[[toc]]
=affirmative= 
aff -- [[mailto:rachel.boroditsky@gmail.com|rachel.boroditsky@gmail.com]]

neg -- [[mailto:sawyer.nathaniel@gmail.com|sawyer.nathaniel@gmail.com]]

=toc 1ac= 
See cps 1ac 
- with nato add-on and korea add-on in sats adv
=state= 
==sunshades== 
==1ac plan text== 
**The United States federal government should deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**
==1ac climate== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is real, anthropogenic, and the largest risk of extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deibel 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Terry L. Deibel, professor of IR at National War College, 2007, Foreign Affairs Strategy, Conclusion: American Foreign</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, there is one major ... existence of life on this planet.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change makes all their impacts inevitable and worse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CNA 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Projected climate change ... including our Guard and Reserve forces.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even 1% risk outweighs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Strom 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Keep in mind that the current ... define what awaits us. The time for action is now.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is past the tipping point</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Duarte 2/6/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Carlos, Director of Oceans Institute at the University of Western Australia, “Teetering on a tipping point” http://theconversation.edu.au/teetering-on-a-tipping-point-dangerous-climate-change-in-the-arctic-5156</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are seeing the first signs of ...managing their dangerous reality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And stopping emission won’t stop rapid climate change</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ANI</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 103-**2010**, http://news.oneindia.in/2010/03/20/ipcchas-underestimated-climate-change-impacts-sayscientis.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">According to Charles H. Greene,.. dangerous climate change," said Green.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only the plan solves warming – other methods fail</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">David G. **Victor et al** **9** is a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University. March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Each year, the effects of climate change ... 1940s and 1950s dreamed of doing.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan effectively reverses the inevitable doubling of CO2 – space is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Angel 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Roger, an astronomer and optics expert at the University of Arizona, “Feasibility of cooling the Earth with a cloud of small spacecraft near the inner Lagrange point (L1)” http://www.pnas.org/content/103/46/17184.full.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Projections by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are for global temperature to rise between 1.5 and 4.5°C by 2100 (1), but recent studies suggest a larger range of ... covers and thus cools the entire planet.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Glacial melting triggers sudden onset disasters and mass migrations throughout Southeast Asia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nesheim ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Research Intern @ Refugee Council U.S.A. CONCEPTUALIZING CLIMATE CHANGE MIGRATION: A LITERATURE REVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF THE STATE OF THE FIELD AND ITS IMPLICATIONS, EMILY NESHEIM, APRIL 2009 http://repository01.lib.tufts.edu:8080/fedora/get/tufts:UA015.012.075.00001/bdef:TuftsPDF/getPDF</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While these scientific studies focus on ... threaten the livelihoods of billions.”35</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That causes broader instability and conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Simon **Tay** and Phir Paungmalit, Singapore Institute of International Affairs, “Climate Change and Security In the Asia-Pacific,” Conference Paper Prepared for the 2nd Tokyo Seminar on Common Security Challenges, 26 March **2010**, google</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Environmentally induced displacement and migration ... discussion scenario around the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Migrants will flock to the Middle East – increases wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CNA 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Middle East has always been associated with two ... economic disruption, and armed conflict is great.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And Asian nuclear war escalates globally</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Landay, 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins at the heavily fortified ... according to the Commerce Department.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Middle east war goes global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stirling 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Governor & Lord Lieutenant of Canada, Lord High Admiral of Nova Scotia, & B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies (The Earl of Stirling, “General Middle East War Nears - Syrian events more dangerous than even nuclear nightmare in Japan”, http://europebusines.blogspot.com/2011/03/general-middle-east-war-nears-syrian.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Saddam Hussein's military had prepared what it called the survive ...the global use of Advanced Biological Warfare.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biological weapons cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ochs, 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction... extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Syrian chemical attack will snowball into nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Strategic Analysis, 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Syrian chemical arsenal ... for a nuclear Armageddon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change makes resource wars inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CNA 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To live in stability, human societies…</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">their water scarcity</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Resource wars escalate to global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Caldwell 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – (Ph.d. former director of research and development at the US Army Electronic Proving Ground’s Electromagnetic Environmental Test Facility) (Joseph George Caldwell, PhD, “The End of the World, and the New World Order: The Likelihood of Global Nuclear War” http://www.foundation.bw/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It would appear that …in abundant supply.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change causes internal instability – results in wars in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East and accesses all war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CNA 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Projected climate change poses a serious threat …and the intelligence community</span>

==1ac competitiveness== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transition to alternative energies are coming now – puts the electric grid and the coal industry at risk</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weeks 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Jennifer, writer for the Scientific American “US Electrical grid undergoes massive transition to connect to renewables” http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=what-is-the-smart-grid</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. electrical grid is the largest... when their output fluctuates</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coal is also key to jobs, consumer spending, and output – our evidence is reverse causal</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Adam Z. **Rose**, Ph.D., **and** Dan **Wei**, **6** Professor of Energy, Environmental and Regional Economics, and graduate research assistant, respectively, Department of Geography, The Pennsylvania State University “The Economic Impacts of Coal Utilization and Displacement in the Continental United States, 2015” http://www.coalcandothat.com/images/content/PennState2006UpdateFinal072506.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coal-based electricity generation ... with coal’s favorable price differential effect relative to alternative fuels.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Green and Schrage, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (Michael J., and Stephen P, “It's not just the economy,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Facing the worst economic ... demonstration effect of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coal industry is key to the grid</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zacks 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Zacks Equity Research “Coal Industry Outlook March 11” http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/49167/Coal+Industry+Outlook+%96+March+2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coal Fuels Power Generation: As we ... most abundant fossil fuel in the country.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Power grid outages are the equivalent of an atomic explosion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Latynina ‘3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Yulia, Novaya Gazeta (liberal semi-weekly), Moscow, Russia, Aug. 18, 2003 http://www.worldpress.org/americas/1579.cfm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The scariest thing about... intentionally or by accident.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And the plan solves competitiveness – we’ll isolate three internal links</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a. Plan revitalizes geotechnical industry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NRC 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> National Research Council “Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium: Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation” Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium; Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation, Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The report provides a vision ... new age for geoengineering.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Government investment in the industry is key – solves competitiveness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NSB 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> National Science Board Research and Development: Essential Foundation for U.S. Competitiveness in a Global Economy Arlington, VA (NSB 08-03) | January 2008 http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsb0803/start.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Innovation is a key to economic ... from the breakthroughs made by investigators in other parts of the world. —National Science Board, 1993[7]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b. University education – plan is key to attract students</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NRC 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> National Research Council “Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium: Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation” Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium; Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation, Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The challenges the geoengineering profession... profession and engineering educators should capitalize on these expectations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">University education is key to competitiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">David **Attis 7** is a Senior Consultant at the Advisory Board Company in Washington, DC, where he does best-practices research for higher education institutions “Higher Education and the Future of US Competitiveness” http://www.educause.edu/thetowerandthecloud/PUB7202h</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Competitiveness has become a buzzword ... support American competitiveness.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">c. Aerospace industry – plan attract the workers necessary to revamp the industry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Angel 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Roger, an astronomer and optics expert at the University of Arizona, “Making Sunshades from moon dust” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A global-warming Sun shield is a ... of these critical technical steps.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aerospace industry is key to competitiveness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">National Aerospace Week 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (September 18, ) National Aerospace Week</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the U.S. economy moves through... minorities among our numbers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Declines in competitiveness causes great power wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (Zalmay, 2/8, “The Economy and National Security,” 2-8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We face this domestic challenge while ,,, kind of crisis that we face today.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hegemony deescalates and solves all global nuclear conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kagan, 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [2/7/12, Robert, The World America Made, Master Harvard, Ph.D American U, Columnist for the Washington Post, listed a top 100 public intellectual, p. Amazon Kindle] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The unusual combination of vast power….a more viable option.</span>

==1ac solvency== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are no tech barriers</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Astrobiology Magazine 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (David Tenebaum, “Pies in the Sky: A solution to global warming?” http://www.astrobio.net/exclusive/2309/pies-in-the-sky-a-solution-to-global-warming)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Much more speculative are some ambitious plans ... axis and is spread away into radial spectra.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their disads are non-unique – pilot project was just granted funding</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Telegraph 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “Scientists to stop global warming with 100,000 square mile sun shade” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/environment/globalwarming/4839985/Scientists-to-stop-global-warming-with-100000-square-mile-sun-shade.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr Angel has already secured NASA... for centuries to come," he said.</span>

=2ac -- sunshades= 

==2ac at: esa cp== 
**No nations have the capability to do sunshades**
**CFR 8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Unilateral Geoengineering Non-technical Briefing Notes for a Workshop At the Council on Foreign Relations Washington DC, May 05, 2008 Katharine Ricke, M. Granger Morgan and Jay Apt, Carnegie Mellon David Victor, Stanford John </span><span style="color: #000730; font-size: 10.6667px;">Steinbruner</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, University of Maryland http://www.cfr.org/content/thinktank/GeoEng_041209.pdf</span>
Another space option ... the countervailing capability.

==2ac at: obama good== 
***Plan is SO popular**
**Michaelson 98,** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jay ale Law School, 1997; B.A., Columbia University, 1993. An earlier version of this Article was awarded the 1997 Ambroze Gherini Prize in international law and policy by Yale Law School. Much of the Article was written during a postgraduate summer research fellowship with the Olin Foundation for Law, Economics and Public Policy at Yale Law School **“****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GEOENGINEERING: A CLIMATE CHANGE MANHATTAN PROJECT” </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">http://www.metatronics.net/lit/geo2.html</span>**</span>
Some geoengineering <span class="Underline">proposals</span>,... long term than climate change regulation.

**Geoengineering is politically popular**
**Michaelson 98,** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jay ale Law School, 1997; B.A., Columbia University, 1993. An earlier version of this Article was awarded the 1997 Ambroze Gherini Prize in international law and policy by Yale Law School. Much of the Article was written during a postgraduate summer research fellowship with the Olin Foundation for Law, Economics and Public Policy at Yale Law School **“****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GEOENGINEERING: A CLIMATE CHANGE MANHATTAN PROJECT” </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">http://www.metatronics.net/lit/geo2.html</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">From a policy perspective--which is the primary ... affect the climate directly--a Climate Change Manhattan Project-- can work.</span>

==2ac at: "weaponization"== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">China and US weather modification now – perceptions should have been triggered and no tech for military uses</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lele 9</span>** (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ajey, Writer @ The Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, "China's Experiments with Weather Modification: A Cause for Concern," Oct 12th, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http]]://[[http://www.idsa.in/idsastrategiccomments/ChinasExperimentswithWeatherModification_ALele_121009|www.idsa.in/idsastrategiccomments/ChinasExperimentswithWeatherModification_ALele_121009]],)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">China’s weather modification ...weather modification actions. To begin with it could sign and ratify the ENMOD Convention.</span>

**HAARP has military modification uses**
Begich 6 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Nick, Former President – Anchorage Council of Education and Author – “Angels Don’t Play this HAARP”, “The Military’s Pandora’s Box”, New York Sky Watch, 2-4, http://newyorkskywatch.com/2009/03/31/new-york-skywatch-march-30-2009/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The military failed to tell the public that ... through earthquakes and volcanic action. Feverish Earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One might compare the abnormal ...energy level of charged particles.</span>

**Even if other nations geo-engineer the result is cooperation – checks the impact**
**Victor**, David **8** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Stanford University and Council on Foreign Relations p</span><span class="st" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">rofessor at the School of International Relations and Pacific Studies and co-director of the School's new Laboratory on International Law</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “On the Regulation of Geoengineering” http://www.kysq.org/docs/322.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Such a scenario needs attention ... the dismantling of geoengineering systems.</span>
==debris== 
==1ac middle east== 
**Runaway debris makes the use of Earth’s orbit __impossible__ for everyone – the plan is key**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Currently, </span>the highest spatial densities of space ...conclusions using its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).

**All middle eastern satellites will get knocked out**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">U</span>.S. Congress**, Office of Technology Assessment, //Orbiting Debris: A Space Environmental Problem-Background Paper, OTA-BP-ISC-72// (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, September **1990**).
Orbiting Debris: A Space Environmental Problem, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.fas.org/ota/reports/9033.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These efforts, though extremely </span>... their satellites will be placed at risk in these orbits.</span>

<span class="story">**Satellites increase transparency between Middle East nations – prevents miscalculation and diffuses conflict** </span>
Gerald M. **Steinberg 1** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Director, Program on Conflict Resolution and Negotiation and BESA Center for Strategic Studies “Commercial Observation Satellites in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf” http://faculty.biu.ac.il/~steing/conflict/SatellitePapers/commericalsatellitesinME&PG.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In discussions and analysis of</span> high-resolution... is likely to be limited.<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_edn2|[ii]]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[3]</span>

**Israeli spy satellites serve as a deterrent to Iran and Syria war**
**Galace 07** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Peter I. Galace, Asia Editor for SatMagazine, writes extensively on telecommunications developments in Asia for numerous, international publications, “Sword from the Heavens,” MilSat Magazine, October 2007, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1142246531)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">By offering a “god’s-eye view” of surface activity ...missile</span>in its military configuration.

**Israel Syria war results in nuclear annihilation**
**Joshi, 2k** - Post-Doctoral Fellow @ the Center for Non-Proliferation (Joshi, “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA, Vol XXII, No 12. 2000, EBSCO)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Arab WMD Development A common argument is that the ... freedom of military movement and civilian morale.</span>

**Iran Israel war escalates globally**
Hirsch, 5 (Jorge, Professor of Physics – University of California, San Diego, “Can A Nuclear Strike On Iran Be Averted”, 11-21, [[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]]
The Bush administration has ... erase Earth's population many times over.

**Independently satellites are key to monitor and respond to Syrian chemical weapons attacks**
**Oswald 12/7/11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Rachel Oswald, staff writer for Global Security Newswire, “U.S. Closely Monitoring Syria's Chemical Weapons Stockpile,” The Atlantic, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/12/us-closely-monitoring-syrias-chemical-weapons-stockpile/249593/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON--The United States is quietly but ... encompass reconnaissance</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">aircraft and satellites</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**Syrian chemical strike snowballs to nuclear Armageddon**
**Strategic Analysis, 2K** [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html
<span class="Underline">The </span>Syrian chemicalarsenal should ... make the situation particularly grave. Such a scenario would be ripe for a nuclear Armageddon<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Independently satellites improve Israeli operational capabilities**
**IHTI 10** (Israel High-Tech & Investment Report, “Ofek-9 Soars into Space,” July 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://ishitech.co.il/0710ar1.htm</span>)
In this respect satellite ... director of Space Programming at the Defense Ministry Research and Development Directorate (MAFAT).

**That’s key to prevent Middle East War**
William **Wunderle**, a U.S. Army lieutenant colonel, **and** Andre **Briere 8**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a U.S. Air Force lieutenant colonel, are both Middle East political military planners in the Joint Strategic Plans and Policy (J-5) Directorate of the Joint Staff. The authors thank D. Christian Addicott and Maj. Alyssa Drew, U.S. Army, for their advice. “Augmenting Israel’s Qualitative Military Edge” http://www.meforum.org/1824/augmenting-israels-qualitative-military-edge</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Every president since Lyndon Johnson ..development of the Islamic Republic's own</span>. nuclear capacity.

**Middle East conflict causes global nuclear war**
**Steinbach, 2** – Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation (http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Meanwhile, </span>__the existence of an__ **__... a world conflagration."__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(44)</span>

**Independently these capabilities are crucial to preventing water wars – they’re key to effective resource management**
**Prathapar & Bastiaanssen** **2k** (S.A. Prathapar, Associate Professor and the Head at the Department of Soils, Water and Agricultural Engineering, College of Agricultural and Marine Sciences, Sultan Qaboos University, W.G.M. Bastiaanssen, International Water Management Institute, “Satellite Observations of International River Basins for All,” International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Vol. 33, Part B7, 2000, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIII/congress/part7/439_XXXIII-part7.pdf</span>)
Trust and faithin international<span class="Underline"> ... can</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> potentially </span>worsen and trust will fade away.

**Water wars are inevitable and coming now – river basins are key**
**Prathapar & Bastiaanssen** **2k** (S.A. Prathapar, Associate Professor and the Head at the Department of Soils, Water and Agricultural Engineering, College of Agricultural and Marine Sciences, Sultan Qaboos University, W.G.M. Bastiaanssen, International Water Management Institute, “Satellite Observations of International River Basins for All,” International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Vol. 33, Part B7, 2000, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXIII/congress/part7/439_XXXIII-part7.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the moment, one billion people ... </span>conflicts over water are<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> more </span>likely.

**Specifically, satellites stop instability and conflict over the Nile**
**Aboul-Enein 12** (Youssef H. Aboul-Enein, Commander, CDR, MSC, US Navy, “Nile Basin Conflict: Perspectives on Water Sharing, Food Shortages, Civil Wars and Terrorism,” Naval Postgraduate School, January 1, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.nps.edu/Programs/CCS/WebJournal/Article.aspx?ArticleID=101</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Despite rosy </span>projections<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> from UNESCO </span>... with growing demand for water resources.

**Nile water war guarantees global nuclear war – so do global water conflicts**
**Weiner 90** — Professor at Princeton (1990, “The Next 100 Years”, pg. 270)
__If we do not destroy ourselves with the A-bomb____<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...</span> some at the 60.000 nuclear warheads__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the world has stockpiled since Trinity.</span>

**This makes a regional war and Egyptian instability inevitable**
**PPU 91** (Peace Pledge Union, pacifist organization in Britain, “War and the Environment,” most recent date cited, 1991, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ppu.org.uk/learn/infodocs/st_environment.html</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There are fears for war over the </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... to war</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> again </span><span class="Underline">**is water’.** </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Egyptian instability alone guarantees nuclear war </span>
**St. Louis Post Dispatch, 92** (“Early Warnings on the Nile,” p. lexis)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">When fundamentalist Muslims in Egypt ... will need all the help it can get from other countries.</span>

=districts= 
==sunshades== 
==1ac climate== 
//**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Climate change</span>**////**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> is real, anthropogenic, and the largest risk of extinction</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Deibel 7</span>**// (Terry L. Deibel, professor of IR at National War College, 2007, Foreign Affairs Strategy, Conclusion: American Foreign
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Finally, there is one major__ __... existence of life on this planet.__</span>
**Climate change makes all their impacts inevitable and worse**
**CNA 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Projected climate change ... including our Guard and Reserve forces.</span>

**Even 1% risk outweighs**
**Strom 7** (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246) </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Keep in mind that the current ... define what awaits us. The time for action is now.</span>

**Warming is real and accelerating – prefer reverse biased sources**
**Robinson, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [10/25/11. Eugene, opinion, Washington Post, Citing extensively Muller a physicist at UC Berkely, “The scientific finding that settles the climate-change debate”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-scientific-finding-that-settles-the-climate-change-debate/2011/03/01/gIQAd6QfDM_story.html]]] </span>
__For the clueless__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or cynical diehards </span>__... committing an unforgivable fraud.__

<span class="underline0">And glacial melting</span> **triggers** <span class="underline0">sudden onset disasters</span> **and** <span class="underline0">mass migrations</span> **throughout<span class="underline0"> Southeast Asia</span>**
<span class="tagchar">**Nesheim ‘9**</span> – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Research Intern @ Refugee Council U.S.A. CONCEPTUALIZING CLIMATE CHANGE MIGRATION: A LITERATURE REVIEW AND ANALYSIS OF THE STATE OF THE FIELD AND ITS IMPLICATIONS, EMILY NESHEIM, APRIL 2009 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://repository01.lib.tufts.edu:8080/fedora/get/tufts:UA015.012.075.00001/bdef:TuftsPDF/getPDF</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While these scientific studies focus on ...</span> threaten <span class="Underline">the livelihoods of </span>billions.”35

**That causes broader instability and conflict**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Simon</span> **Tay** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and Phir Paungmalit, Singapore Institute of International Affairs, “Climate Change and Security In the Asia-Pacific,” Conference Paper Prepared for the 2nd Tokyo Seminar on Common Security Challenges, 26 March </span>**2010**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">google</span>
<span class="Underline">Environmentally induced displacement and migration ... discussion scenario around </span>the world.

**Migrants will flock to the Middle East – increases wars**
**CNA 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Research Publication – Non Profit April, Military Advisory Board, Gordon Sullivan, Former Chief of Staff, “National Security and the threat of climate change” pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Middle East has always been associated with two ... economic disruption, and armed </span>conflict is great.

**And Asian nuclear war escalates globally**
**Landay, 2k** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins at the heavily fortified ... according to the Commerce Department.</span>

**Middle east war goes global**
**Stirling 2011** – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Governor & Lord Lieutenant of Canada, Lord High Admiral of Nova Scotia, & B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies (The Earl of Stirling, “General Middle East War Nears - Syrian events more dangerous than even nuclear nightmare in Japan”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://europebusines.blogspot.com/2011/03/general-middle-east-war-nears-syrian.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Saddam Hussein's military had prepared what it called the survive </span>...the global use<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> of Advanced Biological Warfare. </span>

**Biological weapons cause extinction**
**Ochs, 2** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction... extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

**Syrian chemical attack will snowball into nuclear war**
**Strategic Analysis, 2K** [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html
<span class="Underline">The </span>Syrian <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">chemical </span>arsenal ... for a nuclear Armageddon<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Climate change is past the tipping point**
**Duarte 2/6/12** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Carlos, Director of Oceans Institute at the University of Western Australia, “Teetering on a tipping point” http://theconversation.edu.au/teetering-on-a-tipping-point-dangerous-climate-change-in-the-arctic-5156</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We are seeing the first signs of ...managing </span><span class="Underline">their dangerous reality.</span>

**And stopping emission won’t stop rapid climate change**
**ANI, 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">3-2010, http://news.oneindia.in/2010/03/20/ipcchas-underestimated-climate-change-impacts-sayscientis.html</span>
__According to__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Charles H. </span>__Greene,____..__ dangerous __climate change,"__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> said Green.</span>

==1ac competitiveness== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Declines in competitiveness causes great power wars </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Khalilzad 11 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (Zalmay, 2/8, “The Economy and National Security,” 2-8, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We face this domestic challenge while</span> <span class="Underline">,,, kind of crisis that we face today.</span>

**Aerospace industry is key to competitiveness**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">National Aerospace Week 10</span> (September 18, ) National Aerospace Week
“Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As the U.S. economy moves through... minorities among our numbers</span>.

**University education is key to competitiveness**
//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">David **Attis 7** </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">is a Senior Consultant at the Advisory Board Company in Washington, DC, where he does best-practices research for higher education institutions “Higher Education and the Future of US Competitiveness” http://www.educause.edu/thetowerandthecloud/PUB7202h</span>//
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Competitiveness has become a buzzword ... support American competitiveness</span>.

<span class="Underline">**Economic collapse causes extinction**</span>
**Green and Schrage, 09** - <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (Michael J., and Stephen P, “It's not just the economy,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
__Facing the worst economic__ __...__ demonstration effect of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home.

**Power grid outages are the equivalent of an atomic explosion**
**Latynina ‘3** [Yulia, Novaya Gazeta (liberal semi-weekly), Moscow, Russia, Aug. 18, 2003 <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.worldpress.org/americas/1579.cfm</span>]
__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The scariest thing about</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">... intentionally or by accident</span>.__ </span>

**Coal industry is key to the grid**
**ZACKS 11** Zacks Equity Research “Coal Industry Outlook March 11” http://www.zacks.com/stock/news/49167/Coal+Industry+Outlook+%96+March+2011
Coal Fuels Power Generation: As we ... most abundant fossil fuel in the country.

**Coal is also key to jobs, consumer spending, and output – our evidence is reverse causal**
Adam Z. **Rose**, Ph.D., **and** Dan **Wei**, **6** <span style="font-size: 8px;">Professor of Energy, Environmental and Regional Economics, and graduate research assistant, respectively, Department of Geography, The Pennsylvania State University “The Economic Impacts of Coal Utilization and Displacement in the Continental United States, 2015” http://www.coalcandothat.com/images/content/PennState2006UpdateFinal072506.pdf</span>
Coal-<span class="Underline">based </span>electricity <span class="Underline">generation </span>... with coal’s favorable price differential effect relative to alternative fuels.

**Transition to alternative energies are coming now – puts the electric grid and the coal industry at risk**
**Weeks 10,** Jennifer, writer for the Scientific American “US Electrical grid undergoes massive transition to connect to renewables” http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=what-is-the-smart-grid
The <span class="Underline">U.S. electrical </span>grid is the largest... when their output fluctuates.
==1ac solvency== 
**Only the plan solves warming – other methods fail**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David G</span>. **Victor et al 9** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">is a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University. March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Each year, the effects of climate change ... 1940s and 1950s dreamed of doing.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan effectively reverses the inevitable doubling of CO2 – space is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Angel 6** (Roger, an astronomer and optics expert at the University of Arizona, “</span>Feasibility of cooling the Earth with a cloud of small spacecraft near the inner Lagrange point (L1)” http://www.pnas.org/content/103/46/17184.full.pdf
Projections <span class="Underline">by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are </span>for <span class="Underline">global </span>temperature <span class="Underline">to </span>rise <span class="Underline">between 1.5 and </span>4.5°C <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">by 2100 (1), but recent studies suggest a larger range of ... covers and </span><span class="Underline">thus </span>cools the <span class="Underline">entire </span>planet.

**Plan stops the alternative energy transition and keeps the coal industry alive**
**Randerson 8** James, science and environment writer for the Guardian “Geoengineering no substitute for climate targets” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/nov/18/climatechange-greentech
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Research into drastic solutions to climate fossil fuel </span>...<span class="Underline">power stations</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and injecting it underground</span>.

**And the plan solves competitiveness – we’ll isolate three internal links**
**a. Plan revitalizes geotechnical industry**
**NRC** **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> National Research Council “Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium: Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation” Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium; Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation, Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering pdf </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The repor</span>t <span class="Underline">provides a vision ... new age for geoengineering</span>.

**Government investment in the industry is key – solves competitiveness**
**NSB 8** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">National Science Board Research and Development: Essential Foundation for U.S. Competitiveness in a Global Economy Arlington, VA (NSB 08-03) | January 2008 http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsb0803/start.htm</span>
Innovation is <span class="Underline">a </span>key to <span class="Underline">economic </span>//... from the breakthroughs made by investigators in other parts of the world.//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> —National Science Board, 1993<span style="color: #000000;">[7]</span></span>

**b. University education – plan is key to attract students**
**NRC 6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">National Research Council “Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium: Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation” Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering in the New Millennium; Opportunities for Research and Technological Innovation, Committee on Geological and Geotechnical Engineering pdf </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The challenges the geoengineering profession... profession and engineering educators should capitalize on these expectations.</span>

**c. Aerospace industry – plan attract the workers necessary to revamp the industry**
<span class="Underline">**Angel 6** (</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Roger, an astronomer and optics expert at the University of Arizona, “Making Sunshades from moon dust” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html</span>
A <span class="Underline">global-warming </span>Sun shield <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">is a ... of these critical technical steps.</span>

**We can deploy it**
**Astrobiology Magazine 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(David Tenebaum, “Pies in the Sky: A solution to global warming?” http://www.astrobio.net/exclusive/2309/pies-in-the-sky-a-solution-to-global-warming)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Much more speculative are some ambitious plans ... axis and is spread away into radial spectra.”</span>

**Your disads are non-unique –funding a pilot project for part of the shade**
**Telegraph 9 “**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Scientists to stop global warming with 100,000 square mile sun shade” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/environment/globalwarming/4839985/Scientists-to-stop-global-warming-with-100000-square-mile-sun-shade.html</span>
Dr Angel has <span class="Underline">already </span>secured <span class="Underline">NASA... for centuries to come</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," he said</span>.

==1ac plan== 
**The United States federal government should deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**
=homewood flossmoor= 
==icesat== 
==1ac inherency== 
**Contention one is inherency**

**ICESAT 1 was decommissioned and taken out of the sky – it had 7 years of successful data gathering**
**NASA 10** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, August 17, 2010, http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat/)
The Ice, Cloud, and…<span class="Underline">successful seven years of operations. </span>
==1ac warming== 
**Contention two is warming**

**ICESAT technology is key to obtain critical warming data over the arctic – only the US has the technology**
**CSIS 10** (James Andrew Lewis is a senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS, Sarah Ladislaw is a senior fellow in the Energy and National Security Program at CSIS, where she concentrates on climate change and Denise Zheng, fellow at Tech and Public Policy at CSIS June “Earth Observation for Climate change” http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)
Climate change poses a …serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.

**3 internal links ---**
**a) Emissions**
**Ladislaw et al. 10**– Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program (Sarah O., James Lewis, Denise Zheng, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], June)
<span class="underline0">Satellites provide globally …</span>climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors.

**b) Ice sheet loss**
**Webb et. Al, 10** – W. Abdalati @ Earth Science and Observation Center and Department of Geography, University of Colorado at Boulder, H. J. Zwally, R. Bindschadler, D. Harding, T. Markus, A. Marshak, and T. Neumann @ Science and Exploration Directorate, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, B. Csatho @ Department of Geology, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, S. L. Farrell @ Cooperative Institute for Climate Studies, University of Maryland, College Park, H. A. Fricker @ Scripps Institution of Oceanography, San Diego, R. Kwok @ Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, M. Lefsky @ Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, S. Palm @ Science Systems and Applications Inc., Lanham, B. Schutz and C. Webb @ Center for Space Research, University of Texas at Austin, B. Smith @ Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, J. Spinhirne @ University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ. “The ICESat-2 Laser Altimetry Mission,” v98 no 5, May, [[http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat2/publications/pubs_2010/abdalati_et_al_2010.pdf]], p. 1-2)
Observations from satellites …vegetation biomass through the measurement of vegetation canopy height.

**c) Aerosols**
**NASA 11** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, “ICESAT” , please note that the page was last updated on January 21, 2011, http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat/sciencemis.php)
The distribution of atmospheric …science and global change research.

**The plan results in effective policies**
**CSIS 10** (James Andrew Lewis is a senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS, Sarah Ladislaw is a senior fellow in the Energy and National Security Program at CSIS, where she concentrates on climate change and Denise Zheng, fellow at Tech and Public Policy at CSIS June “Earth Observation for Climate change” http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)
Until this year, America’s civil …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">largest share of the cost at this time.</span>

**US action is key – leadership solves**
**Caperton and Light 10** (Richard, Policy Analyst at Center for American Progress and Andrew, Senior Fellow on the energy opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, “Real Reductions America Can Easily Afford,” June 15, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/real_reductions_apa.html)
EPA modeled three scenarios for global …each year we move forward.

**Warming guarantees extinction**
**Archer et. al, 0****8** (Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September, [[http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]])
This summary intends – rather than…risks in which climate change is only one of the problems.

==1ac arctic== 
**Contention three is the Arctic**

**ICESAT is crucial to monitoring the Arctic – it’s the only model that has a full view necessary for data**
**Renganathan 10** (Vidyavathy Renganathan, MS in Marine Science from University of Southern Mississippi, Philosophy Department of Geomatics Engineering, University of Cagary, “Arctic Sea Ice Freeboard Heights from Satellite Altimetry,” January 2010, http://www.ucalgary.ca/engo_webdocs/AB/10.20301_VRenganathan.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic sea ice…</span>Ice, Cloud, Elevation Satellite

**Arctic biodiversity must be protected – increased monitoring is key to adaptation strategies**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
The Arctic region…particularly high responsibility.

**But more data is key**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
Good governance should…<span class="Underline">are such examples</span>.

**Melting sea ice destroys arctic biodiversity**
**ABT 10** (Arctic Biodiversity Report, Endorsed by the Arctic Council, Janet Hohn, United States Dept. of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska Esko Jaakkola, Finnish Ministry of the Environment, Helsinki, Finland “Arctic Biodiversity Trends” http://www.arcticbiodiversity.is/index.php/en/the-report)
<span class="Underline">Unique Arctic habitats</span>…<span class="Underline">further climate change.</span>

**That spills over globally**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic is viewed ..regions of the globe.</span>

**Biodiversity has an __insurance effect__ – solves extinction**
**Young 10** (Ruth Young, PhD, coastal marine ecology, “Biodiversity: What it is and Why it’s Important”, February 9, 2010, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]])
Different species within ecosystems …biodiversity maintains this service.

**Tolerating the destruction of this ecosystem __saps us of our humanity__—it makes __nuclear war__ and __human extinction__ inevitable.**
**Bookchin 87** (Murray Bookchin, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, “An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)
Industrially <span class="underline0">and technologically…green and living world</span>.

**Just a few degrees will destroy the marine ecosystem – adaption is key**
**NRC 07** (National Research Council 2007 of the National Academies, in association with the Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Sciences, Marine Board, and Transportation Research Board, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs,” p.19-23, http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=19)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic marine …</span>and rescue as needed.

**Marine ecosystem degradation puts humanity on the brink of extinction -- destructions occurring rapidly.**
**Black 11** (Richard, 6/20/11, “World's oceans in 'shocking' decline,” Environmental Correspondent at BBC News, 6-20-2011)
The <span class="underline0">oceans are in a worse…</span>significant <span class="underline0">extinction event</span>**.**"

**Extinction**
**Donahue 11** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>James, 3/7/11, “Pushing The Mother’s Reset Button,” published author of five books, former reporter for The Times Herald, Lexis)
It is no secret …<span class="underline0">planet and ourselves</span>**.**

**Adaption is key to prevent global spillover**
**UNEP 09** (United Nations Environmental Porgramme March “Assessing the impacts of climate change on food security in the Canadian arctic” http://www.grida.no/files/publications/foodsec_updt_LA_lo.pdf)
Understanding, <span class="Underline">adapting</span>, and…2002; Nickels et al. 2002).

==1ac plan text== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should deploy an Ice, Cloud, and Land Elevation Satellite beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**
==1ac solvency== 
**Contention four is solvency**

**There is a critical data gap between now and 2016 – new ICESAT systems are critical for covering the gap**
**Parthemore and Rogers 11 (**ChristineAdjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Will, Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security “Blinded” July http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)
Networks of satellites, ground-based … data collection capabilities.

**Data gaps impede climate management – we need the data now or there is no adaptation**
**Kaltenborn et. al, 10** (“High mountain glaciers and climat change” Bjørn Petter Kaltenborn, Norwegian Institute for Nature Research Christian Nellemann, UNEP/GRID-Arendal Ingunn Ims Vistnes, Norut Alta http://www.grida.no/files/publications/glacier/himalayareport_screen.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Climate change is causing significant … and availability downstream</span>.

**ICESAT is crucial to prevent data gap – any replacement has been delayed**
**NPR 11** (**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">David Biello</span>**, associate editor, environment and energy, Scientific American, 8/26/11, http://www.npr.org/2011/08/26/139972671/noaa-warns-of-gap-in-future-forecasting-abilities)
BIELLO: I would hope so. I mean,…perhaps, politically sensitive
==1ac no war== 
**Our last contention is no great power war**

**a) Statistics, changing warfare, end of the Cold War, and withdrawals**
**Goldstein, 11** — professor emeritus of international relations at American University (Joshua S., “Think Again: War”, Foreign Policy, September/October 2011, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war)
__"The World Is a More__ __..."The tide of war is receding."__

**b) Economics, globalization, nuclear weapons**
**Deudney, 09** professor of political science @ John Hopkins, and Ikenberry, professor of international affairs @ Princeton, (Daniel and John, Foreign Affairs, January/February)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of ... is</span><span class="underline"> far </span>more primed for peace<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>
=berkeley= 
==icesat== 
==1ac inherency== 
**Contention one is inherency**

**ICESAT 1 was decommissioned and taken out of the sky – it had 7 years of successful data gathering**
**NASA 10** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, August 17, 2010, http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat/)
The Ice, Cloud, and…<span class="Underline">successful seven years of operations. </span>
==1ac warming== 
**Contention two is warming**

**ICESAT technology is key to obtain critical warming data over the arctic – only the US has the technology**
**CSIS 10** (James Andrew Lewis is a senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS, Sarah Ladislaw is a senior fellow in the Energy and National Security Program at CSIS, where she concentrates on climate change and Denise Zheng, fellow at Tech and Public Policy at CSIS June “Earth Observation for Climate change” http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)
Climate change poses a …serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.

**4 internal links ---**
**a) Emissions**
**Ladislaw et al. 10**– Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program (Sarah O., James Lewis, Denise Zheng, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], June)
<span class="underline0">Satellites provide globally …</span>climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors.

**b) Ice sheet loss**
**Webb et. Al, 10** – W. Abdalati @ Earth Science and Observation Center and Department of Geography, University of Colorado at Boulder, H. J. Zwally, R. Bindschadler, D. Harding, T. Markus, A. Marshak, and T. Neumann @ Science and Exploration Directorate, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, B. Csatho @ Department of Geology, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, S. L. Farrell @ Cooperative Institute for Climate Studies, University of Maryland, College Park, H. A. Fricker @ Scripps Institution of Oceanography, San Diego, R. Kwok @ Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, M. Lefsky @ Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, S. Palm @ Science Systems and Applications Inc., Lanham, B. Schutz and C. Webb @ Center for Space Research, University of Texas at Austin, B. Smith @ Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, J. Spinhirne @ University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ. “The ICESat-2 Laser Altimetry Mission,” v98 no 5, May, [[http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat2/publications/pubs_2010/abdalati_et_al_2010.pdf]], p. 1-2)
Observations from satellites …vegetation biomass through the measurement of vegetation canopy height.

**c) Vegetation**
**Gage 10** (Deborah, entrepreneurial senior executive with a technology and information industry focus. She has expertise with business start-ups and venture financing and has demonstrated track record building value for investors. “Scientist gets climate data off NASA satellite before it dies”, July 22nd, [[http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/thinking-tech/scientist-gets-climate-data-off-nasa-satellite-before-it-dies/4821]])
An assistant professor at Colorado …55 inches in this one if carbon dioxide-induced global warming isn’t slowed.

**d) Aerosols**
**NASA 11** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, “ICESAT” , please note that the page was last updated on January 21, 2011, http://icesat.gsfc.nasa.gov/icesat/sciencemis.php)
The distribution of atmospheric …science and global change research.

**The plan results in effective policies**
**CSIS 10** (James Andrew Lewis is a senior fellow and director of the Technology and Public Policy Program at CSIS, Sarah Ladislaw is a senior fellow in the Energy and National Security Program at CSIS, where she concentrates on climate change and Denise Zheng, fellow at Tech and Public Policy at CSIS June “Earth Observation for Climate change” http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)
Until this year, America’s civil …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">largest share of the cost at this time.</span>

**US action is key – leadership solves**
**Caperton and Light 10** (Richard, Policy Analyst at Center for American Progress and Andrew, Senior Fellow on the energy opportunity team at the Center for American Progress, “Real Reductions America Can Easily Afford,” June 15, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/real_reductions_apa.html)
EPA modeled three scenarios for global …each year we move forward.

**Warming guarantees extinction**
**Archer et. al, 0****8** (Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September, [[http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]])
This summary intends – rather than…risks in which climate change is only one of the problems.

==1ac arctic== 
**Contention three is the Arctic**

**Data gaps make arctic monitoring failure inevitable**
**Johnston 06** (Shaida Sahami, Ph.D., The George Washington University, 2006 “Space in Environmental Diplomacy: Exploring the role of earth observing satellites for monitoring international environmental agreements” http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/dissertations.cfm)
<span class="Underline">Successful monitoring of international…</span>presented at all.

**But the aff can solve the gap – allows for effective sustainment and implementation of international Arctic treaties**
**Johnston 06** (Shaida Sahami, Ph.D., The George Washington University, 2006 “Space in Environmental Diplomacy: Exploring the role of earth observing satellites for monitoring international environmental agreements” http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/dissertations.cfm)
<span class="Underline">Science data products generated…health of whale populations</span>47.

**This prevents Arctic war**
**Winokur 11** (Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of Robert Winokur Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy Before the House Committee on Science & Technology on NOAA’s Climate Service Proposal” <span class="Underline">http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore</span>)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic is</span> one example…the Panama Canal.

**Global nuclear war**
**Staples 09** (Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute, “Steps Toward an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone,” August 10, 2009, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is … or use of nuclear weapons.”

**ICESAT is crucial to monitoring the Arctic – it’s the only model that has a full view necessary for data**
**Renganathan 10** (Vidyavathy Renganathan, MS in Marine Science from University of Southern Mississippi, Philosophy Department of Geomatics Engineering, University of Cagary, “Arctic Sea Ice Freeboard Heights from Satellite Altimetry,” January 2010, http://www.ucalgary.ca/engo_webdocs/AB/10.20301_VRenganathan.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic sea ice…</span>Ice, Cloud, Elevation Satellite

**Arctic biodiversity must be protected – increased monitoring is key to adaptation strategies**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
The Arctic region…particularly high responsibility.

**But more data is key**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
Good governance should…<span class="Underline">are such examples</span>.

**Melting sea ice destroys arctic biodiversity**
**ABT 10** (Arctic Biodiversity Report, Endorsed by the Arctic Council, Janet Hohn, United States Dept. of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska Esko Jaakkola, Finnish Ministry of the Environment, Helsinki, Finland “Arctic Biodiversity Trends” http://www.arcticbiodiversity.is/index.php/en/the-report)
<span class="Underline">Unique Arctic habitats</span>…<span class="Underline">further climate change.</span>

**That spills over globally**
**UNEP 10** (United Nations Environmental Programme, “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity,” 2010, http://www.grida.no/files/publications/arctic-biodiv/arcticMEAreport_screen.pdf)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic is viewed ..regions of the globe.</span>

**Biodiversity has an __insurance effect__ – solves extinction**
**Young 10** (Ruth Young, PhD, coastal marine ecology, “Biodiversity: What it is and Why it’s Important”, February 9, 2010, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]])
Different species within ecosystems …biodiversity maintains this service.

**Tolerating the destruction of this ecosystem __saps us of our humanity__—it makes __nuclear war__ and __human extinction__ inevitable.**
**Bookchin 87** (Murray Bookchin, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, “An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)
Industrially <span class="underline0">and technologically…green and living world</span>.

**Just a few degrees will destroy the marine ecosystem – adaption is key**
**NRC 07** (National Research Council 2007 of the National Academies, in association with the Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Sciences, Marine Board, and Transportation Research Board, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs,” p.19-23, http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=19)
<span class="Underline">The Arctic marine …</span>and rescue as needed.

**Marine ecosystem degradation puts humanity on the brink of extinction -- destructions occurring rapidly.**
**Black 11** (Richard, 6/20/11, “World's oceans in 'shocking' decline,” Environmental Correspondent at BBC News, 6-20-2011)
The <span class="underline0">oceans are in a worse…</span>significant <span class="underline0">extinction event</span>**.**"

**Extinction**
**Donahue 11** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(</span>James, 3/7/11, “Pushing The Mother’s Reset Button,” published author of five books, former reporter for The Times Herald, Lexis)
It is no secret …<span class="underline0">planet and ourselves</span>**.**

**Adaption is key to prevent global spillover**
**UNEP 09** (United Nations Environmental Porgramme March “Assessing the impacts of climate change on food security in the Canadian arctic” http://www.grida.no/files/publications/foodsec_updt_LA_lo.pdf)
Understanding, <span class="Underline">adapting</span>, and…2002; Nickels et al. 2002).

**The aff’s scientific monitoring independently upholds US presence and credibility for treaties**
**NRC 07** (National Research Council 2007 of the National Academies, in association with the Polar Research Board, Division on Earth and Life Sciences, Marine Board, and Transportation Research Board, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs,” p.19-23, http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=19)
Today the Antarctic Treaty System2 is…associated outlying field sites.

**This is key to ensure compliance – failure guarantees a proliferation of arctic mining**
**Floren 01** (David W. Floren, Fall 2001, J.D. University of Oregon, “Antarctic Mining Regimes: An Appreciation of the Attainable,” Journal of Environmental Law and Litigation, 16(2), 467-513)
Compliance with treaty provisions…strength of the treaty.

**This makes miscalc and nuclear incentives inevitable – creates unique military targets**
**Floren 01** (David W. Floren, Fall 2001, J.D. University of Oregon, “Antarctic Mining Regimes: An Appreciation of the Attainable,” Journal of Environmental Law and Litigation, 16(2), 467-513)
<span class="Underline">Concern for the quality of…slated for destruction or seizure</span>.

**Extinction**
**Anderson 06** (Philip W. Anderson, Nobel prize-winning physicist, along with 13 other physicists, all Nobel, Wolf, Fields, or Boltzman prize winners, “Nuclear Option Off the Table!” April 17, 2006, http://physics.ucsd.edu/petition/DCflyer.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Using or even merely threatening…</span>voices heard on this matter.
==1ac plan text== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of the Ice, Cloud, and Land Elevation Satellite beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**
==1ac solvency== 
**Contention four is solvency**

**There is a critical data gap between now and 2016 – new ICESAT systems are critical for covering the gap**
**Parthemore and Rogers 11 (**ChristineAdjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Will, Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security “Blinded” July http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)
Networks of satellites, ground-based … data collection capabilities.

**Data gaps impede climate management – we need the data now or there is no adaptation**
**Kaltenborn et. al, 10** (“High mountain glaciers and climat change” Bjørn Petter Kaltenborn, Norwegian Institute for Nature Research Christian Nellemann, UNEP/GRID-Arendal Ingunn Ims Vistnes, Norut Alta http://www.grida.no/files/publications/glacier/himalayareport_screen.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Climate change is causing significant … and availability downstream</span>.

**ICESAT is crucial to prevent data gap – any replacement has been delayed**
**NPR 11** (**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">David Biello</span>**, associate editor, environment and energy, Scientific American, 8/26/11, http://www.npr.org/2011/08/26/139972671/noaa-warns-of-gap-in-future-forecasting-abilities)
BIELLO: I would hope so. I mean,…perhaps, politically sensitive.
=2ac -- icesat= 
==2ac at: topicality substantial== 
**1. We meet – spin off tech**
**NRC 07** (National Research Council, Includes Panel on Earth Science Applications and Societal Benefits, Panel on Land Use change, Ecosystem Dynamics, and Biodiversity, Panel on Weather Science and Applications, Panel on Climate Variability and Change, Panel On Human Health and Security, Panel on Water Resources, Panel on Solid Earth Hazards, Natural Resources and Dynamics “Earth Science and Applications from Space” pdf)
II current climate projections …creating new public and private partnerships.

**2. Counter interpretation – development refers to NASA development programs – the aff needs to increase one of them**
**GAO 10** – US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf)
NASA development …the current suite of missions.

**3. No definition of substantial—their interp is arbitrary**
David **Jakubowitz 2004** * J.D. Candidate, St. John's University School of Law, NOTE: "HELP, I'VE FALLEN AND CAN'T GET UP!" NEW YORK'S APPLICATION OF THE SUBSTANTIAL FACTOR TEST, Spring, 2004 18 St. John's J.L. Comm. 593 lexis
As a consequence, no clear legal standard …of how causation is analyzed. n135

**Substantial is $3 million**
**Atkinson**, space/science journalist, **2008** [Nancy Atkinson, University Returns $3 Million in Savings to NASA, June 17th 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/15119/university-returns-3-million-in-savings-to-nasa/ 6-29-11,]
Here’s something you don’t read …back to NASA.”

**Substantial is 500 million**
**Chase**, Executive Director of National Space Society, **2003** [Brian Chase, “The Columbia Investigation” [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume15/v15n2/contents/v15n2f1.pdf%20March%202003|http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume15/v15n2/contents/v15n2f1.pdf March 2003]], 6-29-11]
The Columbia was lost just …$15.5 billion in FY04.

**Their author can’t even make up his mind - proves how arbitrary their interp is**
**Alexander, 07** (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “NASA Mars Program Threatened by Senate Funding Bill,” July 3, 2007 from [[@http://planetary.org/news/2007/0703_NASA_Mars_Program_Threatened_by_Senate.html]])
The Senate bill proposes …request for 2008.

==2ac at: elections da== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Obama will lose</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hill, 2-7</span>-12 – David, PhD, Pollster with decades of experience, “Obama’s ‘resurgence’ is temporary,” The Hill, [[http://thehill.com/opinion/columnists/david-hill/209313-obamas-resurgence-is-temporary]].
Since stating here …It’s a fantasy.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Obama loses – we control all 7 key pieces of data</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kondracke, 1-19</span>-12 – Morton, Exec Editor @ Roll Call, “With Help From Foes, Obama Is off the Mat, Roll Call,” [[http://www.rollcall.com/issues/57_81/with_help_from_foes_obama_off_the_mat_truman_strategy-211582-1.html]].
At the moment, Obama is running about even with Romney …the result of trouble in Europe — will hurt.

**Swing states break for the** **GOP – even if Obama wins the popular vote, he’ll lose the EC**
**JEN, 12-31** – Japan Economic Newswire, “Obama has fifty-fifty chance to win 2nd-term: expert,” lexis
The prospects for President Barack Obama …he generated during the 2008 campaign," Calder said.

**Economic issues outweigh**
**Zito, 1-1** – Salena, “Obama's support faltering in Iowa,” Pittsburgh Tribune Review, LexisNexis
The Hawkeye State began Obama's …for them to turn out and vote for him.

**ICESAT 1 was approved year after year even under budgetary pressures – means the plan doesn’t link**
Greg **Williams**, NASA Headquarters **9 “**A Washington Parable: EOS in the Context of Mission to Planet Earth” http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/for_scientists/earth_observer_view.php?id=18
As early as 1982, NASA …the Active Cavity Radiometer Irradiance Monitor on ACRIMSAT in December.

**Plan is popular – makes Obama win**
**Zubryd 11** (July 7, Woods Institute for the Envrionment “Talking green can help candidates win votes, study finds” http://woods.stanford.edu/research/climate-politics.html)
Political candidates get more votes… [[http://woods.stanford.edu/research/state-surveys.html|statewide telephone surveys conducted in Florida, Maine and Massachusetts in July 2010]].

==2ac at: esa cp== 
**1. Nasa must take the lead – key scientific capabilities**
**NRC 2007** National Research Council, Includes Panel on Earth Science Applications and Societal Benefits, Panel on Land Use change, Ecosystem Dynamics, and Biodiversity, Panel on Weather Science and Applications, Panel on Climate Variability and Change, Panel On Human Health and Security, Panel on Water Resources, Panel on Solid Earth Hazards, Natural Resources and Dynamics “Earth Science and Applications from Space” pdf
Space-based exploration ….global coverage of Landsat-like observations.

**2. Only the US can translate the data**
**Parthemore and Rogers 11** ChristineAdjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Will, Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security “Blinded” July http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf
Policymakers have known about …Arctic to treaty verification.

**3. ESA has __tried__ and __failed__ with ICESAT capabilities – they can’t solve**
**ENS 05** [Environment News Service, online environmental publication. 10/10/05. “CryoSat Launch Failure Dumps Ice-Monitoring Satellite in the Sea.” ENS. Accessed 8/21/11 //TD]
PARIS, France, October 10, 2005 (ENS) …icy waters it would have monitored for the next three years.
=cps round robin= 
==space debris== 
==1ac plan text== 
**The United States federal government should deploy ground based lasers to decrease space debris.**
==1ac inherency== 
**Debris destroys and short-circuits satellites**
**Natalie 10** (Pusey, Natalie, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)
Space debris causes a variety of … ground-based astronomical observation.

**30 new NASA projects were just funded including debris air guns**
**VOA 11** (Voice of America, “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis, 8/9/11)
NASA, the U.S. space agency, has awarded $3 …. hope of eventually integrating them into a future space mission.
==1ac military== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have reached a tipping point – space debris is increasing exponentially due to chain reactions and will destroy satellites</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Efforts over the past two decades to …from another country’s spacecraft.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This collapses terrestrial and sea power – plus makes bioterrorism inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AMS 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">National Security. Today's sophisticated military…and trigger mass migrations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered**…**potential damage bioweapons could cause.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris collapses the military – immediately invites global nuclear aggression and nuclear terrorism </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">–</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">both escalate </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imburgia 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to ….imperiled, if not forever lost.172</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And hegemony ensures coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline,…unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barnett 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas Barnett**,** American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review, 9/19/11, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and…Soviet threat disappeared.</span>

**Heg collapse causes extinction**
**Brzezinski 12** (Zbigniew, Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For </span>if America falters<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the world is..., it is imperative that the United States pursue a new, timely strategic vision for its foreign policy -- or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.</span>

**Hegemony is vital to preventing great power wars – it’s sustainable if the US maintains comparative military advantages**
**Kagan 12** (Robert Kagan, 1-17-12 – Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline,” Originally at TNR, Republished in Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0117_us_power_kagan.aspx]])
<span class="Underline">Is the United States in … </span>moment has not yet arrived.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently collapses the navy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Matthew John Dillon, Lieutenant, United States Navy, B.A., California State University, “Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces,” Naval Postgraduate School, September 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488669)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C. UNITED STATES SPACE ASSETS … communications, real time measurements (GPS).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Naval power solves all conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">England et. al, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">All our citizens, and especially … the challenges of the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debris destroys capabilities that are key to vessel tracking in the Arctic is key – this prevents Arctic war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jim Hodges, “Commanding the Arctic,” C4ISR Journal, March 1, 2011, http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=5508063)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It was simpler during the … in Parliament want to reduce.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The data also prevents war – loss of observation capabilities destabilizes the region</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winokur 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal” http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Arctic is one example … than through the Panama Canal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Staples 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute, “Steps Toward an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone,” August 10, 2009, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The fact is, the Arctic is … or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>
==1ac disease== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are vital for halting the avian flu</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harmon 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks,” 8/24, http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rather than searching for weird … flu by estimating where the birds would be.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plus they monitor migratory routes and the spread of the flu</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deborah 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Founder of Climate of Our Future, a non-profit environmental news source, “Satellite Technology Targets Disease Hotspots for Avian Influenza,” 4-19, http://climateofourfuture.org/satellite-technology-targets-disease-hotspots-for-avian-influenza/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wildlife Trust http://www.wildlifetrust.org, the global conservation health organization, recently launched a multi-… to predict and prevent disease threats at the animal-human-ecosystem interface.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is global pandemic catastrophe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greger 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A pandemic today could be many times … We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>
==1ac india== 
**Runaway debris makes the use of Earth’s orbit __impossible__ for everyone – the plan is key**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Currently, </span>the highest spatial densities of space debris are in<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ...The European Space Agency (ESA) has come to similar conclusions using its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>

**Specifically, India’s uniquely threatened**
**Shashwat 09** (Senior Assistant Editor, Dataquest, “Space Debris a Concern: ISRO Chief,” February 15, 2009, <span style="color: #000000;">http://shashwatdc.com/2009/02/space-debris-a-concern-isro-chief/</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Recently, when I spoke to </span>ISRO chairman<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> G Madhavan </span>... including the upcoming ones from ISRO.

**But India is increasing military satellite capability now – deters new threats and is key to intel gathering**
**Jaramillo et. al, 10** (Cesar Jaramillo, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, “Space Security 2010,” Space Security, August 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://swfound.org/media/29039/space%20security%20index%202010%20full%20report.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) begins to develop ... </span>The Air Force’s<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> dedicated </span>surveillance satellite<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is scheduled to launch in late 2010 and </span>will have<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> both </span>military<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and civilian </span>uses.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>

**These intel satellites are key to prevent conflict – satellites maintain mutual deterrence and prevent preemption by providing key military intel**
**Su 10** (Jinyuan Su, The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.macalester.edu/internationalstudies/Su%202010.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nothing of what the states now possess in outer space will be ...constrained or limited in terms of research, development, testing, production, storage, deployment or operations.59 </span>

**ISRO satellites are the foundation of their military intelligence and also provide treaty verification which promotes diplomacy and diffuses regional tensions**
**Chriqui 06** (Jacob Chriqui, research intern, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “Military Applications of India’s Space Program: The Military Surveillance and Reconnaissance System,” June 20, 2006, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ipcs.org/article/military/military-applications-of-indias-space-program-the-military-surveillance-and-2043.html</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the same time, </span>India's space program has the ... disarmament of existing stockpile.

**India’s increase in intel satellites is the vital internal link into surveillance of Pakistan’s military activities – key to deter war**
**Eurasia Review 11** (Eurasia Review, Masood-Ur-Rehman Khattak, Research Fellow at South Asian Strategic Stability Institute, “Indian Military’s Space Program: Implications For Pakistan – Analysis,” http://www.eurasiareview.com/10062011<span style="color: #000000;">-indian-military%E2%80%99s-space-program-implications-for-pakistan-analysis/</span>)
<span class="Underline">Military space satellites are used both for peacetime ...edge in any future conflict or war against Pakistan. </span>

**Extinction**
**GSN 10** (Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” 3/16/2010, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Computer </span>__modeling suggests a nuclear exchange____...__ climatology professor at Rutgers University in New Jersey, and Owen Brian Toon, head of the Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder

**India’s intelligence satellites are also key to information deterrence against China advancing in Tibet – provides early warning and key intel**
**Chriqui 06** (Jacob Chriqui, research intern, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “Military Applications of India’s Space Program: The Military Surveillance and Reconnaissance System,” June 20, 2006, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ipcs.org/article/military/military-applications-of-indias-space-program-the-military-surveillance-and-2043.html</span>)
India's satellite intelligence capabilities...Tibet and India, thereby aiding the deployment of Indian forces in time to counter any movement of Chinese troops.

**Global nuclear war**
**Kahn 9** (Jeremy, Pew International Journalism Fellow – Johns Hopkins University and Former Managing Editor – New Republic, “Why India Fears China”, Newsweek, 10-10, http://www.newsweek.com/id/217088)
__China claims__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> some </span>__90,000__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> square </span>__kilometers of Indian__ __...__ close to the border. Both politically and culturally, these monasteries are seen as key nodes in the Tibetan resistance to Chinese authority.
==1ac russia== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks accidental nuclear war with Russia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeffrey Lewis, postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two … is corrosive to the con•dence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The mere perception triggers conflict – satellite failure would collapse trust and exacerbate tensions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Lt. Colonel; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OF US SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, June 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite …, this is already beginning to occur.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many … their weapons off ready-alert status. Presidents Obama and Medvedev can do this on their own by executive order.</span>
==1ac solvency== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A single laser facility could solve all debris in three years</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Economist 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The real threat now comes … this size in three years.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most dangerous pieces of … using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36).</span>

**The plan solves without triggering the link to space mil**
**Ackerman, 11** (Evan, “NASA wants to blast space junk with lasers from the ground”, 3/14/2011, http://dvice.com/archives/2011/03/nasa-wants-to-b-1.php, JT)
Rogue space junk poses a serious threat to both….system could even pay for itself by being used for fuel-free orbital adjustments to existing satellites designed to absorb laser blasts.

**We can track the debris now – we just can’t dispose of it**
**NRC 11** (National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)
Orbital debris and meteoroids <span class="Underline">less than 10 cm….</span>for the satellite catalog is about 1 m.

**Their weaponization links aren’t about the plan – no potential as an ASAT**
**Cowen 11** (Ron Cowen, – “Laser proposed to deflect space junk ,” Science News, 3-22, http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/71534/description/Laser_proposed_to_deflect_space_junk_)
It won’t prevent Armageddon, but….for the system to be effective.
=emory= 
==space debris== 
==1ac plan text== 
**The United States federal government should deploy ground based lasers in order to decrease space debris.**
==1ac inherency== 
**We have reached a __tipping point__ – space debris is increasing __exponentially__ due to __chain reactions__ and will destroy satellites**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Efforts </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over the past two decades to ... debris from another country’s spacecraft.</span>

**Even small debris short circuits satellites**
**Natalie 10** (Pusey, Natalie, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)
Space debris causes a variety of … ground-based astronomical observation<span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span>

**30 new NASA projects were just funded including debris air guns**
**VOA 11** (Voice of America, “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis, 8/9/11)
NASA, the U.S. space agency, has awarded $3 …. hope of eventually integrating them into a future space mission.
==1ac japan isr== 
**Runaway debris makes the use … everyone – the plan is key**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])
Currently, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the highest spatial densities … </span>own predictive models (ESA 2009a).

**Specifically Japan**
**Haines 11** (Lester Haines, “Japan Plans Space Debris Fishing Trip,” The Register, 2/1/11, http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/02/01/space_debris/)
The<span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan</span> Aerospace Exploration Agency(… <span style="text-decoration: none;">damage to spacecraft and satellites.</span>

**But Japan has shifted towards high-precision satellite capabilities**
**Manriquez 08** (Manuel Manriquez, EANP Intern at Monterey Institute of International Studies**,** “Japan’s Space Law Revision: the Next Step Toward Re-Militarization?” Nuclear Threat Initiative, January 1, 2008, http://www.nti.org/analysis/articles/japans-space-law-revision/)
On June 20, 2007, 11 members of Japan's … pacifist principle of Japan's Constitution."

**These satellite capabilities are vital to preventing conflict**
**a) Mutual deterrence**
**Su 10** (Jinyuan Su, The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” http://www.macalester.edu/internationalstudies/Su%202010.pdf)
Nothing of what the states … , production, storage, deployment or operations.59

**b) Deterrence**
**Pacific Forum 09** (Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Expectations Out of Sync: The Second U.S.-Japan Strategic Dialogue,” Issues and Insights, Vol. 9, No. 12, June 2009, http://csis.org/files/publication/issuesinsights_v09n12.pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Japanese military capability is an … </span>of the F-22 – should be swift.

**c) Regional security**
**Shigetaka et. al, 10** (Shigetaka Sato, CEO, Keihan Electric Railway Co., Takashi Shiraishi, President, Japan External Trade Organization, Yasunari Ito, Former Administrative Vice Minister of Defense, Yoko Iwama, Professor, National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, Yoshihide Soeya, Professor, Faculty of Law, Keio University, Hiroshi Nakanishi, Professor, Graduate School of Law, Kyoto University, Tadashi Yamamoto, President, Japan Center for International Exchange, “Japan’s Visions for Future Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era: Toward a Peace<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Creating Nation,” The Council on Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era, August 2010, http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/shin-ampobouei2010/houkokusyo_e.pdf)
Operating <span style="text-decoration: none;">defense capabilities</span> in peacetime <span style="text-decoration: none;">… </span>reinforcement of Japan’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">information security.</span>

**The impact is global nuclear war – instability quickly escalates because of miscalc**
**Landay 2k** (Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)
The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department.

**Independently, satellites are critical to Japanese ISR capabilities**
**a) Data processing**
**Beers 09** (Andy Beers, MilSat Magazine, Thrane & Thrane, November 2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Swiftbroadband For UAVs”, MilSat Magazine, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=969668068&method=print)
Core to the success of … the safety of ground forces.

**b) Command and control**
**Kaneda et. al, 07** (Hideaki Kaneda, former Vice Admiral of Japan's Defense Forces, is Director of the Okazaki Institute, Kazumasa Kobayashi, Hiroshi Tajima, Hirofumi Tosaki, “Japan’s Missile Defense Diplomatic and Security Policies In a Changing Strategic Environment,” March 2007, The Japan Institute of International Affairs, http://www2.jiia.or.jp/en/pdf/polcy_report/pr200703-jmd.pdf)
In this sense, the introduction … <span style="text-decoration: none;">ballistic missiles on mobile launchers.</span>

**That’s key to prevent North Korean and Chinese escalation**
**Cronin and Giarra 10** (Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program, Paul S. Giarra, President of Global Strategies & Transformation and a retired navy Commander, “Robotic Skies Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and the Strategic Defense of Japan,” Center for a New American Security, December 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Robotic%20Skies_CroninGiarra.pdf)
The People’s Liberation Army is … a more comprehensive Japanese ISR capability.

**Independently, satellites alone are key to North Korean missile detection**
**Kaneda et. al, 07** (Hideaki Kaneda, former Vice Admiral of Japan's Defense Forces, is Director of the Okazaki Institute, Kazumasa Kobayashi, Hiroshi Tajima, Hirofumi Tosaki, “Japan’s Missile Defense Diplomatic and Security Policies In a Changing Strategic Environment,” March 2007, The Japan Institute of International Affairs, http://www2.jiia.or.jp/en/pdf/polcy_report/pr200703-jmd.pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Upon North Korea’s Taepo Dong … , track and identify ballistic missiles.</span>

**Detection is key**
**Kaneda et. al, 07** (Hideaki Kaneda, former Vice Admiral of Japan's Defense Forces, is Director of the Okazaki Institute, Kazumasa Kobayashi, Hiroshi Tajima, Hirofumi Tosaki, “Japan’s Missile Defense Diplomatic and Security Policies In a Changing Strategic Environment,” March 2007, The Japan Institute of International Affairs, http://www2.jiia.or.jp/en/pdf/polcy_report/pr200703-jmd.pdf)
However, airborne systems alone have … <span style="text-decoration: none;">of citizens and “damage confinement”.</span>

**Global nuclear war**
**Mistry 03** – assistant professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati (Dinshaw, “Containing missile proliferation,” Google Books, pages 9-12)
Thus the missile threat is … undermine the stability of deterrence.

**ISR capability alone solves war in the South China Sea and over the Senkaku islands**
**Cronin and Giarra 10** (Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program, Paul S. Giarra, President of Global Strategies & Transformation and a retired navy Commander, “Robotic Skies Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and the Strategic Defense of Japan,” Center for a New American Security, December 2010, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Robotic%20Skies_CroninGiarra.pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Regional security factors highlight the … </span>informed decisions is a high priority.

**South** **China Sea instability guarantees escalatory warfare**
**Denmark & Kliman 11** (Abraham M,- Fellow @ the Center for a New American Security and Daniel M.,- Visiting Fellow at CNAS. “How to Get Southeast Asia Right,” The Diplomat, 2011, http://www.cnas.org/node/5624)
And there’s another reason the … and lacks legal enforcement measures.

**Senkaku escalates too – triggers full scale conflict**
**Malik 10** – Japan Foundation Fellow and author of an important volume on Pakistan-Japan relations (Ahmad Rashid, “Sino-Japanese Balance Must Be Maintained,” October 9, 2010, PanOrient News, http://www.panorientnews.com/en/news.php?k=484)
Sino-Japanese relations revolve around … that would benefit no nation.

**Spills over and goes nuclear**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Samuels 99</span>** (Richard, Professor of International Relations – MIT, The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Past, Present, and Future, p. 6-7)
The same forces that lead … provider of global public goods.

==1ac oil monitoring== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are key to oil spill monitoring</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. H. **Harahsheh 1** a, Dr. S. Essa b, M. Shiobarac, T. Nishidaid , T. Onumad a Global Scan technologies L.L.C, P.O. Box 1286, Dubai, United Arab Emirates [[mailto:%28husseinh@belhasa.ae%29|(husseinh@belhasa.ae)]] b Dept. of Geology, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, UAE [[mailto:%28smga1@hotmail.com%29|(smga1@hotmail.com)]] c Japan Oil Development Co., Ltd., 1-21-2, Shinkawa, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0033, [[mailto:Japan%28mshioba@jodco.co.jp%29|Japan(mshioba@jodco.co.jp)]] d JGI, Inc., 1-5-21, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-0012, Japan [[mailto:%28nishidai@jgi.co.jp%29|(nishidai@jgi.co.jp)]] “OPERATIONAL SATELLITE MONITORING AND DETECTION FOR OIL SPIL IN OFFSHORE OF UNITED ARAB EMIRATES” [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf|www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Many satellite-borne image data</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">in continuous oil spill monitoring</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is key </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. H. **Harahsheh 1** a, Dr. S. Essa b, M. Shiobarac, T. Nishidaid , T. Onumad a Global Scan technologies L.L.C, P.O. Box 1286, Dubai, United Arab Emirates [[mailto:%28husseinh@belhasa.ae%29|(husseinh@belhasa.ae)]] b Dept. of Geology, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, UAE [[mailto:%28smga1@hotmail.com%29|(smga1@hotmail.com)]] c Japan Oil Development Co., Ltd., 1-21-2, Shinkawa, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0033, [[mailto:Japan%28mshioba@jodco.co.jp%29|Japan(mshioba@jodco.co.jp)]] d JGI, Inc., 1-5-21, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-0012, Japan [[mailto:%28nishidai@jgi.co.jp%29|(nishidai@jgi.co.jp)]] “OPERATIONAL SATELLITE MONITORING AND DETECTION FOR OIL SPIL IN OFFSHORE OF UNITED ARAB EMIRATES” [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf|www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Influx of oil from tankers … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">protection of the coastal environments</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oil spills are the vital internal link into marine biodiversity – satellites are key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dr. H. **Harahsheh 1** a, Dr. S. Essa b, M. Shiobarac, T. Nishidaid , T. Onumad a Global Scan technologies L.L.C, P.O. Box 1286, Dubai, United Arab Emirates [[mailto:%28husseinh@belhasa.ae%29|(husseinh@belhasa.ae)]] b Dept. of Geology, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, UAE [[mailto:%28smga1@hotmail.com%29|(smga1@hotmail.com)]] c Japan Oil Development Co., Ltd., 1-21-2, Shinkawa, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0033, [[mailto:Japan%28mshioba@jodco.co.jp%29|Japan(mshioba@jodco.co.jp)]] d JGI, Inc., 1-5-21, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 112-0012, Japan [[mailto:%28nishidai@jgi.co.jp%29|(nishidai@jgi.co.jp)]] “OPERATIONAL SATELLITE MONITORING AND DETECTION FOR OIL SPIL IN OFFSHORE OF UNITED ARAB EMIRATES” [[http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf|www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXV/congress/comm7/papers/130.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The problem of pollution of … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">in the ocean //(Huhnerfuss et al., 198//1).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Craig 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law (Robin Kundis, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … out of business as a result.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This independently kills fish in the Gulf </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cynthia A. **Heil et al 1** 1,*, Patricia M. Glibert2, Mohammad A. Al-Sarawi3, Muna Faraj3, Manaf Behbehani4, Muna Husain5 1College of Marine Science, University of South Florida, 140 7th Avenue S, St. Petersburg, Florida 33701, USA 2University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, Horn Point Laboratory, PO Box 775, Cambridge, Maryland 21613, USA 3Kuwait Environment Public Authority, PO Box 24395, Safat 13104, Kuwait 4Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, Kuwait University, PO Box 5969, Safat 13060, Kuwait 5Kuwait Environment Public Authority, Marine Laboratory, PO Box 2221, Al Surrah 45400, Kuwait“First record of a fish-killing //Gymnodinium// sp. bloom in Kuwait Bay, Arabian Sea: chronology and potential causes” http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1026&context=msc_facpub</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Arabian Gulf is a shallow, … monitoring in the Arabian Gulf.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kills India’s economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Eghtesadi-**Araghi** et al **9**, Payam Tehran University of Medical Sciences Agricultural and Biological Sciences “Arabian Sea” http://www.lme.noaa.gov/LMEWeb/LME_Report/lme_32.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Marine fisheries generally play an … Food-Deficit countries</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (FAO 2005b).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Indian economic growth stops Indo/Pak nuclear war --- goes global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bouton 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Marshall M., President – Chicago Council on Global Affairs, “America’s Interests in India”, CNAS Working Paper, October, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_USInterestsinIndia_ Bouton.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In South Asia, the most … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">unchecked interstate and civil conflict</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

==1ac military== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have reached a tipping point – space debris is increasing exponentially due to chain reactions and will destroy satellites</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Efforts over the past two decades to …from another country’s spacecraft.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This will collapse the military – immediately invites global aggression and war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imburgia 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to ….imperiled, if not forever lost.172</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This collapses terrestrial and sea power – plus makes bioterrorism inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AMS 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">National Security. Today's sophisticated military…and trigger mass migrations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered**…**potential damage bioweapons could cause.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And hegemony ensures coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline,…unrivalled US primacy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barnett 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas Barnett**,** American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review, 9/19/11, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and…Soviet threat disappeared.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nationalism makes conflict likely to escalate – only heg solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The jostling for status and influence among…under unfavorable circumstances.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are key to UAV’s </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beers 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Andy Beers, MilSat Magazine, Thrane & Thrane, November 2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Swiftbroadband For UAVs”, MilSat Magazine, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=969668068&method=print)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Core to the success of … the safety of ground forces.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is key to prevent Israel/Palestinian conflict and escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jimmy Johnson, International Coordinator of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions “Unmanned aerial vehicles and the warfare of inequality management,” The Electronic Intifada, February 16, 2009, http://electronicintifada.net/content/unmanned-aerial-vehicles-and-warfare-inequality-management/8072)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The latter was noted by … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the ground forces in Gaza.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">” [7]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are key to UAV’s </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beers 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Andy Beers, MilSat Magazine, Thrane & Thrane, November 2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Swiftbroadband For UAVs”, MilSat Magazine, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=969668068&method=print)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Core to the success of … the safety of ground forces.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is key to prevent Israel/Palestinian conflict and escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jimmy Johnson, International Coordinator of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions “Unmanned aerial vehicles and the warfare of inequality management,” The Electronic Intifada, February 16, 2009, http://electronicintifada.net/content/unmanned-aerial-vehicles-and-warfare-inequality-management/8072)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The latter was noted by … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the ground forces in Gaza.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">” [7]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The data is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jimmy Johnson, International Coordinator of the Israeli Committee Against House Demolitions “Unmanned aerial vehicles and the warfare of inequality management,” The Electronic Intifada, February 16, 2009, http://electronicintifada.net/content/unmanned-aerial-vehicles-and-warfare-inequality-management/8072)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Agencies of authority, from occupying … in the next five years. [18]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nawash, ‘9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Kamal Nawash, Legal Director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC), Founder, Free Muslims Coalition, Republican candidate for Virginia State Senate, "Israel/Palestine Conflict May Lead to Nuclear War," January 10, 2009, <online> http://www.freemuslims.org/news.php?id=4240]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Surprise, surprise, once again </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">but time is running out.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They’re also key to MDA </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Peter J. Brown, journalist specializing in US satellite technology, former senior multimedia editor for “Via Satellite” magazine, “US Satellites Shadow China’s Submarines,” Asia Times, May 13, 2010, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LE13Ad01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Aircraft and UAVs</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> lingering overhead … as </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the coast of China.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MDA prevents global warfare </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DON 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(US Department of the Navy, “Navy Maritime Doman Awareness Concept,” May 29, 2007, http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/Navy_Maritime_Domain_Awareness_Concept_FINAL_2007.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the world’s premier maritime … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">response to any emerging threat.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently collapses the navy </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Matthew John Dillon, Lieutenant, United States Navy, B.A., California State University, “Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces,” Naval Postgraduate School, September 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488669)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C. UNITED STATES SPACE ASSETS … communications, real time measurements (GPS).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Naval power solves all conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">England et. al, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">All our citizens, and especially … the challenges of the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debris destroys capabilities that are key to vessel tracking in the Arctic is key – this prevents Arctic war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jim Hodges, “Commanding the Arctic,” C4ISR Journal, March 1, 2011, http://www.c4isrjournal.com/story.php?F=5508063)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It was simpler during the … in Parliament want to reduce.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The data also prevents war – loss of observation capabilities destabilizes the region </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winokur 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The Arctic is</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> one example … than through the Panama Canal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Staples 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute, “Steps Toward an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone,” August 10, 2009, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The fact is, the Arctic is … or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently key to solve piracy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">exactNews 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (exactNews is the routine news source, global vessel monitoring and tracking service based on world leading Satellite, “exactEarth Unveils the Next Chapter in Satellite AIS,” Issue 2, 2011, http://www.exactearth.com/assets/Uploads/exactNews-Web-Issue-2.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the first four months of 2011, there have…maritime incidents across the globe.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is African instability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">World Beat,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **09** – Publication of Foreign Policy in Focus Think tank (Ed. John Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies. World Beat vol. 4, num. 5, Feb 3, 2009. “Our Pirates and Theirs.” http://www.fpif.org/articles/our_pirates_and_theirs)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hussein Yusuf disagrees. "Somalia poses a grave…interpretations in their strategic dialogue on this topic.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Instability escalates to global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deutsch 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">** (Dr. Jeffery, Founder – Rabid Tiger Project, Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. 2, No. 7, 11-18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project believes that …people love to go fishing.</span>

==1ac russia== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks accidental nuclear war with Russia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeffrey Lewis, postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two … is corrosive to the con•dence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The mere perception triggers conflict – satellite failure would collapse trust and exacerbate tensions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coffelt 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Lt. Colonel; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OF US SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, June 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite …, this is already beginning to occur.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Helfand and Pastore 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many … their weapons off ready-alert status. Presidents Obama and Medvedev can do this on their own by executive order.</span>
==1ac solvency== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A single laser facility could solve all debris in three years</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Economist 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The real threat now comes … this size in three years.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most dangerous pieces of … using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>

**The plan solves without triggering the link to space mil**
**Ackerman, 11** (Evan, “NASA wants to blast space junk with lasers from the ground”, 3/14/2011, http://dvice.com/archives/2011/03/nasa-wants-to-b-1.php, JT)
Rogue space junk poses a serious threat to both….system could even pay for itself by being used for fuel-free orbital adjustments to existing satellites designed to absorb laser blasts.

**We can track the debris now – we just can’t dispose of it**
**NRC 11** (National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Orbital debris</span> and meteoroids <span class="Underline">less than 10 cm….</span>for the satellite catalog is about 1 m.

**Their weaponization links aren’t about the plan – no potential as an ASAT**
**Cowen 11** (Ron Cowen, – “Laser proposed to deflect space junk ,” Science News, 3-22, http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/71534/description/Laser_proposed_to_deflect_space_junk_)
It won’t prevent Armageddon, but<span style="text-decoration: none;">….</span>for the system to be effective.
=mba= 
==space debris== 
==1ac inherency== 
**We have reached a __tipping point__ – space debris is increasing __exponentially__ due to __chain reactions__ and will destroy satellites**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Efforts </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over the past two decades to ... debris from another country’s spacecraft.</span>

**Even small debris short circuits satellites**
**Natalie 10** (Pusey, Natalie, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)
Space debris causes a variety of … ground-based astronomical observation<span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span>

**30 new NASA projects were just funded including debris air guns**
**VOA 11** (Voice of America, “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis, 8/9/11)
NASA, the U.S. space agency, has awarded $3 …. hope of eventually integrating them into a future space mission.
== == 
==1ac hegemony== 
**Decline isn’t inevitable – America can achieve dominance if it maintains critical assets**
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Cox 11** (Michael, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC, 8/30/11, http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ALI MOORE: Let's look at America - the other side of this ...some </span>**__deep structural strengths of the American political order.__**</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Imburgia 11** (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to our </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... is severely imperiled, if not forever lost</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.172</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Debris collapses communication superiority**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The second major space-debris creating </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...its wartime communications</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**That puts the military back 70 years**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Johnson and Hudson 08** (Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center, Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. News and World Report </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...space assets is not optional.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**US military superiority ensures world peace, builds coalitions and deters new threats – any alternative results in global war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Zhang and Shi 11** (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**And military predominance prevents every scenario for nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Kagan 07** – senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal ...of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

**Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony**
Barnett 11 9/19 Thomas, American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world]]
Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks ... security after the Soviet threat disappeared.

**War is decreasing – primacy is the reason.**
**Drezner, 2005** [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]
Daily explosions in Iraq… the U.S. or each other in a war. It would be suicide for anyone to fight a war with the U.S., and if any of these countries waged a war with each other, the

<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">**Transition alone guarantees war – only unipolarity short-circuits conflict and prevents great power war****</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16px;">Wohlforth 09 (</span>William, professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics v61, n1, January, Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The evidence suggests that narrow and ... again form the backdrop of world politics</span>.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [End Page 57]</span></span>
==1ac disease== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Runaway debris makes the use of Earth’s orbit impossible – the plan is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Currently, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the highest spatial …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> using its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That makes disease pandemics inevitable – disease monitoring is uniquely key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colwell et. al, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Rita Colwell, Professor at the University of Maryland and at Johns Hopkins, “Using satellite images of environmental changes to predict infectious disease outbreaks,” http://www.cdc.gov/eid/content/15/9/1341.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most important lesson from the …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> for future disease prediction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, satellites are vital for halting Avian Flu</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harmon 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks,” 8/24, http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rather than searching for weird … flu by estimating where the birds would be.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plus they monitor migratory routes and the spread of the flu</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deborah 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Founder of Climate of Our Future, a non-profit environmental news source, “Satellite Technology Targets Disease Hotspots for Avian Influenza,” 4-19, http://climateofourfuture.org/satellite-technology-targets-disease-hotspots-for-avian-influenza/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wildlife Trust http://www.wildlifetrust.org, the global conservation health organization, recently launched a multi-… to predict and prevent disease threats at the animal-human-ecosystem interface.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is global pandemic catastrophe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greger 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A pandemic today could be many times … We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”579</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That outweighs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zakaria 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Fareed Zakaria, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">flu pandemic is the most dangerous … for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently, satellites are key to preventing animal-driven pandemics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">UPI 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Study: Satellites can predict disease risk,” 2-15, http://www.upi.com/Science_News/2011/02/15/Study-Satellites-can-predict-disease-risk/UPI-97211297791134/#ixzz1VEB9wqwV)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Satellites can give warnings ahead of outbreaks</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of … co-author Thomas Cova, Utah associate professor of geology.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That’s the vital bridge for the crossover of anti-biotic resistant diseases</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sayre 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Lauren Sayre, “The Hidden Link Between Factory Farms and Human Illness,” Feb/Mar, http://www.motherearthnews.com/Natural-Health/Meat-Poultry-Health-Risk.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Of particular concern is the rapid rise …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and 150 meters downwind of industrial hog facilities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collins 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sharon Collins, Sunday Mirror, Mirror Group newspapers health editor, formerly trained as a specialized medical correspondent, 4-12-1998 “'Doomsday' fear as we over-use antibiotics,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">THE golden age of antibiotics</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, the 20th Century's … are no new ones in the pipeline to replace the life-saving ones to which resistance is developing."</span>
==1ac radiation== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris causes mass radiation exposure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Feffer 02 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Loren, and Adi Ferrera, “ Does the accumulation of "space debris" in Earth's orbit pose a significant threat to humans, in space and on the ground”, Vol. 1. Detroit: Gale, 2002. p16-23 Science in Dispute, accessed online, http://issuu.com/elsachung/docs/spacejunk)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those who fear that space debris poses an imminent threat argue…again miss a populated area, and that its core won't be breached?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it will hit everybody on earth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Natalie</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pusey, **2010** Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, [21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425] Spring, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Another possible danger of space … can re-enter the atmosphere, it also presents a safety hazard for manned space operations. n86</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nissani, 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Moti, writer who has examined the reception new scientific discoveries have received in history**,** 1992, “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”, http://www.is.wayne.edu/mnissani/PAGEPUB/CH2.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some 15 percent of the bomb's energy is taken up by ionizing radiation. From the psychological point of view, and from the point of view of humankind's long-term future, radiation is perhaps…months or years to come down to earth, during which time it can be carried to all corners of the globe.</span>

==1ac navy== 
**We have reached a tipping point – space debris is increasing exponentially due to chain reactions and will destroy satellites**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, </span>http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Efforts </span>over the past two decades to …from another country’s spacecraft.

**This will collapse the military – immediately invites global aggression and war**
**Imburgia 11** (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)
These gloomy prognostications about the threats to ….imperiled, if not forever lost.172

**These satellites are uniquely key to global military mobility and operational efficiency**
**Conathan 11** — Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, former staff member on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation’s Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, holds an M.A. in Marine Affairs from the University of Rhode Island, 2011 (Michael, February 18th, “A Forecast for Disaster: Stormy Conditions Await if NOAA Funding Is Cut,” Center for American Progress,<span style="text-decoration: none;">http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/noaa_funding.html</span>)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">needs</span> these <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellites if we’re….</span>can prohibit mid-air refueling operations.

**This collapses terrestrial and sea power – plus makes bioterrorism inevitable**
**AMS 01** (American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">National Security. Today's sophisticated military…and trigger mass migrations.</span>

**Extinction**
**Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered**…**</span>potential damage bioweapons could cause.

**And hegemony ensures coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war**
**Zhang and Shi 11** (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)
This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline,…unrivalled US primacy.

**Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony**
**Barnett 11** (Thomas Barnett**,** American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review, 9/19/11, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world)
Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and…Soviet threat disappeared.

**Nationalism makes conflict likely to escalate – only heg solves**
**Kagan 07** (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)
The jostling for status and influence among…under unfavorable circumstances.

**The navy is uniquely vulnerable because of reliance on weather monitoring which is key to naval effectiveness**
**Winokur 11** Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal” <span style="text-decoration: none;">http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore</span>) Jacome
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Since operations at sea are very susceptible…</span> climatology allows us to more efficiently plan for heating and cooling costs.

**Independently, satellite based AIS is the foundation of Maritime Domain Awareness and vessel tracking – collapse hamstrings maritime security**
**exactNews 11** (exactNews is the routine news source, global vessel monitoring and tracking service based on world leading Satellite, “exactEarth Unveils the Next Chapter in Satellite AIS,” Issue 2, 2011, http://www.exactearth.com/assets/Uploads/exactNews-Web-Issue-2.pdf, note that card is cut from main article sections and not sidebar sections outlined in blue in pdf)
*note – AIS = Automatic Identification System
On April 20, the third satellite in<span style="text-decoration: none;">…can change all of this.</span>

**MDA makes or breaks naval power**
**DON 07** (US Department of the Navy, “Navy Maritime Doman Awareness Concept,” May 29, 2007, http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/Navy_Maritime_Domain_Awareness_Concept_FINAL_2007.pdf)
As the world’s premier maritime force, …maritime security responsibilities.

**Naval power solves great power war**
**Conway et. al, 07** [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]
No other disruption is as …extended campaigns ashore.

**Independently key to solve piracy**
**exactNews 11** (exactNews is the routine news source, global vessel monitoring and tracking service based on world leading Satellite, “exactEarth Unveils the Next Chapter in Satellite AIS,” Issue 2, 2011, http://www.exactearth.com/assets/Uploads/exactNews-Web-Issue-2.pdf)
In the first four months of 2011, there have…maritime incidents across the globe.

**The impact is African instability**
**World Beat,** **09** – Publication of Foreign Policy in Focus Think tank (Ed. John Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies. World Beat vol. 4, num. 5, Feb 3, 2009. “Our Pirates and Theirs.” http://www.fpif.org/articles/our_pirates_and_theirs)
Hussein Yusuf disagrees. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Somalia poses a grave…</span>interpretations in their strategic dialogue on this topic.

**Instability escalates to global nuclear war**
**Deutsch 01**** (Dr. Jeffery, Founder – Rabid Tiger Project, Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. 2, No. 7, 11-18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)
The Rabid Tiger Project believes that …people love to go fishing.

==1ac russia== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris risks accidental nuclear war with Russia</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Lewis 04** (Jeffrey Lewis, postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two … is corrosive to the con•dence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The mere perception triggers conflict – satellite failure would collapse trust and exacerbate tensions </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Coffelt 05** – Lt. Colonel; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OF US SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, June 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those that operate satellite …, this is already beginning to occur.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Helfand and Pastore 09** (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many … their weapons off ready-alert status. Presidents Obama and Medvedev can do this on their own by executive order.</span>
=blake= 
==space debris== 
==1ac inherency== 
**We have reached a __tipping point__ – space debris is increasing __exponentially__ due to __chain reactions__ and will destroy satellites**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Efforts </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over the past two decades to ... debris from another country’s spacecraft. </span>

==1ac latin america== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Imburgia 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to ... use of space is severely imperiled, if not forever lost.172</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These capabilities are vital to UAV’s</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Defense-Update 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (2009, “RQ-1A/MQ-1 Predator UAV”, Defense-Update, http://defense-update.com/products/p/predator.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The USAF preferred to operate the Predator ...line-of-sight data link which has a range of 150 nautical miles and UHF and Ku-band satellite data links.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">But these UAV and communication satellite assets are vital to prevent Caribbean narcoterrorism</span>**
**Purdy 08** (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ... keep personnel from being detected and harmed by insurgents.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The impact is bioweapons and LNG attacks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Flynn and Bryan 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Terrorist acts can take place anywhere. ... within national borders.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">LNG attacks cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lovins and Lovins, 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (“Brittle Power,” 2001 http://www.rmi.org/images/other/EnergySecurity/S82-03_BrPwrParts123.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">LNG is less than half as dense as water, so a ... cubic meters) is equivalent to seven-tenths of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">So do bioweapons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ochs, 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically..., then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">UAV’s are also the critical determinant of Latin American stability – loss of capability will collapse the region into instability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ballvé 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Marcelo Ballvé, Jan. 27, 2010, New America Media, “Drug Surveillance Drones Frequent Flyers in Latin America”, http://www.ww4report.com/node/8390)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Drone aircraft are increasingly engaged .... Inacio "Lula" da Silva in December 2008.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">That empowers Brazilian hardliners</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Millett, 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Richard L., Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the North-South Center, Oppenheimer Chair of Modern Warfighting Strategy at the U.S. Marine Corps University, Professor Emeritus of History at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville, Oct. Strategic Studies Institute, Colombia's Conflicts: The Spillover Effects of a Wider War)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">While the spillover of Colombia’s conflicts has \... Panamanian security apparatus, are also obstacles which will be difficult to overcome.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schulz, 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Donald E., Ph.D., Chair of Political Science at Cleveland State U., fmr. Research Professor of National Security at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army College, March 2k. Strategic Studies Institute, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Until recently, the primary U.S. concern ... Brazilian border provoked an angry response from many high-ranking Brazilian officers. 57</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Instability alone causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Manwaring 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Issue of State Failure. - President ... peace, and prosperity.65</span>
==1ac iss== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris knocks out the ISS </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">According to forecasts published by … could also be rendered inoperable.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan will be able to sustain ISS operations </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pearson 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Jerome, Star Technology and Research, USA http://www.tbp.org/pages/publications/Bent/Features/SP10Pearson.pdfEDDE can transport satellites</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vehicles like </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">EDDEcould also be used as an upper …such</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> on-orbit repair operations </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">could be a valuable part of fullscale ISS operations</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ISS is vital to all cooperation – losing it guarantees relations collapse </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hauser and John, ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Hauser = Vice president, Washington Operations and Research and Analysis for the Space Foundation, John = Research Analyst “The International Space Station: Decision 2015,” Space Foundation, [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As the world becomes increasingly interconnected, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">strong … programs, or undertake all costs on its own. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ISS is a vital area of US-Russia cooperation and mutual vulnerability </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Eric </span>**Berger, ’11** – “U.S., Russia bond in 50 years since Yuri Gagarin flew,” Houston Chroncile, [[http://www.chron.com/news/houston-texas/article/U-S-Russia-bond-in-50-years-since-Yuri-Gagarin-1683742.php]].
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Outsiders may believe that once NASA … aerospace engineer at NASA for 22 years who now is a space reporter for NBC News and other outlets.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it will spill over into broader areas of cooperation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Mindell et al ’08** – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, [[http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">International partnerships in human spaceflight … the United States in other arenas.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">US-Russian relations prevent extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Cohen, 2k** - </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">professor of Russian studies at New York University, (Stephen, Failed Crusade, p. 196-205)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These assurances are manifestly untrue and, …. may make that decision, but our children and grandchildren will reap the benefits or pay the price. </span>
==1ac instability== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Imburgia 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to ... use of space is severely imperiled, if not forever lost.172</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">These capabilities are vital to UAV’s</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Defense-Update 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (2009, “RQ-1A/MQ-1 Predator UAV”, Defense-Update, http://defense-update.com/products/p/predator.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The USAF preferred to operate the Predator ...line-of-sight data link which has a range of 150 nautical miles and UHF and Ku-band satellite data links.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is key to curb terrorism – collapse of UAVs destroys Afghanistan and Pakistan stability </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Cordesman 10 –**PhD, Analyzes political and military strategy for the Center for Strategic & International Studies and former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (6/20/10, Newsday, “Drones are the difference between surgery and butchery in war”, [[http://www.newsday.com/opinion/oped/opinion-drones-are-the-difference-between-surgery-and-butchery-in-war-1.2035217]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earlier this month, a UN investigator added to…something like the last 4,000 years. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Afghani instability causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan, 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Stephen J. former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, political writer including books such as The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist – the Cult of Al Qaeda -- “Better Another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan” March 4 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?Better-Another-Taliban-Afghanistan,-than-a-Taliban-NUCLEAR-Pakistan?&id=475808]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However events may prove him … with China and Russia pitted against the US. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pakistan instability causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Riedel and Singh 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Senior Fellow in foreign policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy of the Brookings Institution (January, “U.S.-China Relations: Seeking Strategic Convergence in Pakistan,” http://api.ning.com/files/xmr0yCbavQaFgMxO-Ecd5PWsW-bdN2Jg0HXhpmbLhQqtOto3REmRSFBffH73nKeXchSFdilZ4OVtMvbA9KDil1pwdF4UdScy/0112_US_China_Relations_Riedel.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">U</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">has a vital national security….-changer</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Washington must stabilize Pakistan.</span>
==1ac disease== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Runaway debris makes the use of Earth’s orbit impossible – the plan is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ansdell 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Currently, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the highest spatial …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> using its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That makes disease pandemics inevitable – disease monitoring is uniquely key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colwell et. al, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Rita Colwell, Professor at the University of Maryland and at Johns Hopkins, “Using satellite images of environmental changes to predict infectious disease outbreaks,” http://www.cdc.gov/eid/content/15/9/1341.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most important lesson from the …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> for future disease prediction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, satellites are vital for halting Avian Flu </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harmon 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks,” 8/24, http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rather than searching for weird … flu by estimating where the birds would be. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plus they monitor migratory routes and the spread of the flu </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deborah 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Founder of Climate of Our Future, a non-profit environmental news source, “Satellite Technology Targets Disease Hotspots for Avian Influenza,” 4-19, http://climateofourfuture.org/satellite-technology-targets-disease-hotspots-for-avian-influenza/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wildlife Trust http://www.wildlifetrust.org, the global conservation health organization, recently launched a multi-… to predict and prevent disease threats at the animal-human-ecosystem interface.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is global pandemic catastrophe </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greger 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A pandemic today could be many times … We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”579</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That outweighs </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zakaria 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Fareed Zakaria, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">flu pandemic is the most dangerous … for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently, satellites are key to preventing animal-driven pandemics </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">UPI 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Study: Satellites can predict disease risk,” 2-15, http://www.upi.com/Science_News/2011/02/15/Study-Satellites-can-predict-disease-risk/UPI-97211297791134/#ixzz1VEB9wqwV)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Satellites can give warnings ahead of outbreaks</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of … co-author Thomas Cova, Utah associate professor of geology.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That’s the vital bridge for the crossover of anti-biotic resistant diseases </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sayre 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Lauren Sayre, “The Hidden Link Between Factory Farms and Human Illness,” Feb/Mar, http://www.motherearthnews.com/Natural-Health/Meat-Poultry-Health-Risk.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Of particular concern is the rapid rise …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and 150 meters downwind of industrial hog facilities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collins 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sharon Collins, Sunday Mirror, Mirror Group newspapers health editor, formerly trained as a specialized medical correspondent, 4-12-1998 “'Doomsday' fear as we over-use antibiotics,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">THE golden age of antibiotics</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, the 20th Century's … are no new ones in the pipeline to replace the life-saving ones to which resistance is developing."</span>
==1ac radiation== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris causes mass radiation exposure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Feffer 02 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Loren, and Adi Ferrera, “ Does the accumulation of "space debris" in Earth's orbit pose a significant threat to humans, in space and on the ground”, Vol. 1. Detroit: Gale, 2002. p16-23 Science in Dispute, accessed online, http://issuu.com/elsachung/docs/spacejunk)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Those who fear that space debris poses an imminent threat argue…again miss a populated area, and that its core won't be breached? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it will hit everybody on earth </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Natalie</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pusey, **2010** Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, [21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425] Spring, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Another possible danger of space … can re-enter the atmosphere, it also presents a safety hazard for manned space operations. n86</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nissani, 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Moti, writer who has examined the reception new scientific discoveries have received in history**,** 1992, “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”, http://www.is.wayne.edu/mnissani/PAGEPUB/CH2.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some 15 percent of the bomb's energy is taken up by ionizing radiation. From the psychological point of view, and from the point of view of humankind's long-term future, radiation is perhaps…months or years to come down to earth, during which time it can be carried to all corners of the globe.</span>
==1ac plan text== 
**Thus the United States federal government should develop and deploy ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminators.**
==**1ac solvency**== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EDDE’s solve even with tipping point </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space.com 9/2/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – “Want to Get Rid of Space Junk? Catch It in a Giant Net” http://www.space.com/12819-space-junk-cleanup-giant-net-tether.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A small fleet of net-flinging spacecraft could clear every big…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EDDE could be launched within five years, so that means LEO could be swept clean of large orbital debris by 2023 or so.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Immediate implementation of EDDE is key – it’s empirically proven to be low-cost, versatile and robust – no other technology competes </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pearson et al, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Jerome, Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA. Also J Carroll (Tether Applications) and E. Levin (STAR, Inc.). “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR,” Presented @ 61st International Astronautical Congress, http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The immediate danger of LEO debris is now being … objects. It is the logical solution to LEO debris removal, and should be implemented immediately.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EDDE is the first propellantless debris removal vehicle – it removes all debris using low-thrust, high-capability orbit shift </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pearson et al, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Jerome, Star Technology and Research, Inc. USA. Also J Carroll (Tether Applications) and E. Levin (STAR, Inc.). “ACTIVE DEBRIS REMOVAL: EDDE, THE ELECTRODYNAMIC DEBRIS ELIMINATOR,” Presented @ 61st International Astronautical Congress, http://www.star-tech-inc.com/papers/EDDE_IAC_Final_Paper.pdf. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The most near-term and technically advanced method presented…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">coordinated changes in all 6 orbit elements. The force can also be used to change the orientation of the conductor by changing the EDDE rotation rate and plane. </span>

=university of michigan= 
==space debris== 
Everything is the same except:

==1ac inherency== 
**This will spiral into an orbital debris minefield that makes space unusable**
**Mann 10/26/11** (Adam Mann, Wired Science, Dr. Claude R. Phipps, Managing Partner, Photonic Associates, PhD in Plasma Physics from Stanford, “Space Junk Crisis: Time to Bring in the Lasers,” http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2011/10/space-junk-laser/)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space junk</span>, which ranges from tiny paint flecks…junk wandered precariously close.

==1ac economy== 
**Backups fail – collisions have a __total force effect__**
**McGrath 09** (Thomas M. McGrath, B.S. @ Virginia Tech and M.S. @ Naval Postgraduate School, “What Happens if the Stars Go Out? U.S. Army Dependence on the Global Positioning System” 2-2009 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada520135.pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Another key point</span> to bring up <span style="text-decoration: none;">is the number</span>….successfully operate in a degraded condition.

==1ac hegemony== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Hegemony is sustainable</span>**
**Naím 8/9/11**(Moisés Naím, Internationally renowned columnist and commentator on globalization, international politics and economics whose columns are published every Sunday by Spain’s El País and Italy's Il Sole 24Ore and reprinted by more than forty leading newspapers worldwide, Carnegie Endowment for Peace, “Why the United States Will Remain the Strongest Country in the World”,http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=45320&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+CarnegieEndowmentForInternationalPeaceGeneralPublicationsAndEvents+%28DC+-+General+Publications+and+Events%29, August 9, 2011)
The downgrade<span style="text-decoration: none;">crisis</span>,andthe… than other countries? No.<span style="text-decoration: none;">Will</span>it remain, for the foreseeable future,the most powerful country in the world? Yes.

==1ac solvency== 
**The plan solves without triggering the link to space mil**
**Ackerman, 11** (Evan, “NASA wants to blast space junk with lasers from the ground”, 3/14/2011, http://dvice.com/archives/2011/03/nasa-wants-to-b-1.php, JT)
Rogue space junk poses a serious threat to both….system could even pay for itself by being used for fuel-free orbital adjustments to existing satellites designed to absorb laser blasts.

**We can track the debris now – we just can’t dispose of it**
**NRC 11** (National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Orbital debris</span> and meteoroids <span class="Underline">less than 10 cm….</span>for the satellite catalog is about 1 m.

**We only need to __reduce__ the risk to solve, not eliminate it**
**Welser** & Baiocchi, **10** – Dave, PhD and engineer and defense analyst at RAND; William, MBA in business administration and management systems researcher at RAND (“Confronting Space Debris” RAND Corporation; pdf online @ http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG1042.pdf)
It is also important to note that<span style="text-decoration: none;">….</span>no additional effort is needed.

**Their weaponization links aren’t about the plan – no potential as an ASAT**
**Cowen 11** (Ron Cowen, – “Laser proposed to deflect space junk ,” Science News, 3-22, http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/71534/description/Laser_proposed_to_deflect_space_junk_)
It won’t prevent Armageddon, but<span style="text-decoration: none;">….</span>for the system to be effective.
=st marks= 
==space debris== 
Everything is the same except:

==1ac hegemony== 
**Contention three is hegemony**

**Decline isn’t inevitable – America can achieve dominance if it maintains critical assets**
**Cox 11** (Michael, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC, 8/30/11, http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ALI MOORE: Let's look at America - the other side of this ...some </span>**__deep structural strengths of the American political order.__**

**Space debris destroys crucial assets and collapses the military – immediately invites global aggression and war**
**Imburgia 11** (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These gloomy prognostications about the threats to our </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... is severely imperiled, if not forever lost</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.172</span>

**Debris collapses communication superiority**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The second major space-debris creating </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...its wartime communications</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span>

**That puts the military back 70 years**
**Johnson and Hudson 08** (Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center, Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]])**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. News and World Report </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...space assets is not optional.</span>__**

US military superiority ensures world peace, builds coalitions and deters new threats – any alternative results in global war
Zhang and Shi 11 **(Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>__**

And military predominance prevents every scenario for nuclear war
Kagan 07 **– senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal ...of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>**

Deterrence empirically and historically decreases wars likelihood
Moore ’04 **– Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, page 27-31.**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As so broadly conceived, </span>__there is strong evidence__ __...__,__then__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">it is the totality of external factors, that is,</span> __deterrence, that__ __become crucial__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**

**Statistics prove violence has decreased due to hegemony**
Barnett 11 **9/19 Thomas**, **<span style="color: #000000;">American military geostrategist</span> and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat World Politics Review [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/10047/the-new-rules-credit-the-u-s-not-the-u-n-for-more-peaceful-world]]**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Thanks to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks ... security after the Soviet threat disappeared. </span>**

**Transition alone guarantees war – only unipolarity short-circuits conflict and prevents great power war****
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Wohlforth 09 (</span>William, professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics v61, n1, January, Muse)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The evidence suggests that narrow and ... again form the backdrop of world politics</span>.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [End Page 57] </span>
==1ac solvency== 
**Contention five is solvency**

**A single laser facility could solve all debris in three years**
**The Economist 10** (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 [[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]])
__The real threat now comes from__ __...__ this size __in three years__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**It’s feasible in the near-term and technology is constantly improving**
**Johnson and Hudson 08** (Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center, Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]])**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>__Orion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> study </span>__concluded that removing__ __...__are eager to apply these to an international project.”184**

**Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided**
**Ansdell** **10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]])
**__The most dangerous pieces of space debris are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ...against by using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>**

**__Zero__ risk of space weaponization**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Choi 1</span>(Charles, Master’s @ University of Missouri—Columbia, 3-17, [[http://www.space.com/11157-nasa-lasers-shooting-space-junk.html]])
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Instead of going up into space to bring down garbage, scientists...for enough debris objects, then it might be able to stabilize the population and slow the Kessler syndrome," he added. </span>**

**Studies prove it works**
**Mason et al. 11** – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Researcher at the NASA Ames Research Center and Universities Space Research Association (James, Jan Stupl, William Marshall, Creon Levitt, “Orbital Debris-Debris Collision Avoidance,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/1103/1103.1690v1.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, March 11) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It is clear that the actual implementation of </span>a laser ... and propellant-less station keeping for smallsats.

We can track most small debris now but we don’t have the capability to deal with them
NRC 11 **(National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf)**
**Orbital debris and meteoroids less than...Note that while the cataloged population in LEO contains all debris above 10 cm in size, in GEO the detection threshold for the satellite catalog is about 1 m.**

We only need to REDUCE the risk to solve, not eliminate it
Baiocchi and Welser, 10** – Dave, PhD and engineer and defense analyst at RAND; William, MBA in business administration and management systems researcher at RAND (“Confronting Space Debris” RAND Corporation; pdf online @ http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG1042.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It is also important to note ... additional effort is needed.</span>

=greenhill= 
==space debris== 
==1ac inherency== 

**We have reached a __tipping point__ – … minuscule debris should begin now**
**The Guardian 9/1/11 –** “Space junk rising exponentially” http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth
__The amount of junk in …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoid something else," Kessler said.</span>

**Miniscule space debris short circuits satellites even without collisions**
**Natalie 10** (Pusey, Natalie, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space debris causes a variety of … </span>__obscure ground-based astronomical observation<span class="Underline">.</span>__

**No disads – 30 new NASA projects … funded __including__ debris air guns**
**VOA 8/9/11** (Voice of America, “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis)
__NASA__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the U.S. space agency, </span>__has …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">them into a future space mission.</span>

**And funding for tracking now and it will increase**
**Science Insider 11** (2/14/11, Andrew Lawler and Sara Reardon, “Climate Science, Asteroid Detection Big Winners in NASA Budget”, [[http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html%29/DT|http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/climate-science-asteroid-detection.html)//DT]]
__NASA will have to live … observations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would </span>__quadruple to $20.4 million__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==1ac economy== 

**Global economic growth will slow but won’t hit outright recession now**
**Dadush, 8-11**-11 – Uri – Senior associate & Director @ Carnegie’s International Economics Program. “Averting Another Global Recession.” Carnegie Endowment for Int’l Peace, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3|http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/11/averting-another-global-recession/4n1o#3]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why has the global economic … </span>__fall off the edge soon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**First is BANKING – Space debris knocks out satellites that are vital to global banking and power grids**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
__There are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently </span>__hundreds of … interrupt electric power grids__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>

**Banking is vital to growth – multiple experts conclude it’s reverse-causal and affects every sector**
Pierre **Monnin &** Terhi **Jokipii, ’10** – Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, [[http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f]], p. 3-4.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The increased incidence of banking … to further improve economic forecasts.</span>

**Second is GPS – GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D – they’d all face SUBSTANTIAL hits**
**Pham, 11** – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf)
__The commercial stakes are high__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. … (consumer oriented) or military users. </span>

**One major debris collision is enough to inspire panic and causes space operators to pull out of the market – the economic impact is incalculable**
**Space Daily, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (August 31, 2009, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]], Space Daily)</span>
__Upper stages must vent tanks … even calculable.__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This is scary!</span>

**The satellite industry is critical – it’s key to jobs and global commerce – blips will be felt globally**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fifty years after their introduction, </span>__… to reverberate throughout multiple nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Economic decline causes all conflicts to escalate – terrorism, proliferation, resource conflicts and nuclear wars**
**Harris and Burrows,’9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Mathew = Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer = Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__a more dog-eat-dog world.__

**Their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support – global economic crises triggers global war**
**Royal 10**** Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>
==1ac hegemony== 
**ADVANTAGE two is HEGEMONY –**

**Space debris destroys critical space assets – that wrecks intell gathering, command and control and battlefield planning – that immediately opens the door to massive terrorism, the rise of hostile actors and surprise WMD launches**
**Imburgia, ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Joseph, Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF. Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May. http%3A%2F%2Flaw.vanderbilt.edu%2Fpublications%2Fjournal-of-transnational-law%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D6574&rct=j&q=Space%20Debris%20and%20Its%20Threat%20to%20National%20Security%3A%20A%20Proposal%20for%20a%20Binding%20International%20Agreement%20to%20Clean%20Up%20the%20Junk&ei=ypRiTr3aB8uDtgfjxcn_CQ&usg=AFQjCNEglOEqH_3OfmcbgE6HXwiHKrBz8g&sig2=tGgUqSpEwkWUxmVNfAZ1Cg</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These gloomy prognostications …</span>__is severely imperiled, if not forever lost__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.172</span>

**Space assets are essential – American global power and nuclear deterrence disappears without them**
Taylor **Dinerman, 8-1**-11. “How the End of NASA Affects US National Security,” Hudson Institute, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hudson-ny.org/2299/nasa-us-national-security]]</span>.
__Space exploration is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__ability to help keep America secure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and prosperous </span>__will inevitably diminish__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Space assets are crucial to communications superiority – it’s 80% of the mission**
Megan **Ansdell, ’10** – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second major space-debris …</span>__for **over 80 percent of its wartime communications**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span>

**Communication superiority is vital to ALL OTHER military advantages – loss sets the U.S. military back 75 years**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].**
**__U.S. News and…,__** __the security of space assets is not optional**.**__

**It’s reverse causal – EVERY BRANCH of the military would *collapse* without satellites**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8** **–** Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">General Kevin P. </span>__Chilton, …for crucial advantages in the field__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”6</span>

**US leadership ensures world peace builds coalitions, and deters new threats – any alternative results in wars**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Zhang and Shi,</span>****<span style="color: black;">11</span>**<span style="color: black;"> –1/21 *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry</span>//<span style="color: black;">, </span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]<span style="color: black;"> )</span>
<span style="color: black;">This does not necessarily ….</span>__<span style="color: black;">devoid of unrivalled US primacy</span>__

**Nuclear conflicts would erupt in multiple regions without U.S. military dominance**
**Kagan, ‘7** - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and it …of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

==1ac russia== 
**ADVANTAGE three IS RUSSIA**

**Space debris during times of tension causes accidental nuclear war with Russia** – their Early Warning System is only on line for six hours a day and will panic and miscalculate
**Lewis, ‘4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways. …presence of such weapons is corrosive to the con•dence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**Even if Russia didn’t immediately miscalculate, the event would inspire mistrust that escalates – the mere perception causes a crisis**
**Coffelt, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Colonel @ US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with space operations know the difficulties in determining the exact cause of many satellite malfunctions or …</span>__beginning to occur.__

**US-Russia war is the largest existential risk – those outweigh**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span>**Bostrom, ‘2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Oxford Unviersity, “Existential risk,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged …</span>__discount future benefits__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [15,16]. </span>

**Even a limited miscalculation scenario would cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ira </span>**Helfand**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, M.D., </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John O. </span>**Pastore****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> M.D., </span>**‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat,” 3-31, [[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]].</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons… Medvedev can do this on their own by executive order.</span>

==1ac plan text== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should deploy ground-based lasers to decrease space debris.**
==1ac solvency== 

**Contention three is solvency**

**A single laser facility could solve all debris in three years**
**The Economist, ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Scientists are increasingly worried about the amount of debris orbiting the Earth” Aug 19th 2010 [[http://www.economist.com/node/16843825?story_id=16843825&fsrc=rss]]) </span>
__The real threat now …be enough to remove all junk of this size in three years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**It’s feasible in the near-term and technology is constantly improving**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Orion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> study </span>__concluded …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have made significant progress in Orion-type technologies and “are eager to apply these to an international project.”184</span>**

Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>**
**__The most dangerous …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or avoided, but can be protected against by using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>**

Lasers aren’t weapons – it’d take them three months to knock out a single mid-sized satellite and operating tactics solve
Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ground-based lasers (</span>__GBL) …at the device location.__

=2ac -- space debris= 
==2ac at: topicality beyond the mesosphere== 
**1. We Meet – Debris is in the thermosphere**
**David, ’10** – Leonard, has reported on the space industry for more than five decades. Fmr editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines and has written for SPACE.com (99-Now). “A Real Mess in Orbit: Space Junk to Hang Around Longer Than Expected,” Space.com, [[http://www.space.com/8875-real-mess-orbit-space-junk-hang-longer-expected.html]].
<span class="Underline">While </span>greenhouse gases<span class="Underline"> cause….</span> removal," Lewis said.

**2. Counter interpretation – investigation is exploration**
**Bohlmann, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D., Legal Officer at the … of manned and unmanned spacecraft. </span>

**Lasers can track debris**
**TG Daily** 7/20/**10**
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">n Australian company __is to …__ laser tracking system," he said.</span>

**3. Counter Interpretation - earth-based exploration of space is topical**
**Lester, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy and serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC). Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, we should accept that “</span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">no longer a particularly relevant distinction.</span>

**Space development includes the facilities needed to sustain space technologies**
**NASA ‘10** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010, enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, October 11, accessed online, http://legislative.nasa.gov/PL%20111-267.pdf
__(b) CONTENT.— (1) At a minimum, the national space… and their application.__

**5. Counter Interpretation– space exploration is the expansion of human influence in space and no case meets if ours doesn’t**
**Faith, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Adjunct fellow @ Center for Strategic and International Studies. G. Ryan, “Giving NASA a clear mission,” The Space Review, 8/31, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]. </span>
<span class="Underline">If neither technology-oriented nor destination-oriented objectives seem able……**lay the groundwork for future missions**</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

==2ac at: space mil da== 

**B. Funding just quadrupled for unilateral tracking AND that’s space mil**
**Jakhu 10** – Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University (Dr. Ram Jakhu, with Cesar Jaramillo, Managing Editor Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines, Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, John Seibert, Project Ploughshares, Dr. Jennifer Simmons, The Simmons Foundation, Dr. Ray Williamson, Secure World Foundation, “Space Security 2010,” Space Security, August 2010, pp. 119-167, [[@https://webmail.glenbrook225.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=8ec167d6f43246cfa72871dca2aad1b5&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.spacesecurity.org%2fspace.security.2010.reduced.pdf|http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]])
__Space surveillance capabilities are also … in low Earth orbit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (LEO).3</span>

**C. Nations already perceive U.S weaponization**
**Brown, 9** (Spring, 2009, Trevor, Air Force Research Institute Center for Security Studies, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization”, [[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=cab359a3-9328-19cc-a1d2-8023e646b22c&lng=en&id=121733|__http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=cab359a3-9328-19cc-a1d2-8023e646b22c&lng=en&id=121733__]])
__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__has plans to weaponize space and is already deploying missile-defense platforms…..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and reconsidering commitments on arms control. </span>

**D. Pentagon Mission and X-37B**
**Burghardt, 10** (5/11/2010, Tom, Space Daily, “The Militarization of Space: The Pentagon’s Space Warriors”, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/The_Militarization_of_Outer_Space_The_Pentagon_Space_Warriors_999.html|__http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/The_Militarization_of_Outer_Space_The_Pentagon_Space_Warriors_999.html__]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now </span>__the Defense Department wants__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to ….. </span>__as offensive weapons.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">E. Mars rover not-uniques laser link </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Patrascu, 10</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (12/27/2010, Daniel, Autoevolution, “New Mars Rover gets Laser Weapons”,</span>[[http://www.autoevolution.com/news/new-mars-rover-gets-laser-weapons-28804.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martians, beware! </span>__The new Mars Rover….__ __tested in the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.__

**F. NSP Policy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**Shiga, ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Obama declares war on space junk,” New Scientist, June, [[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn19101-obama-declares-war-on-space-junk.html]]. </span>
Keeping<span class="Underline"> space </span>debris in check<span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NASA's Orbital Debris Program Office in Houston, Texas. "It will always be cheaper and easier to prevent debris rather than remove it after the fact.” </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">B. New lasers can’t be mistaken for weapons </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Choi, ’11</span> **–** Charles, Master’s @ University of Missouri—Columbia, 3-17,
[[http://www.space.com/11157-nasa-lasers-shooting-space-junk.html]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead of going up into space to bring down garbage…. Kessler syndrome," he added. </span>
==2ac at: obama good da== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No jobs – partisanship, GOP and not enough capital tomaneuver</span>**
**Sargent 11** (Greg Sargent, 10-12-11 – “Can the White House gain the initiative in jobs fight?” Washington Post, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/post/can-the-white-house-gain-the-initiative-in-jobs-fight/2011/10/12/gIQAGakGfL_blog.html]]</span>)
What’s interesting here is that<span style="text-decoration: none;">….to actually fix the problem</span>.

**No PC and it’s not key to any agenda item**
**Washington Post 10/13** (http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/democrats-thwart-obamas-bipartisan-goals-again/2011/10/12/gIQAk9IShL_blog.html)
But before the poll was released…<span style="text-decoration: none;">gives the Republicans a pass to vote no</span>.”

**Halting debris is a major Obama mission – seen as extension of NSP**
**Shiga 10** (David Shiga – “Obama declares war on space junk,” New Scientist, June, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn19101-obama-declares-war-on-space-junk.html]]</span>)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Keeping space debris in check ….</span>than remove it after the fact.”

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SLS forces high-stakes, high-cost battles</span>
**Boyle 11** (Alan Boyle, 9-16-11 – “The shape of space to come,” MSNBC Cosmic Blog, http://cosmiclog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/09/16/7802548-the-shape-of-space-to-come)
Space Launch System…blog and Space News.

**The plan is massively popular with key lawmakers and contractors**
**Politico 11** – Bresnahan, John and Raju, Manu, “Shooting for the Moon amid cuts,” April 20, 2011, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">For all the rhetoric about….</span>that were later canceled.

**No spillover between unrelated agenda items**
**Dickinson, 09** – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/,)
As for Sotomayor, from…to present Sotomayor as his nominee.

**Pol cap is a muscle that needs exercise**
**Halloran 10** (Liz Halloran is a Washington correspondent for NPR “For Obama, What A Difference A Week Made,” NPR April 6)
Amazing what a win in a … wait and see what his efforts produce.

==2ac at: obama bad da== 

**4. Debris removal is MASSIVELY expensive – it’s politically untenable**
**David, ’11** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leonard, Prize-Winning space journalist, National Space Club Press Award, and former editor-in-chief of the National Space Society’s Ad Astra and Space World Magazine, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, SPACE.com, [[http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Point of no return The concern over orbital debris….</span>untenable<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." Not a pretty space picture . </span>

**5. The link outweighs the turn – NO ONE in government supports debris removal – powerful political interests oppose it**
**Kaplan, ’10** – Marshall H., Ph.D, “Space Debris Realities and Removal,” 5-25, [[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/SMG/SOSTC/Workshop%20Documents/2010/Space%20Debris%20Removal%20-%20Kaplan.pdf]].
Debris clean up and maintenance operations may be funded<span class="Underline">….</span> a great deal more expensive.

**6. The plan costs tons of capital and there’s no payoff**
Nancy**Gallagher, ‘10** – Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, University ofMaryland. “Space Governance and International Cooperation,” Astropolitics, Volume 8 Issue 2, May, [[http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/space_governance_and_international_cooperation.pdf]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, there are good reasons for conceptualizing space cooperation as managing a global…</span><span class="Underline">rampant nuclear proliferation.</span>
==2ac at: russia cp== 
**Tracking is a prerequisite to removal**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> –Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D, “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
Space debris <span class="Underline">detection ... situational awareness.</span>

**Russia fails**
Cesar **Jaramillo** et al, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, <span style="color: #000000;">[</span>Space Security Index] **August 2011** [[http://www.spacesecurity.org/|www.spacesecurity.org]]
__Russia is the **only**__ **__..__**space surveillance information.
==2ac at: gender k== 
**Permutation do the plan and the parts of the alternative that don’t reject the plan – if the alternative can overwhelm the status quo it can overwhelm the link to the plan --- the K cedes the political**
**Saloom****2k6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Rachel, JD Univ of Georgia School of Law and M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies from U of Chicago, //A Feminist Inquiry into International Law and International Relations//, 12 Roger Williams U. L. Rev. 159, Fall 2006) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tickner's last point that deserves... level to bring about real change.</span>

C) **Reps don’t shape reality --- we can make accurate observations about the world**
Morten **Valbjørn**, PhD in the Department of Political Science @ Aarhus, **‘4** [//Middle East and Palestine: Global Politics and Regional Conflict,// “Culture Blind and Culture Blinded: Images of Middle Eastern Conflicts in International Relations,” p. 67-8]]
As mentioned before, the relational ... than at offering attractive answers.

**No prior questions**
**Hellmann, Prof of Poli Sci, 9** [Gunther Hellmann is a Senior Non-Resident Fellow at AICGS and a professor of political science at Goethe University, “Beliefs as Rules for Action: Pragmatism as a Theory of Thought and Action” __International Studies Review__, Volume 11, Issue 3, Pages 638-662]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While this is not the place for an in-depth analysis of ... "</span>__unhitches____" human beings from "a **useless structure of bad abstractions** **about thought**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">" (Menand 1997:xi).</span>





**b.** <span class="Cite">Reps of Russia are key to public debate and conflict resolution </span>

<span class="Cite">Cohen, ’10</span> – Stephen, Professor of Russian Studies and History at NYU, “US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen,” Interviewed by //The Nation//, May 25, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]].

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Journal: Let's focus on the idea that underlies this discussion: ... or that it would be so quickly lost?</span>



**c. Seuritization is crucial in attempts to solve the disease.**

Dr. Stefan **Elbe**, Ph.D. in International Relations and Senior Lecturer in International Relations at LSE, March, **2006** [Should HIV/AIDS be Securitized? The Ethical Dilemmas of Linking HIV/AIDS and Security, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 50, No. 1, BS]

The same is true regarding their other ...treatment and prevention programs.



**d. Realism is inevitable** because it is the only theory which explains the last thousand years of history – critical alternatives will either fail to topple realism or cause a more warlike international system

**Mearsheimer 95**, professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, 19**95** [John J., “a realist reply,” international security,” VOL.20, NO.1, P. 82-93, SUMMER, JSTOR]

<span class="Underline">Critical theory, </span>unlike Keohane and Martin's ... solid evidence to support their position.



**No impact to patriarchy**

**a) doesn’t cause war**

Goldstein 1 (Joshua S., Professor Emeritus of International Relations – American University, Adjunct Professor in the Watson Institute for International Studies – Brown University, War and Gender: How Gender Shapes the War System and Vice Versa, p. 412)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">First, </span>__peace__ **activists face a dilemma**__**...** war seems to be empirically inadequate.__

==2ac h5n1 add-on== 
**Satellites are vital to halting an H5N1 pandemic**
**Harmon, ‘9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks” 8/24, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than searching for weird … really </span><span class="Underline">remain isolated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he says.</span>

**Flu pandemic outweighs on certainty, size and intervening actors**
**Zakaria, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>flu pandemic is the … exists for today's deadliest threat.

==2ac radiation add-on== 
**Huge risk of radio-active debris hitting Earth**
Natalie **Pusey**, 2010 Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, [21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425] Spring, **2010**
Another possible danger of space … for manned space operations. n86

**Extinction**
**Nissani, 92** (Moti, writer who has examined the reception new scientific discoveries have received in history**,** 1992, “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”, http://www.is.wayne.edu/mnissani/PAGEPUB/CH2.html)
Some 15 percent of the bomb's … __all corners of the globe__.
==2ac nato add-on== 
**Space debris collapses NATO – space assets are crucial to their military transformation**
**Single 09** (Major Thomas Single, United States Air Force, Joint Air Power Competence Centre, “NATO Space Operations Assessment,” January 30, 2009, <span style="color: #000000;">https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/NATOSpaceO/file/_WFS/NATO%20Space%20Ops%20Assessment%20Jan%2009.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">4.2. </span>Modern military forces<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> now </span>takeSpace<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... strategic necessity and requires a COP.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">NATO military transformation prevents __extinction__ </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Albright et. al, 10 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(</span>**Madeline, former secretary of state under president Clinton, assistant professor at Georgetown School of Foreign Service, NATO group of experts, NATO 2020: Assured Security; Dynamic Engagement)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Military transformation: a work in progress</span>...<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the bravery of its citizens, and the free expression of its collective will.</span>

==2ac korea add-on== 
**Satellites are critical to ASW deterrence**
**Brown 10** (Peter J. Brown, journalist specializing in US satellite technology, former senior multimedia editor for “Via Satellite” magazine, “US Satellites Shadow China’s Submarines,” Asia Times, May 13, 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LE13Ad01.html</span>)
Detecting submarines via satellite ... locate and track PLAN submarines.

**ASW deterrence is uniquely key to prevent conflict – specifically incentivizes North Korean aggression**
**Finch 11** (Lieutenant Commander David P. Finch, EA Chief of Transformation, “Anti-submarine Warfare (ASW) Capability Transformation: Strategy of Response to Effects Based Warfare,” Collective C2 in Multinational Civil-Military Operations, Command and Control Research Program, 16th ICCRTS, Paper ID 103, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.dodccrp.org/events/16th_iccrts_2011/papers/103.pdf</span>)
The importance of<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> our ability... nation willing to apply the capability to achieve national objectives.</span>

**Global nuclear war – submarine attacks uniquely cause escalation**
**Stratfor 10** (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... situation escalates much further. </span>__
=negative= 
=topicality= 
==1nc t-substantial== 

**The aff’s not topical a substantial increase is 2.6 billion**
<span class="Underline">**Alexander, 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush...spending levels it cites are not binding on NASA. Nevertheless it does provide the agency with spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

==1nc t-satellites== 

**The aff’s not topical – exploration excludes Satellites in Earth’s orbit**
**Curtis 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Dr. Jeremy, Head of Education – UK Space Agency, et al., “Space Exploration Review”, British National Space Centre, December, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/lunar/strategies/UKSpaceExporationReview2009.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)\</span>
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2.4 What is space exploration? </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">…resources on the Moon or Near Earth Objects.</span>

**b) The aff is space tech not development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – </span>__former adjunct professor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at Golden Gate University his </span>__doctoral dissertation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> was titled “</span>__Outer Space Commerce__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development 9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eric </span>__Westling is a science writer__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">…</span> __the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space.__

**That’s a voting issue for limits – satellites blow the lid off of the topic, which eviscerates the depth of education, pre round preparation, core negative ground and undermines our ability to learn about space policy.**

==1nc t-humans== 

**The aff’s not topical – it doesn’t involve direct human presence**
**a) Exploration**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many believe that the only sustainable </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...provided in the MIT white paper.</span>__

**b) The aff is space tech not development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – </span>__former adjunct professor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> at Golden Gate University his </span>__doctoral dissertation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> was titled “</span>__Outer Space Commerce__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development 9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eric </span>__Westling is a science writer__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... of manned commercial projects in space.</span>__

**Voting issue for __Limits__ – humans create a clear bright line for what should and should not be topical – they allow satellites, remote sensing and a host of other activities which can’t be predicted.**

=counterplans= 
==1nc national security strategy cp== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The President of the United States should release a National Security Strategy, and corresponding implementation documents including the National Security Space Strategy and Quadrennial Defense Review, which states that adopting a policy of <> is vital to the national security of the United States of America.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The counterplan shapes policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Korb,** Duggan, and Conley, **9** — Senior Fellow at American Progress and a senior advisor to the Center for Defense Information, senior fellow and director of National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and former assistant Secretary of Defense, AND, Research Associate for national security at the Center for American Progress, AND, Special Assistant for National Security and International Policy (Lawrence J., Sean, and Laura, “Integrating Security”, The Center for American Progress, November 2009,[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/11/pdf/integrating_security.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">President Barack Obama and...</span> <span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">issuing this important guidance.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **The NSS affects policy, public opinion, and international perception**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Sagan, 9** — Professor of Political Science at Stanford (Scott D., “The Case for No First Use”, Survival, Vol. 53, Issue 3, June/July 2009)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mine is by no means the first r desired by the administration.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The consultative process of the CP avoids the link to politics </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baldwin, 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Matthew, “In Search of U.S. Grand Strategy: National Security Strategy since Goldwater-Nichols”, Senior Honors Thesis at Duke University, 2003, http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/03baldwin.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The importance of …to defense appropriations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The CP is also key to defuse inter-branch conflict </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hamilton, 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — director of the Woodrow International Center (Lee H., “A Creative Tension: The Foreign Policy Roles of the President and Congress”, pg. 76, 2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Given their shared responsibilities…</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and strengthens policy. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Preventing interbranch conflict’s critical to US leadership</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pastor</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, **91** — Professor of Political Science at Emory University (Robert A., “Congress and U.S. Foreign Policy: Comparative Advantage or Disadvantage,” Washington Quarterly, Autumn 1991, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The constitutional relationship…advantage of the United States.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg solves global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Khalilzad, 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Zalmay, RAND, Ambassador to Afghanistan, Washington Quarterly, Spring 1995)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Under the third option, …power system. </span>

==1nc memorandum cp== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text --- The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should issue and publish in the Code of Federal Regulations a memorandum on space policy that relevant United States entities should …</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Competes --- policy statements do not make law --- they’re legally distinct from the plan because they’re only position-taking</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Koch 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Charles H. Jr., Professor of Law – William and Mary School of Law, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary”, Alabama Law Review, Spring, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of … the public, nor the agency</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solves --- the Director has the power to issue non-legislative rules ---- shapes space policy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kueter 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeff, President – George C. Marshall Institute, “Evaluating the Obama National Space Policy: Continuity and New Priorities”, Marshall Policy Outlook, July, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/900.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In May 2006, we asked “Does … them which signals notable shifts.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The practical effect is identical to binding law --- memo sends a signal of the plan and agencies will comply</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hunnicutt 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, JD – Boston College Law School, “Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law”, Boston College Law Review, December, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rules created without process--interpretative … may factor into a proceeding's outcome. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c0ec9a064fe216c19e67ece199b6b99b&csvc=bl&cform=searchForm&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAA&_md5=0e45446f6db42a782b549545db19451d#n118|118]]</span>…. rules cannot have binding legal effects. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c0ec9a064fe216c19e67ece199b6b99b&csvc=bl&cform=searchForm&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAA&_md5=0e45446f6db42a782b549545db19451d#n131|131]]</span> Reality, however, may differ from this principle. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c0ec9a064fe216c19e67ece199b6b99b&csvc=bl&cform=searchForm&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAA&_md5=0e45446f6db42a782b549545db19451d#n132|132]]</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP’s process violates the APA and undermines administrative law --- perm doesn’t solve because it acts in accordance with legislation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Anthony 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert A., Foundation Professor of Law – George Mason University School of Law, “Interpretive Rules, Policy Statements, Guidances, Manuals, And The Like -- Should Federal Agencies Use Them To Bind The Public?”, Duke Law Journal, June, 41 Duke L.J. 1311, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">With one exception, the answer … problem addressed by this Article.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spills over</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kalen 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sam, Visiting Assistant Professor – Penn State University, “The Transformation of Modern Administrative Law: Changing Administrations and Environmental Guidance Documents”, Ecology Law Quarterly, 35 Ecology L.Q. 657, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Early in the opinion, Judge … the Code of Federal Regulations. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?cc=&pushme=1&tmpFBSel=all&totaldocs=&taggedDocs=&toggleValue=&numDocsChked=0&prefFBSel=0&delformat=XCITE&fpDocs=&fpNodeId=&fpCiteReq=&brand=&_m=74ac310076c537f12e8efe5a5d3fc51f&docnum=1&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzW-zSkAA&_md5=93e9632651372cfab6b3ead4cfe76412&focBudTerms=The+phenomenon+we+see+in+this+case+is+familiar.+Congress+passes+a+broadly+&focBudSel=all#n85|85]]</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Administrative law hamstrings agency regulation of broadband --- CP’s key to expanded access</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Strauss 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter, Not David Paul, Betts Professor of Law – Columbia Law School, “The APA at 65- Is Reform Needed to Create Jobs, Promote Economic Growth and Reduce Costs?”, Congressional Documents and Publications, 2-28, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As you may know, I have … federal regulation and deregulation. n3 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That solves disease spread and bioterrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mackenzie 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John and Peter Yellowlees, Professors of Microbiology and Parasitology – University of Queensland, “Telehealth Responses to Bio-Terrorism and Emerging Infections”, Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare, 9(Suppl. 2), p. 80-81)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The advent in February and … health outcomes for all groups. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Retaliation causes nuclear war --- quick containment’s key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Conley 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Harry W., Chief of the System Analysis Branch – Headquarters Air Combat Command, “Not with Impunity: Assessing US Policy for Retaliating to a Chemical or Biological Attack”, Air & Space Power Journal, Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The number of American casualties … , whatever promises had been made.”48 </span>

==1nc reg neg cp== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text – The United States Federal Government should begin a process of negotiated rulemaking over [area of plan], including an announced intention to [plan] within a year and convene affected parties for binding mediation over the substance of this policy. We’ll clarify.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Competes – it doesn’t fiat topical action. The process is uncertain and open-ended --- mutually exclusive with the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stach 97 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Mark, JD, West Virginia College of Law, U Iowa Journal of Corporation Law, Spring)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During the past twenty-five years, ….maintain this framework.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solves the whole case --- reg neg facilitates a consensus decision that’s legitimate and quickly enforced</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harter 97 (Philip J., Visiting Associate Professor and Director of the Program on Consensus, Democracy, and Governance – Vermont Law School, “Fear of Commitment: An Affliction of Adolescents”, Duke Law Journal, April, 46 Duke L.J. 1389, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most well developed of these…</span><span class="StyleUnderline3" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">they considered most valuable.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> [[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c2cefcf5146011fa56687a48a7cd33c3&docnum=20&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtb-zSkAl&_md5=444f442e596607894252b8bddb7955af&focBudTerms=The%20most%20well%20developed%20of%20these&focBudSel=all#n48#n48|48]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan drains capital --- policy change without prior negotiation causes political backlash and controversy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spain 96 (David, Professor – Queensland University of Technology Law School, Environmental Legal Systems, November, http://www.earthsharing.org.au/spaine.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3(c) Facilitation of Consensus </span><span class="StyleUnderline3" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Legislation cohering consensus …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and engenders acid rainfall elsewhere…</span>

=disads= 
==1nc sacred cow da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The economy is growing now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reuters, 12/14</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — news source (“US economic growth seen brighter into 2012”, 12/14/2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/14/us-economy-usa-poll-idUSTRE7BD16420111214)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The economy has probably….growing at their slowest pace in five months. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan’s untouchable fiat designates it as an off-budget project — this has a snowball effect and kills the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greenspan, 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — former Chairman of the Federal Reserve (Allen, CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, 4/17/1996)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">On behalf of myself and the…to control federal spending.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (Michael, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3/6/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">What do these trends mean…into a big bang. </span>
=dscovr neg= 
==1nc china conditions cp== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should threaten to launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point unless the People’s Republic of China discloses and acknowledges all accounts of its human rights abuses in the region and follow regulations on human rights set by the United States Federal Government. The United States Federal abide by the outcome of the condition.**

**The CP is key to restore human rights credibility**
**Douglas 11** [Political Writer for McClatchy Washington Bureau. “Activists Decry U.S. Silence on Bahrain’s Crackdown.” McClatchey Newspaper. Accessed 8/30/11. [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2011/05/13/v-print/114197/activists-decry-us-silence-on.html]] //TD]//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>Human rights activists ....throughout the region."//

**That comes first**
**DFA 98** [Department of Foreign Affairs. 1/12/98. "’Moral obligation to advance human rights at home and abroad’ O'Donnell.” DFA. Accessed 9/1/11. [[http://www.dfa.ie/home/index.aspx?id=26895]] TD]
"Human rights are the birthright of all human beings.....peacekeeping and asylum issues".
==1nc adv cp== 
**The United States federal government should deploy a system using ground-based radio transmitters to bathe the space in radio waves during solar storm peaks.**

**CP successfully shields against a solar flare – solves the internal links and impacts**
**O’Neill 08** (Ian O’Neill, founder and editor of Astroengine, Universe Today, “<span style="color: #111111;">Possible Solution to Solar Flare Damage to Satellites,” </span>June 7, 2008, [[http://www.universetoday.com/14896/possible-solution-to-solar-flare-damage-to-satellites/]], Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When a solar flare blasts energetic particles....</span><span class="Underline"> from a ground-based transmitter.</span>
==1nc ula da== 
**The ULA monopoly on space launch is collapsing now which will save the aerospace industry – must avoid purchasing decisions so SpaceX doesn’t get locked out of the market**
**Money** (B.A. in History from Auburn University and a M.A. in Science, Technology and Public Policy from The George Washington University) **12/11** (Stewart, Competition and the future of the EELV program, December 12, 2011 http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1990/1)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the last five years, United Launch Alliance (</span>__ULA__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">), the joint venture ... in stark contrast the differences between SpaceX and ULA. </span>

**But if the plan happens now SpaceX won’t be able to compete – Short term purchases of launch vehicles will lock SpaceX out the market and ensure ULA dominance**
**Money** (B.A. in History from Auburn University and a M.A. in Science, Technology and Public Policy from The George Washington University) **12/11**
(Stewart, Competition and the future of the EELV program, December 12, 2011
http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1990/1)
__For the moment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, at least, </span>__ULA’s advantage lies in the fact that__ **__...__** and which questioned the USAF’s ability to make an informed decision based on the limited information available.

**ULA monopoly collapses US commercial launch competitiveness**
**Green et al.** (CSIS) **10**
(Brian Green, Joshua Hartman, Gary Powell, Stephanie Sanok, Guy Ben-Ari, Center for International and Strategic Studies, July 2010 National Security and the Commercial Space Sector)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These effects can be seen in launch scheduling, the current practice of ... operators makes addressing some of these problems difficult. </span>

**Kills competitiveness and heg**
**Green et al.** (CSIS) **10**
(Brian Green, Joshua Hartman, Gary Powell, Stephanie Sanok, Guy Ben-Ari, Center for International and Strategic Studies, July 2010 National Security and the Commercial Space Sector)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Long-term implications for U.S. national security if current plans and</span> __<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">...and </span>loses its leadership in space as a result__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**Competitiveness prevents balance of power transitions that cause __great power war__ --- now is key to reverse shifts**
Sanjaya **Baru 2009** is a Visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 163 - 168
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Hence, </span>__economic policies and performance____...through a nation's inability to find adequate financial resources to simultaneously sustain economic growth and **military power**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

==2nc ula da== 
**Programs cut now – new launches would require new contract**
**Spaceflight Now 11/23/11** <span style="font-size: 16px;">– “Reduced budget threatens delay in private spaceships” http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1111/23commercialcrew/</span>
__This year's NASA budget halves the requested funding for the__ __...__ dampened, Mango said.

**Have to avoid locking in contracts until SpaceX is competitive or price lock in is inevitable**
**Gelber 12/1**
(Luke, GAO Skewers United Launch Alliance Contract Plans, December 1, 2011 http://www.cagw.org/newsroom/waste-watcher/2011/december/gao-skewers-united-launch.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In 2011, the DOD and NRO announced plans to spend $15 billion...burning nothing but money.</span>

**They’re normal means**
**Ben-Ari et al.**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (CSIS) </span>**10** (Guy Ben-Ari, Brian Green, Joshua Hartman, Gary Powell, Stephanie Sanok, Center for International and Strategic Studies, April 30, 2010 Draft National Security and the Commercial Space Sector)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Today, domestic competition in the launch market ... of reliable access to launch dates is a serious liability. Further, the commercial satellite launch market is small and projected to remain so.71</span>

**Government agencies all contract to ULA**
**ULA No Date** ([[http://www.ulalaunch.com/site/pages/About_Overview.shtml]])
Formed in December 2006, United Launch Alliance ... value and continuous improvement.
==1nc politics da== 

**And the plan will mire Obama in political wrangling**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span>**[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era [[http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange … other networks and spaceborne platforms”</span>

==1nc solar flares adv.== 
**Not inherent – DSCOVR is going to be launched in time**
**Foust 11** (Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of the Space Review, “When the Sun Sneezes,” The Space Review, 2/21/11, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1783/1]], Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To address this, the NOAA 2012....view of the Earth’s sunlit hemisphere.</span>

**Debris destroys GPS and the aff**
**Jaramillo 11** Cesar Jaramillo et al, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, <span style="color: black;">[</span>Space Security Index] August 2011 [[http://www.spacesecurity.org/|www.spacesecurity.org]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space </span>debris poses a significant, ....<span style="font-size: 8pt;">one of its satellites in 2007.</span>

**Makes their impacts inevitable**
Megan <span class="Underline">**Ansdell, ’10**</span> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]].
<span class="underline0">There are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently </span><span class="underline0">hundreds of ...</span>systems, and interrupt electric power grids<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>

**Even scientists agree – solar flares are not a big deal – take a chill pill**
**Foust 11** (Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of the Space Review, “When the Sun Sneezes,” The Space Review, 2/21/11, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1783/1]], Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Is that the reasonable worst case that we should......said. “We’ve got to be slightly scared by these events; otherwise, we won’t take them seriously.”</span>

**Status quo NASA monitoring and maneuvers solves risk of blackouts**
**Phillips 6/22** -- science writer and editor at NASA (Dr. Tony, 2011, "Getting ready for the next big solar storm,"<span style="color: black;">http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-06-ready-big-solar-storm.html</span>, RG)
"We can<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now </span>track the progress of solar storms.....for a few hours could forestall weeks of regional blackouts<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," says Pulkkinen.</span>

**No solvency – scientists can’t interpret satellite data**
**Psychology Press 01** (The environment encyclopedia and directory 2001, “Antarctic Ozone Hole” Vol. 3 asb)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international </span>scientific community was....<span style="font-size: 8pt;">responsible for the hold’. </span>

**Solar rays makes solvency impossible**
**Taylor 07** – Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command; B.A, Berry College; J.D. University of Georgia; LL.M. (Air and Space Law), McGill University (Michael W. “Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth’s Orbital Debris Problem,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 2007, Gale)
<span class="Underline">Without Earth's atmosphere to protect them, </span>satellites.....the operation of satellites.

=ors neg= 
==**1nc hlv pic**== 

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase non-dual use development of Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 operational platforms through all necessary launch vehicles other than Hybrid Launch Vehicles and meet all designated goals.**

**No offense and it competes**
**<span style="color: black;">Brown ‘06</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – Researcher at College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research, & Education, Lieutenant Colonel USAF, Ph.D. & Researcher at College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research, & Education at Maxwell Airforce Base & Liquid-Rocket-Engine System Engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Fligth Center, (Kendall, Air and Space Power Journal, Summer, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html)</span>
Perhaps we won’t need an HLV to support the ORS construct...might be a better solution.

**And they guarantee miscalc and accidental nuclear war**
**Brown, 6** – Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html</span>, Sawyer)
__Inclusion of a global strike capability might have a destabilizing effect on world affairs in times of...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in essence, we would be asking the world to trust us in a time of hostilities.</span>

**And it leads to preemption – turns case**
**Brown, 6** – Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html</span>, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The political environment in ....</span>__the ORS system? Probably so.__

==__1nc ors pic__== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of new military launch technology for small satellite constellations and rapid reconstitution capabilities that allow launch on demand and technology development programs for improvement of space situational awareness, satellite maneuverability, and satellite hardening.**

**The term ‘ORS’ is vague – turns the case**
**Larrimore, 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>)RK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A sampling of these writings reveals one thing:</span>**.......**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Replacing space assets that have been disabled by attack or natural phenomenon 3. Enhancing space situational awareness6</span>

**Specifying ORS is key to effective policymaking**
**GAO 2k8** – US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]]</span> /mr)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DOD Has Not Clearly Defined the ORS Concept:........be included in the remaining documents.</span>

**Lack of definition kills warfighting needs**
**GAO 2k8** – US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]]</span> /mr)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DOD Has Not Communicated Effectively with Key Stakeholders: .....</span>**__opportunities to meet warfighter needs.__**

**Warfighter needs key to readiness, especially in Iraq and Afghanistan**
**GAO 2k11** – US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Warfighter Support: DOD’s Urgent Needs Processes Need a More Comprehensive Approach and Evaluation for Potential Consolidation,” Summary, 3/1/2k11, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-273]]</span> /mr)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smmary </span>__Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan .......____DOD concurred with the recommendations.__

**US military readiness prevents rivals from lashing out against the US**
**Spencer 2k** – Research Fellow at the Institute for Economic Policy Studies (9/15/2000, Jack, Research Fellow at Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, Heritage Foundation, “The Facts About Military Readiness,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-Readiness)
__America's national security requirements .....____aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.__
==1nc politics da== 

**Congress won’t support ORS**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (James, </span>Colonel U.S. Air Force, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”)
__Whether the DOD will decide to develop any small......__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">keeping it in storage does not appear to support a winning space strategy.</span>

==1nc deterrence adv.== 

**Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large**
**Morgan, 10** – defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Difficulties of Denial-Based … of them suffer certain limitations.</span>

**China’s not a threat – tech and commercial focus**
**Bao, 7** – senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute (Winter 2007, Shixiu, China Security, “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the need for an … be a threat to other countries.</span>

**Vulnerability doesn’t affect US superiority – China won’t attack**
**Hagt, 8** – director of the China Program at the World Security Institute and is editor of China Security Quarterly (2/26/08, Eric, Survival, “China’s Military Space Strategy; An Exchange – ‘Mirror-Imaging and Worst-Case Scenarios,’” Vol. 50, No. 1, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/SurvivalTellis.pdf, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tellis overstates both China’s ability … which have powerful ASAT capabilities.</span>

**No invasion of Taiwan**
**Watts, 11** – Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic & Budgetary Assessments (Barry, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA; COMMITTEE: SENATE U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION,” 5/11, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most common scenarios for a … subdue the enemy without fighting.</span>

**Cyberattacks will disable US space assets**
**Donahue, 10** – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])
__Another unpredictable driving force that … impact space systems for years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.90</span>

==1nc development adv.== 

**Maintaining a ready to launch capability wipes out any cost savings**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (James, </span>Colonel U.S. Air Force, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”)
__Other considerations complicate a responsive space …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">new approaches for military space.87</span>

**a) Export control policies, environmental concern, and workforce crisis**
**Platzer, 9** (12/3/2009, Michael D., Specialist in Industrial … )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Export Controls Many industry analysts … </span>services, and increasingly other countries.

**b) Aging workforce and decline in STEM education**
**DOLETA, 5** (5/2005, Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration, “America’s Aerospace Industry: Identifying and Addressing Workforce Challenges Report of Findings and Recommendations For The President’s High Growth Job Training Initiative in the Aerospace Industry”, [[http://www.doleta.gov/brg/indprof/aerospace_report.pdf]])
“__The industry is confronted … to advance the U.S. aerospace industry.”__

**3. Can’t save the industrial base – terminal problems**
**Hertzfeld, 11** – Research Professor of Space Policy and International Affairs in the Space Policy Institute and the Center for International Science and Technology Policy at The George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs (Henry, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])
Below, some examples are listed.33 … for security, not commercial purposes.

**4. No risk of resource conflict**
**a) Resources are infinite— we’ll never run out**
**Geddes 4** (Marc, Writer and Libertarian Analyst, “The Monster Non-Socialist Faq”, February 12, http://solohq.com/War/MonsterFAQ.shtml)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Answer: </span>A significant disruption to supplies … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">which generates wealth the fastest.</span>

**b) Lack of resources does not cause wars**
**Victor, 7** [Nov/Dec, David, prof law – stanford, “What Resources Wars?” National Interest]
__RISING ENERGY prices and mounting … resources but a dearth in governance.__

=sps neg= 
==1nc interference da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">SPS interferes with radio astronomy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Masatoshi </span>**<span class="citesChar" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ohishi</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **11** - National Astronomical Observatory of Japan (20 Aug. 2011 “Impact to the Radio Astronomy by the Interference caused by the Solar Power Satellite Systems” National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, 2-21-1, Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo, 181-8588 Japan, http://ursigass2011.org/abstracts/ursi/CHGBDJK-9.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solar power satellite (SPS) systems…caused by a SPS to radio astronomy observations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Radio astronomy key to asteroid detection – key to solve potential impacts.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Irvine et. al. 05** – (2005, edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, and Itziar Aretxaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE, written by joint panels and published jointly by Five College Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica (INAOE), “Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” in The Large Millimeter Telescope Book, http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/lmtbook.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, such </span><span class="underlinedChar" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">transmitters for mm…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">order to monitor the echo).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, Arecibo Observatory is key to asteroid detection.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Fortuno 07** – (2007, Luis, “H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Arecibo Observatory is …by near-Earth objects. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Matheny, 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even if extinction events are…risks we face and the costs of mitigating them.20</span>
==1nc space mil da== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** – senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This background is essential for appreciating how...guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**But the plan would derail cooperation and facilitate the offensive weaponization of space**
**Pop, 2k** – PhD Student, Law School, University of Glasgow (Virgiliu, “Security Implications of Non-Terrestrial Resource Exploitation,” Paper presented at the 43rd Colloquium on the Law of Outer Space, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/security_implications_of_non_terrestrial_resource_exploitation.shtml)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although </span>Solar Power Satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> were envisioned as an energy program, </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">makers must find appropriate safeguards.</span>

**And the plan's unilateral nature g****uarantees backlash**
**Schwab, 2** – director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs (Martin, “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With regard to Ridges’s call for mitigation of any and all potential...</span>energy for planet Earth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The terminal impact is extinction**
**Mitchell, et al. 01** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of ...</span>military conflict ever seen.__

==1nc resources adv.== 
**No transportation**
**Nansen, 95** - led the Boeing team of engineers in the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]]</span> for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Sun Power</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]]</span>)
It is the initial development cost...Space Station, would be considerably less than the Saturn/Apollo lunar landing program.

**No peak oil and tech solves anyways**
**VOA News 08** Dr. Michael J. Economides Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering “Is the world running out of oil?” http://www.voanews.com/english/news/a-13-2008-03-05-voa7-66810217.html
Some analysts maintain that after large oil fields are explored...."We have gone below 10-thousand feet of water, which would have been unthinkable 15 years ago. So all of these things extend reserves and world production capacity."

**SPS fails—can’t meet demand or replace oil**
**Nansen 9** led the Boeing team of engineers in the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]]</span> for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Energy Crisis: Solution from Space, P.165, FS)
The demand for electrical energy is....<span style="text-decoration: none;">replace atmospheric pollution systems that are causing global warming, and build up capability to replace oil</span>.

**No risk of resource wars—shortages don’t trigger military confrontation**
**Victor 7**— professor of law at Stanford Law School and the director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development. He is also a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (David, Nov 14, 2007, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/IK14Dj04.html]]</span>, “What resource wars?”, ZBurdette)
Rising energy prices and mounting … of odds and risk management

==**1nc warming adv.**== 
**No tech**
**Day, 8** (Dwayne, “Knights in shining armor,” The Space Review, 6/9, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1)
__The NSSO study....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fallen in love with the messenger.</span>

**Satellite data shows warming is slow and not anthropogenic**
<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 7pt;">Edited by S. Fred </span>**<span style="color: #010000;">Singer</span>**<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 7pt;">, Distinguished Research Prof. @ George Mason U and Prof. Emeritus of Environmental Sciences @ U of Virginia, 3/2/</span>20**08** (24 Authors (Available), “Nature, Not Human Activity, Rules the Climate”, Science and Environment Policy Project and the Heartland Institute, p. 4-9)
<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 7pt;">Is there a method that can distinguish AGW from natural warming? The....</span>The global temperature record is unreliable.

**There is no warming – colder temperatures and natural interactions offset anthropogenic factors**
**NIPCC ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, multi-national scientific coalition comprised of leading climate scientists, “Acknowledging Recent Natural Cooling,” http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a1.html,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper entitled "A strong bout of natural cooling in 2008," which was published....we clearly do not fully</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">comprehend</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Chinese localities means no solvency**
Elizabeth C. **Economy**, C. V. Starr Senior Fellow and Director for Asia Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, September/October **2007**
(The Great Leap Backward, Foreign Affairs)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, much of this...</span>__up political and economic reforms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
==1nc solvency== 
**Too far off --- SPS isn’t technologically feasible**
**Day 08** (Dwayne Day, 6-9-2008, “Knights in Shining Armor,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1)
You may not have noticed, but the space activist…and fallen in love with the messenger.

**ITAR regulations block solvency**
**Rouge 07** (Joseph D. Rouge, Acting director of National Security Space Office, 10-9-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power,” http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)
Application of the International Traffic Arms Regulations (<span style="text-decoration: none;">ITAR</span>) <span style="text-decoration: none;">may constitute…could not take place effectively without</span> some special consideration or <span style="text-decoration: none;">modification</span>.

**Long timeframe even if the obstacles are overcome**
**Foust, 08** – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, “Energy vs. space”, The Space Review, 7/14, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1169/1]])
Another common response, of course, is to cite…The Space Review, June 9, 2008).

**Space debris limits solvency – it blows up SPS**
**Akahoshi 08** (Y. Akahoshi, Kyush Inst. Of Tech, et al, July 2008, “Influence of Space Debris,” International Journal of Impact Engineering, p. sd)
Recently, <span style="text-decoration: none;">long duration operations spacecraft</span>, higher in power, higher in potential…suggested as a cause of trouble of geostationary satellite Tempo-2.

**We can’t manufacture the necessary SPS microwave transmitters**
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Manufacturability would be one of the….which is a significant technical challenge.</span>

**No accurate beaming means we can’t even get the energy**
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Another important issue concerning</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">spacebased microwave antenna is</span> the….errors over the antenna array to a few degrees.

**Absent economics, it still takes 6,000 years – that assumes the best launch capabilities**
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
The number of launches required…<span style="text-decoration: none;">to establish the entire fleet of SPS.</span>

**No antenna arrays to transmit and convert the solar power and litany of other engineering challenges deck solvency**
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Various types of antennas on SPS have been considered….and very-low-cost mass production of these elements.</span>
==<span style="text-decoration: none;">2nc solvency </span>== 
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">And radiation and debris mean we can’t build the SPS</span>**
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
A number of alternate SPS designs have evolved since…to problems caused by radiation exposure and space debris.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Even if the material survives in orbit, we have </span>no****<span style="text-decoration: none;"> idea how to put it together – every proposal so far has been developed to the extent of a </span>PowerPoint Presentation** </span>
**Rapp 07** (Donald Rapp, Associate Editor of the Mars Journal, independent contractor and consultant for NASA, former Chief Technologist of the Mechanical and Chemical Systems Division at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, PhD, Berkeley, professor at the University of Texas, “Assessment of Concepts for Utilizing Lunar Resources (1) Solar Power from Space or the Moon (2) 3He from the Moon for Fusion on Earth (3) Utilization of Lunar Resources for Space Missions,” [[http://home.earthlink.net/%7Edrdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf|http://home.earthlink.net/~drdrapp/Space.solar.power.pdf]], Sawyer)
Reference [S8] says: “construction of the SPS represents a….to be developed only to the PowerPoint level.

=asteroids neg= 
==1nc asteroids kritik== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff’s narrative of technological salvation from asteroids guarantees unchecked militarization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Felicity **Mellor, 2007** [Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space, Social Studies of Science 37: 499, http://sss.sagepub.com/content/37/4/499.full.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the late 1980s, a small group of ...civilian and defence scientists were mutually supportive.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **This space militarization makes the US the ultimate arbiter of life and death – renders whole populations to bare life**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Raymond **Duvall**, poli sci at Minnesota, and Jonathan Havercroft, **2006**, poli sci at U. of British Colombia, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World”, October, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/sites/liu/files/Publications/Havercroft_paper.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This scenario is fascinating for ...and this state of exception in many cases may be exercised by the use of space weapons that constituted this sovereign in the first place.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alternative: Vote negative to reject the aff’s politics of fear—This solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Felicity **Mellor, 2007** [Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space, Social Studies of Science 37: 499, http://sss.sagepub.com/content/37/4/499.full.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But the focus on ... towards more peaceful ends.</span>

=property rights neg= 
==1nc debris da== 
**Property rights would increase space debris**
**Cherian and Abraham 07** (Jijo George Cherian and Job Abraham are is a Final Year Students of law, B.A.LLB (Hons) degree program, at the National University of Advanced Legal Studies in Kochi, India, 2007, “Concept of Private Property in Space – An Analysis,” The Journal of International Commerical Law and Technology)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">One of the primary concerns is the degradation</span><span class="underline">…</span>tests in space, space tourism will cause its fair share of problems including despoilment of the moon surface.

==1nc politics da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan causes a political firestorm</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gangale</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 200</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas, executive director of OPS-Alaska, “Castles in the Air: Debunking the Space Settlement Prize”, Jan, http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/ASM2008_CastlesInTheAir.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is rare for Congress to…foreign policy apparatus of the United States works. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Not a single Congress-person supports the plan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Gangale** and Dudley-Rowley, 200</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas, executive director of OPS-Alaska and Marilyn, CEO and chief research scientist at OPS-Alaska, “To Build Bifrost: Developing Space Property Rights and Infrastructure”, 6/7, http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/Submissions/To%20Build%20Bifrost.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alan Wasser, a former chairman of…Congress has introduced such a bill.</span>
==1nc heidegger kritik== 
**The affirmatives attempt to explore/develop space denies Earthbound ontology, destroying our ability to connect with our ‘world’**
**Turnbull 6**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus: Global Being in the Planetary World”, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">Theory, Culture & Society </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2006 (SAGE, London, Thousand Oaks and New Delhi), Vol. 23(1): 125–139, Project Muse MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">What Nietzsche is suggesting here is that with the ... – required for the efficient maintenance of purely technological relationships – becomes the anthropocentric measure of all things). </span>

**Such forms of technological thought only create the conditions that are the pre-requisite for nuclear wars—the consequences of such thought are more devastating than extinction**
**Caputo 93**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy (John Caputo, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">Demythologizing Heidegger</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In his essay "The Thing" </span>__Heidegger remarks ...__ a more inward, profound, essential, authentic, **__ontological destruction__**__.__

**Our alternative isn’t a fatalistic rejection of technology—rather rejection is a form of releasement that reorients our relationship towards technological modes of thought**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Botha 02</span>** (Catherine, Dept. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebscohost)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Homelessness is the mood of the technological age.... that has been nurtured for two and a half millennia in the West has encouraged this technological servitude.</span>

==1nc moon wars adv.== 
**No moon race- their evidence is an exaggeration**
**Day,** **7** (11/12/07, Dwayne A., The Space Review, “Exploding Moon myths: or why there’s no race to our nearest neighbor,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/999/1]], JMP)
Germany recently announced that they possibly, maybe, might launch a robotic spacecraft to the Moon.….are planning, or at least discussing, sharing their data. This is not a “space race” by any definition.

**There is multilateralism in space now __from the US__ -- status quo solves their internal links and impacts**
**Huntley, 11** – senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This background is essential for appreciating how </span>__...__ Many devils may lurk in these details.

**No impact**
**Deudney, 99** (Daniel, Asst Prof of Poli Sci at Johns Hopkins, Contested Grounds: Security and Conflict in the New Environmental Politics )
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Another major limitation of</span>__...__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (see figure 8.1).</span>

=climate sats neg= 
==1nc esa cp== 
**Text: The European Union should substantially increase its space-based climate monitoring capabilities** **through the European Space Agency. The European Space Agency should make the data available to the United States Federal Government**

**The CP solves – they have advance monitoring tech**
**Godoy, 5-21-2011**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Julio, Correspondent for IPS, Space Agency Maps Mosquitos to Combat Disease, IPS news, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=55859]]</span>) </span>
__"In cases like these, …conditions propitious to the reproduction of mosquitoes and the spread of malaria.__

==1nc coercion da== 
**NASA is a coercive shakedown — it violently stifles scientific innovation and fails — rejecting government control is key to ethics**
**Boyack, 8** — senior web developer at Eli Kirk, political economist, and social media consultant, State Coordinator for the Tenth Amendment Center in Utah, Bachelors in Information Technology, BYU, masters in Political Economy, George Wythe University, (Connor, “NASA, Legalized Theft, and a Waste of Money”, 5/27/2008, http://www.connorboyack.com/blog/nasa-legalized-theft-and-a-waste-of-money)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since its inception, so-…</span> __$17 billion in taxes from U.S. citizens each year by force? **Absolutely not.**__

**Individual liberty comes first — every instance is key**
**Petro, 74** (Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, one may still insist, …</span>__invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
==1nc decadal cp== 
**Text: The National Research Council should include that the United States federal government should substantially increase its space-based climate monitoring capabilities as a Priority 1 recommendation in the 2014-2023 Decadal Survey for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.**

**The CP results in the plan and builds political consensus**
**Space Politics, 3/23/11** (“Would a Human Spaceflight Decadal Survey be Useful?” http://www.spacepolitics.com/2011/03/23/would-a-human-spaceflight-decadal-survey-be-useful/, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tucked away </span>__in last year’s …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“That is my sincere hope.”</span>

**And it signals priorities and bolsters policy confidence while engaging the scientific community**
**Dewhurst, 6** – Senior Program Associate for the <span style="color: #000000;">National Academies’ Board on Physics and Astronomy (3/6/06, Brian D. Dewhurst, The Space Review, “NASA, Astronomers, and the Establishment of Research Priorities,” </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/572/1]], Sawyer)
The decadal survey <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and earth sciences.</span>

**And it’s key to __sustainable__ human exploration in space**
**Atkins and Newton, 10** – *Chuck, former chief of staff to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology AND Elizabeth, director for aerospace and defense policy at the University of Alabama (5/10/10, Space News, “Take the Chaos out of U.S. Space Policy,” [[http://www.uah.edu/systemstudies/EventTicker/Articles%20and%20Resources/CSS%20In%20the%20News%20Take_the_Chaos_Out_of_U.S._Space_Policy.pdf]], Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Political choices about the space …</span>continuity to these reviews if we are to have any hope of policy stability.

**Extinction**
**Fox News 10**** (“Abandon Earth or Face Extinction, Stephen Hawking Warns – Again”, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/08/09/abandon-earth-face-extinction-warns-stephen-hawking/, 6/9/10)
It's time to abandon Earth,<span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "These days I’m not so cautious.”</span>
==1nc solvency== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The plan doesn’t solve – multiple warrants </span>**</span>
**Rogers and Gulledge 10** (Will Rogers, Research Assistant, Joseph S. Nye Jr. Internship Coordinator, Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge, Senior Scientist, Director for Science and Impacts, Pew Center on Global Climate Change, non-resident Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security, Next Generation Fellow of the American Assembly at Columbia University, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for a New American Security, April 2010, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]], Sawyer)
<span class="Underline">Multiple barriers impede improved …the scientific and national security policy communities.</span>

**No solvency – scientists can’t interpret satellite data**
**Psychology Press 01** (The environment encyclopedia and directory 2001, “Antarctic Ozone Hole” Vol. 3 asb)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The international</span>__scientific community …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">for the hold’. </span>

**Can’t solve – no launch vehicles**
**Wigbels et. al, 08** (July 2008, Lyn Wigbels, senior associate of Technology and Public Policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, G. Ryan Faith, CSIS Human Space Exploration Initiative, Vincent Sabathier, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic Studies, “Earth Observations and Global Change,” Sawyer)
__Another issue that needs to be …platforms and instruments.__

==1nc disease adv.== 

**Their 1AC Ford evidence isolates cholera, waterborne diseases, malaria, HPS, and H5N1 — it also __concludes neg__ on each of these —**
**A) They don’t solve waterborne diseases**
**Ford**, et. al, **11** – Timothy E. Ford,, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA, Rita R. Colwell, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Joan B. Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA Stephen S. Morse, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA David J. Rogers, University, Oxford, UK and Terry L. Yates, and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (“Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538)
__A rise in sea level__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, combined with increasingly …domestic animal practices, waste disposal—are exacerbated by flooding.</span>

**B) Status quo solves cholera, it’s empirically denied, and they don’t solve**
**Ford**, et. al, **11** – Timothy E. Ford,, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA, Rita R. Colwell, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Joan B. Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA Stephen S. Morse, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA David J. Rogers, University, Oxford, UK and Terry L. Yates, and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (“Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538)
__Effective prediction …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in advance of an epidemic.</span>

**C) Alt causes to malaria and vector disease**
**Ford**, et. al, **11** – Timothy E. Ford,, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA, Rita R. Colwell, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Joan B. Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA Stephen S. Morse, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA David J. Rogers, University, Oxford, UK and Terry L. Yates, and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (“Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Other emerging and reemerging …could allow population susceptibility at any given time to be estimated.</span>

**D) Warming doesn’t trigger HPS, satellites fail, and it’s empirically denied**
**Ford**, et. al, **11** – Timothy E. Ford,, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA, Rita R. Colwell, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA Joan B. Rose, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA Stephen S. Morse, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA David J. Rogers, University, Oxford, UK and Terry L. Yates, and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (“Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, January 12, Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, http://www.eoearth.org/article/Satellite_Imagery_in_Predicting_Infectious_Disease_Outbreaks?topic=49538)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Although </span>__considerable uncertainty…__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">variables being measured (i.e., vegetation, soil type, soil moisture) and their relation to rodent population dynamics.</span>

==1nc insurance adv.== 

**Empirically denied – even big flares don’t have a lasting or broad impact – their ev**
**Derbyshire 11** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]
The sun goes through a regular …<span class="Underline">caused blackouts across </span>the Canadian province of <span class="Underline">Quebec</span>, the U.S. space agency said.

**They don’t solve – policy-makers won’t react to their data in time – your author**
**Brooks 09** – consultant for New Science (Michael, 3-23-2009, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, “Space Storm Alert: 90 Seconds from Catastrophe,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ntia.doc.gov/legacy/broadbandgrants/comments/7927.pdf]]</span>.
So what should be done? No one knows yet - the report is meant to spark that conversation. Baker is worried, though, …like that is going to happen again."

**They don’t solve – huge tech delays – their author**
**Stolper et. al, 04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– is William E. Leonhard Professor of Geology at the California Institute of Technology, Anny Cazenave is a senior scientist at the Centre National d’Etudes Spatiales and deputy director of the Laboratory for Space Studies in Geophysics and Oceanography at Toulouse University, Catherine G. Constable is a professor of geophysics at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Francis A. Dahlen, Jr., is department chair and a professor of geosciences at Princeton University, William E. Dietrich is a professor of geomorphology at the University of California, Berkeley, Bradford H. Hager is Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Earth Sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Grant Heiken recently retired as a volcanologist in the Earth and Environmental Science Division at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). Prior to joining LANL in 1975, he worked in NASA’s Lunar Receiving Laboratory during the Apollo and Skylab programs, R. Keith Raney is a principal professional staff scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL). Prior to joining the APL staff, he spent 18 years at the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing, where he was chief radar scientist and co-founder of RADARSAT, Canada’s first remote sensing satellite program, Frank M. Richter is Sewell Avery Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago, Mousumi Roy is an assistant professor of geophysics at the University of New Mexico, Lianxing Wen is an assistant professor of geophysics at the State University of New York, Anne M. Linn is a senior program officer with the Board on Earth Sciences and Resources of the National Academies [“ Review of NASA's Solid-Earth Science Strategy,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11084.html] </span>
__Longer-term goals focus on …__Without proper data analysis the instruments will be ineffective in meeting scientific objectives.

**Rising losses create demand for new insurance coverage – it’s self-correcting**
**Mils 09** – Ph.D. University of California U.S. Department of Energy Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Environmental Energy Technologies Division Energy Analysis Department (Evan, “A Global Review of Insurance Industry Responses to Climate Change”http://evanmills.lbl.gov/pubs/pdf/gpp200914a.pdf)
To be sure, rising losses<span class="Underline"> will …</span>of micro-insurance,
==1nc soft power adv.== 

**No impact to hegemony**
**Friedman 10** research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html)
__A__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nother </span>__argument for__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> high </span>__military spending …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">heighten our force requirements and threaten to drag us into wars, while providing no obvious benefit. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">US can’t solve failed states</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **Zakaria, 10**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Fareed, editor of Newsweek International, “The Real Failed State Risk,” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/19/the-real-failed-state-risk.html]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> __<span style="color: #333333;">The trouble …</span>__</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">dilemmas are on full display in Afghanistan right now.</span>

**Science leadership not key to soft power – their evidence mistakes __correlations of cooperation__ with a __causality__**
**Dickson,’09**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[David, Direction Science & Development Network. June 2, 2009, “Science diplomacy: the case for caution”, [[http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new-%20frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009|http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new- frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009]], SM]</span>
__One of the frustrations of meetingsat …also clearly exposed.__

=shuttles neg= 
==1nc solvency== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tipping point of debris now – spills over </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carreau 12/1/11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report,http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Efforts over the past… another country’s spacecraft. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff pushes it over the tipping point</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jaggard 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Victoria Jaggard, National Geographic News Writer, 3-28-2010, “Tiny Solar Sail Pitched to Clean Up Space Junk,” National Geographic, http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2010/03/28/tiny_solar_sail_pitched_to_cle/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Collisions</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> with even a small speck </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">…surrounded by junk</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That means the ISS is screwed – debris knocks it down </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Leary 90** (Warren E. , April 25, The New York Times, “Peril Seen from Space Debris”, lexis, js)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Congressional agency has warned … attention to how best to deal with the future hazards posed by space debris.''</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debris means we can’t get off the rock – expert consensus </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Taylor Dinerman: Part-time consultant of US Dept. of Defense, November 29, 2004, Space debris: not just an American problem?, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/279/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">All too often, people claim that … whether it wants to leave or not.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And launches are impossible </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">William 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Lynda Williams, M.S. in Physics and a physics faculty member at Santa Rose Junior College, Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”, Spring 2010, Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice, 22.1, Spring)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the space race began 50 years ago with the … without risk of destruction.</span>
==1nc hegemony adv.== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winning the space race does nothing to exercise US leadership— empirics prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Lester and Robinson,10** (Daniel F. and Michael, Department of Astronomy C1400, University of Texas, University of Hartford, Visions of Exploration, Space Policy “The Death of the Constellation Program”, http://timetoeatthedogs.com/2010/02/02/the-death-of-the-constellation-program/) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The United States did gain prestige from …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> China back on Earth?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But the aff eviscerates US leadership </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**CSIS, 6** (Center for Strategic and International Studies: International Space Exploration Update, “U.S. Leadership and Space Exploration,” 2006, http://www.highfrontier.org/Archive/hf/CSIS_US_Space_Leadership_Advance.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since NASA has already had …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> having any followers is not leadership, it is merely being alone.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space leadership makes maintaining hegemony impossible </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MacDonald, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Bruce W., assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and served on the National Security Council staff, “Steps to strategic security and stability in space: a view from the United States”, 10/19/09, http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2907.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It would be unwise for any country to seek space dominance…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> … not make space a new battleground.\</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dependence on Russia doesn’t kill heg and serves as credibility leverage</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oberg, 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (10/1/2008, James,<span style="background-color: white;">space analyst for NBC News, spent 22 years at the Johnson Space Center as a Mission Control operator and an orbital designer, author of "Red Star in Orbit" and "Star-Crossed Orbits.",</span> “Now, NASA and Russians need each other: U.S. holds the high cards in a space game that’s getting more complex”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/26975208/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/now-nasa-russians-need-each-other/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, even if the Russians did cut loose their section … NASA than NASA would be without them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Primacy is inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bandow 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Doug Bandow, Senior fellow at the Cato Institute, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11143, January 19, 2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. has no great power enemies… the total share of global military outlay hits 80 percent.</span>

==1nc iss adv.== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ISS fails</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Launius 08</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Roger D., “</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space stations for the United States: An idea whose time has come—and gone?,” Acta Astronautica, 4/17/08, sciencedirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">9. Reconsidering the rationale for the space … what then is its purpose?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Three guys in a space suit just won’t cut it for disease or colonization </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NY Times 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“A Space Station Out of Control,” Opinion and Editorial, 11/25/01, </span><span class="rubric" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Title:</span><span class="definition" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A space station out of control, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://go.galegroup.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/ps/i.do?&id=GALE%7CA81780253&v=2.1&u=lom_umichanna&it=r&p=STND&sw=w)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nobody doubts that the </span><span class="hithighlite" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">station</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> has… automated experiments that would be tended occasionally by visiting astronauts.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They tradeoff with colonization</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Launius 08 – </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">chief historian of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Roger D., “</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space stations for the United States: An idea whose time has come—and gone?,” Acta Astronautica, 4/17/08, sciencedirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That question arose in a truly… in 1989 but derailed in the early 1990s [52].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their impact evidence says space tourism is sufficient to solve – that’s the status quo and means the aff’s not key </span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ashworth, 08</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cheap access to space no longer as achievable… of competitors. One day, somebody will succeed. It’s only a matter of time.</span>

=satellite contracts neg= 
==1nc adv cp== 
**Text: The companies that own communications satellites bandwidth should give that bandwidth to the Department of Defense for military use.**
==1nc navy adv.== 
**They don’t solve their navy advantage – it’s not a lack of bandwidth it’s a lack of naval data processing infrastructure**
Grace V.**<span style="background-color: white;">Jean</span>**, Journalist,<span style="background-color: white;">‘**11** </span>“Drone Sensor Data Will Overload Networks, Navy Officials Warn”, National Defense Magazine, NDIA Business and Technology Magazine, August, [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/August/Pages/DroneSensorDataWillOverloadNetworks,NavyOfficialsWarn.aspx]]
The expected growth of unmanned systems at sea is …officials said at a recent naval IT conference in Vienna, Va.

**No common data links means increased bandwidth doesn’t solve**
Grace V.**<span style="background-color: white;">Jean</span>**, Journalist,<span style="background-color: white;">‘**11**</span>“Drone Sensor Data Will Overload Networks, Navy Officials Warn”, National Defense Magazine, NDIA Business and Technology Magazine, August,[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/August/Pages/DroneSensorDataWillOverloadNetworks,NavyOfficialsWarn.aspx]]
“There’s nothing common about …capability,” he said.

**No internal link into heg anyways and no impact**
**Goure 10** – Vice President of the Lexington Institute (Daniel, Ph.D., 7/2/10, “Can The Case Be Made For Naval Power?”http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/can-the-case-be-made-for-naval-power-?a=1&c=1171, RBatra)
This is no longer the case. <span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span> commerce or to place the shores and commerce of other states in jeopardy, seem relatively unimportant in today’s world.

**No Taiwan war**
**Watts, 11** – Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic & Budgetary Assessments (Barry, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA; COMMITTEE: SENATE U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION,” 5/11, lexis)
The most common scenarios for a … embodies Sun Tzu's dictum that the acme of strategy is to subdue the enemy without fighting.

**No Asian war**
**Bitzinger and Desker**<span style="text-decoration: none;">, Rajaratnam School of International Studies,</span> **8** (Richard A., sr. fellow @ the school of international studies @ Nanyang Technological University, and Barry, Dean of the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S_Rajaratnam_School_of_International_Studies|S Rajaratnam School of International Studies]]</span>, Survival, Volume 50, Issue 6, December, Informaworld)
Yet <span style="text-decoration: none;">despite all these potential ….</span> not inconceivable - <span style="text-decoration: none;">is unlikely</span>.
=critical ufo neg= 
==1nc earth pic== 
**Nate and I think that the United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration for UFOs and intelligent alien life beyond Eaarth’s mesosphere.**

**Renaming the planet “Eaarth” is critical to environmental awareness and prevents environmental destruction**
**Jowit, 10** (Juliette, The Observer’s Environmental Editor Huffington Post, “Veteran climate campaigner calls for renaming of planet Earth”, 4/23/10, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/apr/23/bill-mckibben-rename-earth-eaarth]])
Humans have changed the ….We need just the opposite - increased engagement."

**The terminal impact is extinction**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Harris, 1 </span>**</span>(Paul G., Lecturer at Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, 2001, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-2)
Environment, Equity, and U.S. Foreign Policy: Normative …<span style="text-decoration: none;"> threaten the healthy survival of the human species</span>.

=solar sails neg= 
==1nc coal da== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff means no more coal industry – this is also their claim that we’re conceding</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kammen 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley (Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th,[[http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf,bs|http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf]], Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, China has … public health situation. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Clean coal tech now solves their turns and turns warming </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cary 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Annette, Tri-City Herald, “ Battelle gets grant for clean coal technology,” August 27, 2011, http://www.thenewstribune.com/2011/08/27/1797949/battelle-gets-grant-for-clean.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">RICHLAND -- Battelle researchers have received …capture systems for coal-fired power plants. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Now the impacts – economic collapse, competitiveness, and railroads – also turns the case </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AAM 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Association of American Railroads, “Railroads and Coal: Looking back and Looking Ahead”, Statement of the Association of American Railroads to the Congressional Caucus on Coal, May, 25, 2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. coal production is…and already overcrowded highways.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic collapse causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Green and Schrage, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (Michael J., and Stephen P, “It's not just the economy,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great …of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Railroads solve food prices </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AAR 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – AAR (Association for American Railroads), 06/24/08, [[http://www.aar.org/Pressroom/News/2008/06/FOODCOST_RAIL_SAVINGS.aspx]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In his June 16, 2008 Des …for a train full of soybeans headed to the West Coast." </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kills 3 billion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Lester, President of Earth Policy Institute, MPA at Harvard, Former Advisor to the Secretary of Agriculture, 2005, “Outgrowing The Earth,” http://www.earth-policy.org/Books/Out/] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Many Americans see …it is the next meal that is the overriding concern.”</span>
==2nc coal da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turns warming </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) Clean coal is the only way to solve warming </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wampler 11(The Atlanta Journal Constitution Staff Writer, 6/11/08, “COAL POWER: Stress efficient carbon capture-and-storage,” The Atlanta Journal Constitution, p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The risk here is that…the carbon is sequestered. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b) Railroads solve emissions – that’s AAM – more evidence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Damico 08 –[ESTHER D'AMICO, 01/14/08, Chemical Week, lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some $ 148 billion will…on highway infrastructure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turns hegemony </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) Railroads are key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Korpanty 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Robert, Military Traffic Management Command Transportation Engineering Agency, Army Logistician, November-December, http: [[http://www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/NovDec99/MS455.htm|www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/NovDec99/MS455.htm]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tell any mechanized…Program works to preserve our strategic rail mobility.</span>
==1nc asteroid mining da== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan necessitates robust asteroid mining </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roy, their author, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc, “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails,” Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review, July 14, 2011, “Dyson Dots,” http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the discovery in … absolute good, and no doubt will yield serendipitous scientific discoveries. They always do.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This causes international economic ramifications – collapses the Chinese economy </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lamb 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (2/17/10, Robert, Discovery News, “The Ethics Of Planetary Exploration And Colonization,” http://news.discovery.com/space/the-ethics-of-planetary-exploration-and-colonization.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Can you put a price tag … change as Earth-bound resources become more and more scarce? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear WWIII</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plate 03</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Tom Plate, Professor of Communications and Public, UCLA, Straights Times, June 28, 2003)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But imagine a China … now seems to prefer.</span>
==2nc asteroid control impact== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mining necessitates asteroid control </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillow 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Clay Dillow, Popular Science, “Chinese Scientists Plan to Pull an Asteroid into Orbit Around Earth,” August 31, 2011, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-08/chinese-scientists-hatch-plan-pull-asteroid-orbit-around-earth, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We could do something…</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">them for minerals,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and then send them on their ways.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sagan and Ostro 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> — Carl Sagan, Professor and Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell University, winner of the Oersted Medal, two NASA Distinguished Public Service Medals, the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction, and the National Academy of Sciences Public Welfare Medal, holds a Ph.D. in Astronomy and Astrophysics from the University of Chicago, and Steven J. Ostro, Director of the Asteroid Radar Group at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, holds a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1994 (“Dangers of Asteroid Deflection,” Nature, Volume 368, Number 6471, April 7th, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Nature Online, p. 501)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This proposal is a double-…. that posed by the objects themselves.</span>

==2nc africa impact== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Asteroid mining floods the African market with minerals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Geere 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Duncan, Senior Staff Writer, Wired.co.uk, “Making space exploration pay with asteroid mining,” July 15, http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2010-07/15/asteroid-mining]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Asteroids that have…market price.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This crushes the South African economy – platinum is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MTSA 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Economy,” http://www.moneytransfersouthafrica.org/economy/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">South Africa’s economy…monopoly, they are not as influential in the country’s economy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">South African economy is high now – it’s key to regional stability </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Swiss Confederation 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Swiss Confederation, Federal Department of Economic Affairs FDEA, Swiss Economic Development Cooperation, “South Africa: Country Strategy 2009–2012,” July 2009, pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The reduction in…the two countries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deutsch 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Jeffery, Founder – Rabid Tiger Project, Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. 2, No. 7, 11-18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Rabid Tiger …., and some people love to go fishing.</span>
==1nc hegemony adv.== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Their attempt to colonize will fail </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) Space environment destroys the aff </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Grierson 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (May 2004. Bruce, social science writer. “My Rocket is Going to Get You to Leo!” Popular Science. [[http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-space/article/2004-05/my-rocket-going-get-you-leo|www.popsci.com/military-aviation-space/article/2004-05/my-rocket-going-get-you-leo]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The canonization, though, may be premature. Ever since…humans charge into space en masse, at least anytime soon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b) Propulsion warrant is backwards </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Long, et. al, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – project director at the British Interplanetary Society (May 24, PROJECT ICARUS STUDY GROUP, “Flying Closer to Another Star”, http://arxiv.org/abs/1005.3833) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although there are exotic concepts for…engines, in particular with a fusion based fuel. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">c) Tech obstacles and too long </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Friedman, their author, 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – is cofounder of The Planetary Society. In the 1970s he worked at JPL on deep space missions, including Mariner-Venus Mercury, Voyager and Magellan ( Louis June 2007, “ Making light work Theory evolves toward practice—high-speed travel in the frictionless medium of space.”</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://planetary.org/programs/projects/solar_sailing/pro_pilot_0607.pdf, Sawyer</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In all probability, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">there will be an…predict that</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> practical </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">interstellar flight is</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> at least </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2 centuries in the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. No space leadership internal link </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) Empirics </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lester and Robinson,</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Daniel F. and Michael, Department of Astronomy C1400, University of Texas, University of Hartford, Visions of Exploration, Space Policy “The Death of the Constellation Program”, http://timetoeatthedogs.com/2010/02/02/the-death-of-the-constellation-program/) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States did…back on Earth?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b) Lack of it </span>**won’t kill hegemony
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bandow 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Doug Bandow, Senior fellow at the Cato Institute, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11143, January 19, 2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. has no great power enemies…military outlay hits 80 percent.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">c) Status quo solves </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bolden, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Charles, NASA Administrator, “NASA Will Continue U.S. Space Leadership,” 11/30/11, Wall Street Journal, pg. A18, Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">America has been the…is stronger than ever.</span>
==1nc warming adv.== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Clean tech internal link first</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) Conclusion of their article says they can’t generate the energy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pollowitz, their author, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Greg Pollowitz, National Review Online, “Solar Sail Could Power the Entire Earth” http://www.nationalreview.com/planet-gore/248361/solar-sail-could-power-entire-earth-greg-pollowitz, 9/30/10, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of course, all of that power has…the technology to create the satellite already exists, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a more focused laser would be necessary,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> said Schulze-Makuch.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Now Dyson Dots</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) This is the greatest engineering challenge ever – they can’t solve </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roy, their author, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc, “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails,” Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review, July 14, 2011, “Dyson Dots,” http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Geoengineering, or planetary engineering…climate change is also great. The purpose of this syncretic concept, which we tagged with the moniker “Dyson Dots”, is twofold.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b) To solve, they have a 1% chance of hitting the “sweet spot”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roy, their author, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc, “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails,” Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review, July 14, 2011, “Dyson Dots,” http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although the Lagrangians are called “points”…</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">less than 1 percent of the region.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">c) No launch infrastructure </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roy, their author, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Co-authors of this work are Kenneth I. Roy, P.E. and David E. Fields, Ph.D. Bio: Robert G. Kennedy, P.E. is president of The Ultimax Group, Inc, “Mirrors & Smoke: Ameliorating Climate Change with Giant Solar Sails,” Summer 2001 issue of The Whole Earth Review, July 14, 2011, “Dyson Dots,” http://www.ultimax.com/whitepapers/DysonDots4Aosta2011-final.pdf, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">SEL1 is way up beyond…the cheaper alternative after all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. Solar sails are one part of the entire machine that won’t work for a decade </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Angel & Worden, their authors, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Roger-- a Regents Professor at the University of Arizona and is on the faculty of the UA astronomy department and the Optical Sciences College, and Research Professor of Astronomy at the University of Arizona and Director of NASA Ames Research Center, “Making Moon Sun-Shades from Moon Dust”, Summer 2006, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume18/angel.html, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the scale of the…parasol units to test station-keeping by solar sailing.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">4. No impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NIPCC 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a paper published in Systematics…biotic resilience to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."</span>
==1nc arctic adv.== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Solar sails only allow for Arctic monitoring – plus they fail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McInnes, their author, 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Colin R McInnes, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering, University of Glasgow “Near-Term Mission Applications For Low Performance Solar Sails,” Strathprints, Development Archive, Sawyer) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It can be shown that </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">solar sails may…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">of 10 g m-2, as detailed in Table 3.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This means either </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a) ICESAT solves – plus a litany of other status quo measures check </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McInnes, their author, 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Colin R McInnes, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering, University of Glasgow “Near-Term Mission Applications For Low Performance Solar Sails,” Strathprints, Development Archive, Sawyer) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To perform useful climate-related</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">…the subject of</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> a major new NASA satellite lidar mission </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(ICESAT).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">b) There will be nothing to allow for – no new Arctic payloads </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Boyle 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Sawyer)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Amid all this, the country’s … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">JPSS is in danger of losing its funding.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Satellites don’t solve arctic conflict and there’s no impact anyways </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Military Hub 11(Military News organization, “U.S. Navy Challenged by Climate Change,” http://www.militaryhub.com/article.cfm?id=314)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In 2007, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">as a result…previously unreachable zones.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. De-targeting and redlines check accidents while there’s zero risk of US Russia war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Graham 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas Graham, senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff 2002-2007, "Russia in Global Affairs” The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1129.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">An astute historian of Russia…for more constructive long-term relations with Russia.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">5. Missile defense makes this uniquely true – also proves the impact is empirically denied </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Staples, their author, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years…radar </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">for ballistic missile defence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">6. Debris makes the impact inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeffrey Lewis, postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider…plane and any warning systems moot. </span>
=space guard neg= 
==1nc adv cp== 
**Text: The United States federal government should develop Space Guard civil space situational awareness but not deploy Space Guard civil space situational awareness beyond the earth’s mesosphere. The United States military should disclose and share all Space Situational Awareness data with all nations. The United States should offer to give all Space Situational Awareness technology to all countries and invite international verification for all data and technology. The United States federal government should provide necessary funding for the United States Air Force to develop aerospace power capabilities as outlined in their McKinley evidence.**

==1nc smart power adv.== 
**Legitimacy doesn’t solve anything**
**Joffe 06** (Josef, Editor of the Germany weekly Die Zeit, New York Times, “The Perils of Soft Power”, May 14, L/N)
In recent years, a number of <span style="text-decoration: none;">American …</span> about inferiority feelings being compensated by hauteur and denigration.

**Legitimacy fails – geopolitics**
**London**<span style="text-decoration: none;">, professor emeritus of NYU,</span> **9** (Herbert, president of the Hudson Institute, 3/19, http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.2787/pub_detail.asp)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Does </span>President <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama actually …</span> and truth are interchangeable.

**Status quo solves cyber attacks**
**Prince, 10** (8/25/2010, Brian, Energy Week IT Security and Network Security News, “Defense Department Confirms Critical Cyber-attack”, [[http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Security/Defense-Department-Confirms-Critical-Cyber-Attack-551206/]])
In addition to details on the … the United States' national security and its economic security."

**No cyberwarfare – deterrence checks**
James Andrew **Lewis 10** – “The Cyber War Has Not Begun,” Center for Strategic and International Studies, March, csis.org/files/publication/100311_TheCyberWarHasNotBegun.pdf.
Expanded attention to <span style="text-decoration: none;">…</span> or spontaneous <span style="text-decoration: none;">engagement</span>.

**There’s no cyber threat anyway**
**Liebowitz 11** (Matt Liebowitz, staff writer, “Washington’s Cyberwar Rhetoric is Inflammatory, Analysts Say,” Security Daily News, April 29, 2011, [[http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/washingtons-cyberwar-rhetoric-is-inflammatory-analysts-say-0744/]], Sawyer)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Despite its bravado, … very weak and poorly designed,"</span> Beresford said.

==1nc aerospace power adv.== 
**No impact to bioweapons --- they’re too hard to deploy and countermeasures solve**
John **Mueller**, Professor of Political Science and International Relations at Ohio State, **06**, Overblown p. 20-22
Properly developed and deployed, … warfare the easier he seems to think the task is."

**They have *zero* evidence on the state of U.S. aero power – the SQ solves it**
**Daley and Autry, ’11** – Kyle and Greg, “Obama's space program to bring surprising results,” Daily News LA, [[http://www.dailynews.com/opinions/ci_18603776]].
President Barack <span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama's bold space policy …</span> where these startups are located.

**The U.S. is still *comparatively* ahead, even in the midst of continual decline**
**Carreau, ’11** – Mark, “Futron Study: U.S. Losing Ground In Space,” Aviation Week, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/08/18/07.xml&headline=Futron%20Study:%20U.S.%20Losing%20Ground%20In%20Space]].
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The U.S. remains </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">top ranked ….</span>// relative starting points from when Futron’s benchmarking process began in 2008.”

**Don’t buy their spin – U.S. satellite** **aeropower is PARTICULARLY high**
**Butterworth, 11-7**-11 – Bob, former senior advisor to leader of Space Command. “Obama Administration's 'Three Cs' Means a Failing Space Policy,” AOL Defense, http://defense.aol.com/2011/11/07/obama-administrations-three-cs-means-a-failing-space-policy/
And as for the third "c," <span style="text-decoration: none;">one can …. </span>that U.S. companies cannot compete.

**Their** **most recent ev about CBW detection is from ’99 – the SQ solves – tons of new tech solve the advances cited in their *only* evidence from the last 4 years**
**Milanovich,’11** – received his B.S. in physics from the United States Air Force Academy in 1967 and a Ph.D. in applied physics from the University of California at Davis in 1974. He is currently program manager for the Chemical/Biological Nonproliferation Program within the Nonproliferation, Arms Control, and International Security Directorate at the Laboratory. Fred, “Reducing the Threat of Biological Weapons,” [[https://www.llnl.gov/str/Milan.html]].
A key factor limiting the …<span style="text-decoration: none;"> maintaining the highest level of sensitivity</span>.

**Their *only* spillover claim is transparency boosting BWC compliance – they read ZERO ev the BWC is effective – it’s a joke**
**Alibek, ‘3** – former deputy head of Russia’s secret biological warfare program, Dr. Ken, cited in “Arms Control without Arms Control: The Failure of the Biological Weapons Convention Protocol and a New Paradigm for Fighting the Threat of Biological Weapons” by Guy B. Roberts, USAF Institute for National Security Studies, March, [[http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/OCP/OCP49.pdf]].
In my opinion—and I know … But even in this case we have not "discovered" everything.

**TURN – saving the BWC is bad – its downfall leads to far better solutions to bio-terror**
**Roberts, ‘3** – Guy, “Arms Control without Arms Control: The Failure of the Biological Weapons Convention Protocol and a New Paradigm for Fighting the Threat of Biological Weapons” by Guy B. Roberts, USAF Institute for National Security Studies, March, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/OCP/OCP49.pdf.
Thus, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the United States</span> strongly …//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> than any of the proposals contained in the</span>// now defunct //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">protocol</span>//.

**No chance of offense – alternatives solve signaling, cooperation and bioweapons**
**Roberts, ‘3** – Guy, “Arms Control without Arms Control: The Failure of the Biological Weapons Convention Protocol and a New Paradigm for Fighting the Threat of Biological Weapons” by Guy B. Roberts, USAF Institute for National Security Studies, March, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/OCP/OCP49.pdf.
Overall, with the encouragement of … BW—proliferators and terrorists alike.

**They also have zero ev on SQ USAF war-fighting capability – their most recent ev was written** **before 9/11 – Agile Combat Support solves**
**Reno, ’11** – LIEUTENANT GENERAL LOREN M. RENO DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF, LOGISTICS, INSTALLATIONS & MISSION SUPPORT, UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, “PRESENTATION TO THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE UNITED STATES SENATE SUBJECT: READINESS ISSUES,” May 18, [[http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/05%20May/Reno%2005-18-11.pdf]].
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The United States continues to …</span> given over 20 years of constant combat operations.

**New infrastructural investments preserve USAF war-fighting capability**
**Yonkers, ’11** – TERRY A., ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS, ENVIRONMENT AND LOGISTICS, “PRESENTATION TO THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES UNITED STATES SENATE. SUBJECT: FISCAL YEAR 2012 AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ENVIRONMENTAL AND BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROGRAMS,” 3-17, [[http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/03%20March/Yonkers%2003-17-11.pdf]].
In addition to the contributions and … capability for fighter and bomber operations at the base.
==1nc space weather adv.== 
**No internal link**
**Hapgood, ’11** – Mike, Head of the Space Environment Group at RAL Space (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory within the Science and Technology Facilities Council), Visiting professor @ Lancaster U, Led several major space weather studies for the ESA and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team (2006-2009). “SPACE WEATHER Its impact on Earth and implications for business,” Lloyd’s 360 Risk Insight, [[http://www.lloyds.com/%7E/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf|http://www.lloyds.com/~/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf]].
Looking to the future, emerging ….reduce the long-term impact.

**Many alternate causalities ---**

**a. Boom-bust cycles**
**Myers**, former journalist, editor and general manager of Rural Press Limited, 12/5/**08** [Paul, Going Hungry in the 21st Century, Sydney Morning Herald, 2008, http://www.smh.com.au/news/world/going-hungry-in-the-21st-century/2008/12/05/1228257318407.html
"For the next five years we …- or four-year - political cycles."

**b. Drought**
**Myers**, former journalist, editor and general manager of Rural Press Limited, 12/5/**08** [Paul, Going Hungry in the 21st Century, Sydney Morning Herald, 2008, http://www.smh.com.au/news/world/going-hungry-in-the-21st-century/2008/12/05/1228257318407.html
As a significant global grain …. export market only by buying a majority share in a Californian rice mill.

**c. Urbanization and climate change**
**Myers,** former journalist, editor and general manager of Rural Press Limited, 12/5**/08** [Paul, Going Hungry in the 21st Century, Sydney Morning Herald, 2008, http://www.smh.com.au/news/world/going-hungry-in-the-21st-century/2008/12/05/1228257318407.html
Across the globe millions of … irrigation and drinking water in entire communities." This already is reality in many parts of Asia.

**The status quo solves data sharing on space weather and will only improve**
**Hapgood, ’11** – Mike, Head of the Space Environment Group at RAL Space (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory within the Science and Technology Facilities Council), Visiting professor @ Lancaster U, Led several major space weather studies for the ESA and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team (2006-2009). “SPACE WEATHER Its impact on Earth and implications for business,” Lloyd’s 360 Risk Insight, [[http://www.lloyds.com/%7E/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf|http://www.lloyds.com/~/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf]].
Basic scientific information on …. services that ensure good awareness of conditions in space, including space weather (see Box 6).

**At worst, the risk of their impact is 5% – robustness checks**
**Hapgood, ’11** – Mike, Head of the Space Environment Group at RAL Space (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory within the Science and Technology Facilities Council), Visiting professor @ Lancaster U, Led several major space weather studies for the ESA and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team (2006-2009). “SPACE WEATHER Its impact on Earth and implications for business,” Lloyd’s 360 Risk Insight, [[http://www.lloyds.com/%7E/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf|http://www.lloyds.com/~/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf]].
As we have shown in the previous section, … extreme solar radiation storm.

**Adaptation checks it**
**Hapgood, ’11** – Mike, Head of the Space Environment Group at RAL Space (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory within the Science and Technology Facilities Council), Visiting professor @ Lancaster U, Led several major space weather studies for the ESA and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team (2006-2009). “SPACE WEATHER Its impact on Earth and implications for business,” Lloyd’s 360 Risk Insight, [[http://www.lloyds.com/%7E/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf|http://www.lloyds.com/~/media/Lloyds/Reports/360%20Space%20Weather/7311_Lloyds_360_Space%20Weather_03.pdf]].
As mentioned throughout … work needed to obtain the relevant space weather data alone will increase operational costs.

**Empirically denied – even big flares don’t have a lasting or broad impact**
**Derbyshire 11** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]
The sun goes through a regular … the Canadian province of Quebec, the U.S. space agency said.


=politics= 
==1nc defense cuts -- cps round robin== 
**The GOP will try to reverse the defense cuts sequester but Obama will rally Dems to save it**
**Herb 2/9/12** – Jeremy, “Republican lawmakers feel buyer’s remorse over vote to raise debt limit,” DEFCON Hill – The Hill’s Defense blog, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/budget-approriations/209593-gop-feels-buyers-remorse-over-vote-to-raise-debt-limit]].
<span class="Underline">The </span>GOP chairman has<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> authored </span><span class="Underline">a </span>bill...with a $500 billion cloud hanging over their heads for a year, the amount the defense budget would be cut under sequestration in 2013.

**Cost of the plan means it kills capital**
**Boyle,** **11** (5/23/11, Rebecca, Popular Science, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap,” http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Sawyer)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Amid all this, </span>__the country’s__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> future weather ...danger of losing its funding.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Defense cuts are key to hegemony and prevent endless warfare – guarantees nuclear counterbalancing and escalation**</span>
**Friedman, 11-2**-11 – Benjamin, Research fellow in defense and homeland security studies at the Cato Institute, “How Cutting Pentagon Spending Will Fix U.S. Defense Strategy,” Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136637/benjamin-friedman/how-cutting-pentagon-spending-will-fix-us-defense-strategy?page=show.
Washington's defense hawks are ...military capability is that policymakers will try to do more with less, overburdening the force and endangering missions. But __given the cost of the status quo, that is a risk worth taking__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Heg solves __nuclear__ war – effective leadership diffuses them**
**Kagan, 7** (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Policy Review, August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The jostling for status and influence among these </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">... would possess nuclear weapons. </span>**That could make wars between them__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> less likely, or it could simply make them more </span>**__catastrophic__****.**
==1nc bahraini arms sales -- st marks== 

**Uniqueness---Bahraini arms sales will pass---the blocking resolution will fail**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ 10/12</span> Adam Entous "Senators Want Proposed Arms Sale to Bahrain Postponed" Oct 12 online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204774604576627470496026438.html
A group of U.S. senators ….resolutions to pass.

**Obama has to fight off opposition---the impact is middle east war and Iranian influence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rogin 10/5</span><span class="Underline"> Josh Rogin "Congress gears up to fight arms sales to Bahrain" Oct 5 thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/05/congress_gears_up_to_fight_arms_sales_to_bahrain</span>
Congress and the NGO community are … sale from going through.

**WWIII**
The Earl of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stirling 11</span>, hereditary Governor & Lord Lieutenant of Canada, Lord High Admiral of Nova Scotia, & B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, “General Middle East War Nears - Syrian events more dangerous than even nuclear nightmare in Japan”, http://europebusines.blogspot.com/2011/03/general-middle-east-war-nears-syrian.html
<span class="Underline">Any </span>Third Lebanon War<span class="Underline">/…anything but the Biblical Armageddon.</span>
==1nc epa -- new trier== 
**EPA stripping __isn’t passing now__**
**Graves, 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON -- America's </span>__environmental protections are under__ __...__ vetoes of the measures.

**__Fiat__ means that EPA __stripping legislation__ is attached to the plan**
**Graves, 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Lucia, Huffington Post, “War On The EPA: Republican Bills Would Erase Decades Of Protection”, 10/9, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/10/09/epa-republican-war-defund_n_1000664.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Still, once </span>__anti-EPA legislation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is Republicans take back the Senate in 2012.</span>

**Impact is warming**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Parenti, 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Christian </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Parenti</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> writer for the Nation, NPR, “The Nation: The Case for EPA Action]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On April 1 the Environmental Protection Agency established rules restricting greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks, starting in 2012. This is the first of what could become a sweeping series of regulations ... to act boldly would be a disaster. </span>The EPA is our<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">last</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, best </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">hope</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Warming is an existential threat**
**Mazo, 10** – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA (Jeffrey, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The best estimates for global warming ... profound social, cultural and political </span><span class="Underline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">rently, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the highest spatial …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> using its own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> The most important lesson from the …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> for future disease prediction.</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ndently, satellites are key to preventing animal-driven pandemics</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">UPI 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Study: Satellites can predict disease risk,” 2-15, http://www.upi.com/Science_News/2011/02/15/Study-Satellites-can-predict-disease-risk/UPI-97211297791134/#ixzz1VEB9wqwV)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Satellites can give warnings ahead of outbreaks</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of … co-author Thomas Cova, Utah associate professor of ge</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nissani, 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Moti, writer who has examined the reception new scientific discoveries have received in history**,** 1992, “Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics, 1945-1991”, http://www.is.wayne.edu/mnissani/PAGEPUB/CH2.html)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Some 15 percent of the bomb's energy is taken up by ionizing radiation. From the psychological point of view, and from the point of view of humankind's long-term future, radiation is perhaps…months or years to come down to earth, during which time it can be carried to all corners of the globe.</span>