[[toc]]
I'll post my neg strats and 1AC's but if you want anything else email me (repeatedly) @ [[mailto:rgalerstein@gmail.com|rgalerstein@gmail.com]] for neg cites and [[mailto:hayley.love.hopkins@gmail.com|hayley.love.hopkins@gmail.com]] for aff cites.
=Aff= 
==EOS Aff== 
===1AC's=== 
====Wake Forest==== 

**Contention 1 is Environmental Leadership**

**Warming is anthropogenic and occurring rapidly**
**Braganza 6/14**/11 (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515,)

In public discussions of climate change, the full range and weight of evidence underpinning the current science can be difficult to find. A good example of this is the role of observations of the climate system over the past one hundred years or more. In the current public discourse, the focus has been mostly on changes in global mean temperature. It would be easy to form the opinion that everything we know about climate change is based upon the observed rise in global temperatures and observed increase in carbon dioxide emissions since the industrial revolution. In other words, one could have the mistaken impression that the entirety of climate science is based upon a single correlation study. In reality, the correlation between global mean temperature and carbon dioxide over the 20th century forms an important, but very small part of the evidence for a human role in climate change. Our assessment of the future risk from the continued build up of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is even less informed by 20th century changes in global mean temperature. For example, our understanding of the greenhouse effect – the link between greenhouse gas concentrations and global surface air temperature – is based primarily on our fundamental understanding of mathematics, physics, astronomy and chemistry. Much of this science is textbook material that is at least a century old and does not rely on the recent climate record. For example, it is a scientific fact that Venus, the planet most similar to Earth in our solar system, experiences surface temperatures of nearly 500 degrees Celsius due to its atmosphere being heavily laden with greenhouse gases. Back on Earth, that fundamental understanding of the physics of radiation, combined with our understanding of climate change from the geological record, clearly demonstrates that increasing greenhouse gas concentrations will inevitably drive global warming. The observations we have taken since the start of 20th century have confirmed our fundamental understanding of the climate system. While the climate system is very complex, observations have shown that our formulation of the physics of the atmosphere and oceans is largely correct, and ever improving. Most importantly, the observations have confirmed that human activities, in particular a 40% increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations since the late 19th century, have had a discernible and significant impact on the climate system already. In the field known as detection and attribution of climate change, scientists use indicators known as of climate change. These fingerprints show the entire climate system has changed in ways that are consistent with increasing greenhouse gases and an enhanced greenhouse effect. They also show that recent, long term changes are inconsistent with a range of natural causes. A warming world is obviously the most profound piece of evidence. Here in Australia, the decade ending in 2010 has easily been the warmest since record keeping began, and continues a trend of each decade being warmer than the previous, that extends back 70 years. Globally, significant warming and other changes have been observed across a range of different indicators and through a number of different recording instruments, and a consistent picture has now emerged. Scientists have observed increases in continental temperatures and increases in the temperature of the lower atmosphere. In the oceans, we have seen increases in sea-surface temperatures as well as increases in deep-ocean heat content. That increased heat has expanded the volume of the oceans and has been recorded as a rise in sea-level. Scientists have also observed decreases in sea-ice, a general retreat of glaciers and decreases in snow cover. Changes in atmospheric pressure and rainfall have also occurred in patterns that we would expect due to increased greenhouse gases. There is also emerging evidence that some, though not all, types of extreme weather have become more frequent around the planet. These changes are again consistent with our expectations for increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide. Patterns of temperature change that are uniquely associated with the enhanced greenhouse effect, and which have been observed in the real world include: greater warming in polar regions than tropical regions greater warming over the continents than the oceans greater warming of night time temperatures than daytime temperatures greater warming in winter compared with summer a pattern of cooling in the high atmosphere (stratosphere) with simultaneous warming in the lower atmosphere (troposphere). By way of brief explanation, if the warming over the 20th century were due to some deep ocean process, we would not expect to see continents warming more rapidly than the oceans, or the oceans warming from the top down. For increases in solar radiation, we would expect to see warming of the stratosphere rather than the observed cooling trend. Similarly, greater global warming at night and during winter is more typical of increased greenhouse gases, rather than an increase in solar radiation. There is a range of other observations that show the enhanced greenhouse effect is real. The additional carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has been identified through its isotopic signature as being fossil fuel in origin. The increased carbon dioxide absorbed by the oceans is being recorded as a measured decrease in ocean alkalinity. Satellite measurements of outgoing long-wave radiation from the planet reveal increased absorption of energy in the spectral bands corresponding to carbon dioxide, exactly as expected from fundamental physics. It is important to remember that the enhanced greenhouse effect is not the only factor acting on the climate system. In the short term, the influence of greenhouse gases can be obscured by other competing forces. These include other anthropogenic factors such as increased industrial aerosols and ozone depletion, as well as natural changes in solar radiation and volcanic aerosols, and the cycle of El Niño and La Niña events. By choosing a range of indicators, by averaging over decades rather than years, and by looking at the pattern of change through the entire climate system, scientists are able to clearly discern the fingerprint of human-induced change. The climate of Earth is now a closely monitored thing; from instruments in space, in the deep ocean, in the atmosphere and across the surface of both land and sea. It’s now practically certain that increasing greenhouse gases have already warmed the climate system. That continued rapid increases in greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable.

**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**
**Deibel ‘7** (Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of global warming to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. Scientists worldwide have been observing the gathering of this threat for three decades now, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed not one of more than 900 articles on climate change published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 doubted that anthropogenic warming is occurring. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports shows: an international panel predicts “brutal droughts, floods and violent storms across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; the only debate is how much and how serous the effects will be. As the newspaper stories quoted above show, we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in more violent storms, spread of disease, mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and threatened inundation of low-lying countries like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “humankind’s continuing enhancement of the natural greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life support system. At worst, says physics professor Marty Hoffert of New York University, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then everything will collapse.” During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet. Global warming is the post-Cold War era’s equivalent of nuclear winter at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run it puts dangers form terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.

**We’re reaching the tipping point now – we must adapt before it’s too late**
**Romm '11** – Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress (Joe, 1/20/11, "Must-read Hansen and Sato paper: We are at a climate tipping point that, once crossed, enables multi-meter sea level rise this century," http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/20/207376/hansen-sato-climate-tipping-point-multi-meter-sea-level-rise/#)

Right now, we’re headed towards an ice-free planet. That takes us through the Eemian interglacial period of about 130,000 years ago when sea levels were 15 to 20 feet higher, when temperatures had been thought to be about 1°C warmer than today. Then we go back to the “early Pliocene, when sea level was about 25 m [82 feet] higher than today,” as NASA’s James Hansen and Makiko Sato explain in a new draft paper, “Paleoclimate Implications for Human-Made Climate Change.” The question is how much warmer was it in the Eemian and early Pliocene than today — and how fast can the great ice sheets disintegrate? We already know we’re at CO2 levels that risk catastrophe if they are sustained or exceeded for any extended period of time (see Science: CO2 levels haven’t been this high for 15 million years, when it was 5° to 10°F warmer and seas were 75 to 120 feet higher). Hansen and Sato go further, saying we’re actually at or very near the highest temperatures of the current Holocene interglacial — the last 12,000 years of relatively stable climate that has made modern civilization possible. Holocene They argue that the Eemian was warmer than the Holocene maximum by “at most by about 1°C, but probably by only several tenths of a degree Celsius.” Their make the remarkable finding, that sea level rise will be highly nonlinear this century on our current business-as-usual [BAU] emissions that: BAU scenarios result in global warming of the order of 3-6°C. It is this scenario for which we assert that multi-meter sea level rise on the century time scale are not only possible, but almost dead certain. While this conclusion takes them well outside of every other recent prediction of sea level rise (SLR), Hansen deserves to be listened to because he has been right longer than almost anyone else in the field (see “Right for three decades: 1981 Hansen study finds warming trend that could raise sea levels“). Also, at least one recent study that attempts to integrate a linear historically-based analysis with a rapid response term finds we are headed towards SLR of “as much as 1.9 metres (6ft 3in) by 2100″ if we stay on BAU (see “Sea levels may rise 3 times faster than IPCC estimated, could hit 6 feet by 2100“). Hansen and Sato make their case for a strong nonlinear SLR based on a “phase change feedback mechanism,” that, as we’ll see, appears consistent with the recent scientific literature and observations1: There is a simple explanation for why the Eemian and Holsteinian were only marginally warmer than the Holocene and yet had (both) poles several degrees Celsius warmer. Earth at peak Holocene temperature is poised such that additional warming instigates large amplifying high-latitude feedbacks. Mechanisms on the verge of being instigated include loss of Arctic sea ice, shrinkage of the Greenland ice sheet, loss of Antarctic ice shelves, and shrinkage of the Antarctic ice sheets. These are not runaway feedbacks, but together they strongly amplify the impacts in polar regions of a positive (warming) climate forcing. Augmentation of peak Holocene temperature by even 1°C would be sufficient to trigger powerful amplifying polar feedbacks, leading to a planet at least as warm as in the Eemian and Holsteinian periods, making ice sheet disintegration and large sea level rise inevitable. Empirical evidence supporting these assertions abounds. Global temperature increased 0.5°C in the past three decades (Hansen et al., 2010) to a level comparable to the prior Holocene maximum, or a few tenths of a degree higher. Satellite observations reveal rapid reduction of Arctic sea ice (Stroeve et al., 2007) and surface melt on a large growing portion of the Greenland ice sheet (Steffen et al., 2004; Tedesco et al., 2011). Arctic response to human-made climate forcing is more apparent than Antarctic change, because the response time is quicker due to the large proportion of land area and Greenland’s temperature, which allows a large expansion of the area with summer melting. However, we must expect ice sheet mass balance changes will occur simultaneously in both hemispheres. Why? Because ice sheets in both hemispheres were in near-equilibrium with Holocene temperatures. That is probably why both Greenland and Antarctica began to shed ice in the past decade or so, because global temperature is just rising above the Holocene level. Ice sheet disintegration in Antarctica depends on melting the underside of ice shelves as the ocean warms, a process well underway at the Pine Island glacier (Scott et al., 2009). The glacier’s grounding line has retreated inland by tens of kilometers (Jenkins et al., 2010) and thinning of the ice sheet has spread inland hundreds of kilometers (Wingham et al., 2009). The article has a longer discussion of the ‘albedo flip’ underlying their conclusion: Summer melting on lower reaches of the ice sheets and on ice shelves introduces the “albedo flip” mechanism (Hansen et al., 2007). This phase change of water causes a powerful local feedback, which, together with moderate global warming, can substantially increase the length of the melt season. Such increased summer melting has an immediate local temperature effect, and it also will affect sea level, on a time scale that is being debated, as discussed below. We suggest that the warmest interglacials in the past 450,000 years were warm enough to bring the “albedo flip” phenomenon into play, while interglacials in the earlier part of the 800,000 year ice core record were too cool for surface melt on the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets and ice shelves to be important. Increased surface melting, loss of ice shelves, and reduction of summer and autumn sea ice around the Antarctic and Greenland continents during the warmest interglacials would have a year-round effect on temperature, because the increased area of open water has its largest impact on surface air temperature in the cool seasons. Further, we suggest that the stability of sea level during the Holocene is a consequence of the fact that global temperature remained just below the level required to initiate the “albedo flip” mechanism on Greenland and West Antarctica. One implication of this interpretation is that the world today is on the verge of a level of global warming for which the equilibrium surface air temperature response on the ice sheets will exceed the global mean temperature increase by much more than a factor of two. Coincidentally, a new article in Nature Geoscience, “Radiative forcing and albedo feedback from the Northern Hemisphere cryosphere between 1979 and 2008,” appears to lend support to this thesis. After “synthesizing a variety of remote sensing and field measurements,” the authors find “the albedo feedback from the Northern Hemisphere cryosphere” is “substantially larger than comparable estimates obtained from 18 climate models.” The news release notes: A new analysis of the Northern Hemisphere’s “albedo feedback” over a 30-year period concludes that the region’s loss of reflectivity due to snow and sea ice decline is more than double what state-of-the-art climate models estimate. The findings are important, researchers say, because they suggest that Arctic warming amplified by the loss of reflectivity could be even more significant than previously thought. Also, the Hansen/Sato thesis seems consistent with a 2008 study in Geophysical Research Letters by leading tundra experts, “Accelerated Arctic land warming and permafrost degradation during rapid sea ice loss.” The lead author is David Lawrence of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), who I have interviewed a number of times . The study’s ominous conclusion: We find that simulated western Arctic land warming trends during rapid sea ice loss are 3.5 times greater than secular 21st century climate-change trends. The accelerated warming signal penetrates up to 1500 km inland”¦. See also “What exactly is polar amplification and why does it matter?” Back to Hansen/Sato. They have extended discussion of “linear versus non-linear ice sheet disintegration” and conclude: The asymmetry of glacial-interglacial climate cycles, with rapid warming and sea level rise in the warming phase and a slower descent into ice ages, suggests that amplifying feedbacks can make the “wet” ice sheet disintegration process relatively rapid (Hansen et al., 2007). But how rapid? Paleoclimate records include cases in which sea level rose several meters per century, even though known natural positive forcings are much smaller than the human-made forcing. This implies that ice sheet disintegration can be a highly nonlinear process. We suggest that a nonlinear process spurred by an increasing forcing and amplifying feedbacks is better characterized by the doubling time for the rate of mass disintegration, rather than a linear rate of mass change. If the doubling time is as short as a decade, multi-meter sea level rise could occur this century. Observations of mass loss from Greenland and Antarctica are too brief for significant conclusions, but they are not inconsistent with a doubling time of a decade or less. The picture will become clearer as the measurement record lengthens. What constraints or negative feedbacks might limit nonlinear growth of ice sheet mass loss? An ice sheet sitting primarily on land above sea level, such as most of Greenland, may be limited by the speed at which it can deliver ice to the ocean via outlet glaciers. But much of the West Antarctic ice sheet, resting on bedrock below sea level, is not so constrained. And so they end their paper with this prediction and warning: IPCC BAU (business-as-usual) scenarios assume that greenhouse gas emissions will continue to increase, with the nations of the world burning most of the fossil fuels including unconventional fossil fuels such as tar sands. An alternative extreme, one that places a substantial rising price on carbon emissions, would have CO2 emissions beginning to decrease within less than a decade, as the world moves on energy systems beyond fossil fuels, leaving most of the remaining coal and unconventional fossil fuels in the ground. In this extreme scenario, let’s call it fossil fuel phase-out (FFPO), CO2 would rise above 400 ppm but begin a long decline by mid-century (Hansen et al., 2008). The European Union 2°C scenario, call it EU2C, falls in between these two extremes. BAU scenarios result in global warming of the order of 3-6°C. It is this scenario for which we assert that multi-meter sea level rise on the century time scale are not only possible, but almost dead certain. Such a huge rapidly increasing climate forcing dwarfs anything in the peleoclimate record. Antarctic ice shelves would disappear and the lower reaches of the Antarctic ice sheets would experience summer melt comparable to that on Greenland today. The other extreme scenario, FFPO, does not eliminate the possibility of multi-meter sea level rise, but it leaves the time scale for ice sheet disintegration very uncertain, possibly very long. If the time scale is several centuries, then it may be possible to avoid large sea level rise by decreasing emissions fast enough to cause atmospheric greenhouse gases to decline in amount. What about the intermediate scenario, EU2C? We have presented evidence in this paper that prior interglacial periods were less than 1°C warmer than the Holocene maximum. If we are correct in that conclusion, the EU2C scenario implies a sea level rise of many meters. It is difficult to predict a time scale for the sea level rise, but it would be dangerous and foolish to take such a global warming scenario as a goal. If Hansen and Sato are right, we will know within a decade or two. Unfortunately, continuing to do nothing while we wait to find out all but ensures we cross the tipping point and entire the realm of worst-case scenarios. Further delay is beyond immoral.

**Climate satellites aren’t sufficient now – they’re necessary to measure climate variables**
**Lewis et al ’10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Until this year, America’s civil space policies—and the budgets that derive from it—were shaped to a considerable degree by the political imperatives of the past and by the romantic fiction of spaceflight. We believe there is a new imperative—climate change—that should take precedence in our national plans for space and that the goal for space spending in the next decade should be to create a robust and adequate Earth observation architecture. There is unequivocal evidence, despite careless mistakes and noisy protests, that Earth’s climate is warming. While the effects and implications of this are subject to speculation, there should be no doubt that the world faces a major challenge. There are important shortfalls in data and analysis needed to manage this challenge. Inadequate data mean that we cannot determine the scope or nature of change in some key areas, such as the melting of Antarctic sea ice. Long-term changes in daily temperature are not adequately understood, in part because of limited observations of atmospheric changes. Our understanding of how some anthropogenic (man-made) influences affect climate change is still incomplete. 1 These shortfalls must be remedied, if only to overcome skepticism and doubt. Climate change now occupies a central place on the global political agenda, and the United States should adjust its space policies to reflect this. Assessing and managing climate change will require taking what has largely been a scientific enterprise and “operationalizing” it. Operationalization means creating processes to provide the data and analysis that governments will need if they are to implement policies and regulations to soften the effects of climate change. Operationalization requires the right kind of data and adequate tools for collecting, analyzing, and disseminating that data in ways that inform decisionmaking at many levels of society. Satellites play a central role in assessing climate change because they can provide a consistent global view, important data, and an understanding of change in important but remote areas. Yet there are relatively few climate satellites—a total of 19, many of which are well past their expected service life. Accidents or failures would expose the fragility of the Earth observation system. 2 We lack the required sensors and instruments for the kinds of measurement that would make predictions more accurate and solutions more acceptable. Weather satellites, which take low-resolution pictures of clouds, forests, and ice caps, are not adequate to the task. NASA builds impressive Earth observation satellites for climate change, but these have been experimental rather than ongoing programs. Climate change poses a dilemma for space policy. The programs needed to manage climate change have been woefully underfunded for decades. The normal practice is to call uncritically for more money for civil space and its three components—planetary exploration, Earth observation, and manned spaceflight. In fact, civil space has been lavishly funded. Since 1989, NASA has received $385 billion, with $189 billion in the last decade. 3 This is more than the space budgets of most other nations combined. The problem is not a lack of money but how it has been spent. The bulk of this money went to NASA’s manned space program. This is a legacy of the Cold War. Manned spaceflight showed that market democracies could surpass scientific socialism. The point has been made. Spaceflight provides prestige, but a long series of miscalculations have left the United States with a fragile and fabulously expensive space transportation system. It will take years to recover, and some goals, such as a voyage to Mars, are simply unachievable absent major breakthroughs in physics and other sciences. If we accept that climate change poses serious risks to regional stability, national security, and economic health, the United States needs to reconsider its funding priorities for civil space. Earth observation is crucial for national security and the economy; manned spaceflight programs provide prestige. The United States must make climate-monitoring satellites its priority for funding if it is serious about managing climate change. In practical terms, this means a reduction in the spending on human spaceflight in order to fund a sustained program of satellite-building to create a robust climate monitoring space system.This is, of course, not an all-or-nothing issue. The United States can fund a range of space programs, manned and unmanned, for exploration and for Earth sciences. It is a question of priorities. Our recommendation is that the funding given to Earth observation should increase, as it is more important now for the national interest to monitor and manage climate change, even if that means a slower pace for other programs, such as manned spaceflight, until a robust Earth observation system has been put in orbit. Having the right data is only part of the challenge. The usefulness of that data depends on the strength of climate models and computing capabilities and our ability to make this information available to decisionmakers and user communities in a useful form. In the United States, these functions could be provided by a strengthened and reorganized interagency climate information structure bolstered by the creation of a National Climate Service, which could aggregate and analyze climate data in ways tailored to support management, policymaking, and the information needs of a broad-based user community.There is also an opportunity for the United States to lead an international effort that takes the many existing collaboration structures—such as the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS)—and operationalizes them. The Global Framework for Climate Services being advocated by the World Meteorological Organization could provide the platform to make climate data more accessible to policymakers. The United States is the nation that is most active in space and the nation with the greatest need to demonstrate responsible leadership. A willingness to cooperate and share will help build America’s global influence. Operationalizing science to manage climate change, building the capacity to acquire the needed information and share it with a wide range of users, and bolstering these capabilities at the international level as a part of a productive engagement strategy in what has so far been a contentious road to international agreement should all be goals for the United States both to address climate change, contribute to solving a global problem, and rebuild U.S. leadership.

**These climate observations are the only means to properly measure and manage warming – a US federal policy is key**
**Lewis et al ’10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions— the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions.15 Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite.16 Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million,17 which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY.18 The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors.19 The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities.20 Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16.21 Only a coordinated federal policy and investment-, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastrophe are likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.

**Obama's over-focused on emissions cuts – leadership on adaptation specifically solves environmental leadership**
**Sundt '10** – Communications Director for Climate Change at the World Wildlife Fund, staff associate at the U.S. Climate Change. Science Program Office, which is sponsored by 13 federal agencies (Nick, 10/11/10, "In Rolling Stone Interview, Obama Says "We're Going to Have to Mobilize" on Climate Change,” http://www.wwfblogs.org/climate/content/rolling-stone-interview-obama-climate-change-oct2010, RG)

"[C]limate change has the potential to have devastating effects on people around the globe," President Obama says in the latest (15 October 2010) issue of Rolling Stone, "and we've got to do something about it. In order to do something about it, we're going to have to mobilize domestically, and we're going to have to mobilize internationally." The president emphasizes the importance of curbing greenhouse gas emissions, though says nothing about preparing for the impacts of climate change -- even though a group of experts in late September called for increased Presidential engagement on preparedness issues. In Obama in Command: The Rolling Stone Interview, Obama voiced disappointment that he has not accomplished more on climate change, but cited progress and said he was determined to move forward: "During the past two years, we've not made as much progress as I wanted to make when I was sworn into office. It is very hard to make progress on these issues in the midst of a huge economic crisis, because the natural inclination around the world is to say, `You know what? That may be a huge problem, but right now what's a really big problem is 10 percent unemployment,' or `What's a really big problem is that our businesses can't get loans.' That diverted attention from what I consider to be an urgent priority. The House of Representatives made an attempt to deal with the issue in a serious way. It wasn't perfect, but it was serious. We could not get 60 votes for a comparable approach in the Senate. One of my top priorities next year is to have an energy policy that begins to address all facets of our overreliance on fossil fuels. We may end up having to do it in chunks, as opposed to some sort of comprehensive omnibus legislation. But we're going to stay on this because it is good for our economy, it's good for our national security, and, ultimately, it's good for our environment. Understand, though, that even in the absence of legislation, we took steps over the past two years that have made a significant difference. I will give you one example, and this is an example where sometimes I think the progressive community just pockets whatever we do, takes it for granted, and then asks, "Well, why didn't you get this done?" We instituted the first increase in fuel-efficiency standards in this country in 30 years. It used to be that California would have some very rigorous rule, and then other states would have much weaker ones. Now we've got one rule. Not only that, it used to be that trucks weren't covered, and there were all kinds of loopholes — that's how SUVs were out there getting eight miles a gallon. Now everybody's regulated — not only cars, but trucks. We did this with the agreement of the auto industry, which had never agreed to it before, we did it with the auto workers, who had never agreed to it before. We are taking the equivalent of millions of cars off the road, when it comes to the amount of greenhouse gases that are produced. Is it enough? Absolutely not. The progress that we're making on renewable energy, the progress that we're making on retrofitting buildings and making sure that we are reducing electricity use — all those things, cumulatively, if we stay on it over the next several years, will allow us to meet the target that I set, which would be around a 17 percent reduction in our greenhouse gases. But we're going to have to do a lot more than that. ...When I ask [Energy Secretary Steven Chu]... how we are going to solve this problem internationally, what he'll tell you is that we can get about a third of this done through efficiencies and existing technologies, we can get an additional chunk through some sort of pricing in carbon, but ultimately we're going to need some technological breakthroughs. So the investments we're making in research and development around clean energy are also going to be important if we're going to be able to get all the way there. Am I satisfied with what we've gotten done? Absolutely not. When asked by Rolling Stone if he sees "a point at which you're going to throw the whole weight of the presidency behind this, like you did on health care or financial reform," President Obama replies: "Yes. Not only can I foresee it, but I am committed to making sure that we get an energy policy that makes sense for the country and that helps us grow at the same time as it deals with climate change in a serious way." He later adds: "Understandably, everybody has a great sense of urgency about these issues. But one of the things that I constantly want to counsel my friends is to keep the long view in mind...These things don't happen overnight. But we're moving in the right direction, and that's what people have to keep in mind." Climate Change Preparedness Missing from President's Remarks The President exclusively emphasized the need to curb greenhouse gas emissions (also known as climate change "mitigation"). Notably missing from the President's remarks was any mention of the need for climate change preparedness (often termed "adaptation") and steps the Administration is taking to address the impacts of climate change that already are being felt and that will become more disruptive in the future. Silence on that question was all the more conspicuous in light of recommendations submitted to the White House by the National Climate Adaptation Summit Committee on 13 September 2010. In a report [PDF] released publicly on 29 September 2010, the committee said "[t]he United States’ response to climate change must include adaptation as well as mitigation." Among the key issues and challenges listed by the committee was the need for Federal leadership -- starting at the top: "Increased Presidential engagement on climate adaptation issues would both elevate the importance of adaptation activities within the government and raise the profile of the adaptation challenge with the nation as a whole. Opportunities include being more vocal on the importance of this topic, the validity of the science, and the need to take reasonable actions." Earlier this year, on 30 April 2010, the Pew Center on Global Climate Change similarly highlighted the importance of leadership in mobilizing Americans and the government towards climate change preparedness. In its report, Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership [PDF], Pew listed five main components of such leadership, the first of which is the need for a "clear public commitment by a chief executive," adding that a "public commitment, perhaps in the form of a formal statement to explain the national strategy and program sends a clear signal that adaptation is important." The authors explained that "[o]nce a chief executive in government makes adaptation a clear priority, it increases attention and resources available to the issue and provides clear policy direction. In many cases, executive leadership is the only way to elevate adaptation as a government priority, but formal organization, funding, or legislative action may be necessary to maintain an adaptation program after the initial leadership push."

**Data collected via improved satellites is a prerequisite to a policy response**
**Lewis et al ’10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

On a national level, the United States is beginning a similar effort to better inform decisionmakers about climate change. U.S. climate change policy is based on three components: slowing the growth of emissions; strengthening science, technology, and institutions; and enhancing international cooperation. Climate change has been a priority for the Obama administration, and it now needs to be reinforced by organizational measures that, like the World Climate Service System, provide essential information to decisionmakers. Effective climate change policy requires the government to provide the user community with information on anticipated climate changes and the potential effect of any policies. Federal government, states, local communities, businesses, and individuals all require information to make decisions about how to respond to climate change. The U.S. ability to provide this information is complicated by the fact that no single agency has both the mandate and requisite budget for providing ongoing climate observation, prediction, and services. Thirteen U.S. federal agencies are involved in climate change. 14 Coordination of the various climate management components of these agencies is the responsibility of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), in partnership with the Office of Management and Budget. This ad hoc structure has grown up over time and is no longer adequate. Climate services are disparate and disconnected. Data collection is inadequate, and computational resources necessary for precise climate prediction are insufficient. A new organization to consolidate, analyze, and disseminate climate data would help overcome this problem. Fragmentation damages the effective use of the information that we currently collect.

**Substantial US green initiatives guarantee spillover**
Trevor **Houser**, visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics; Shashank **Mohan**, research analyst with the Rhodium Group; --**AND**-- Robert **Heilmayr**, research analyst at the World Resources Institute, **09**
[“A Green Global Recovery? Assessing US Economic Stimulus and the Prospects for International Coordination,” http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/houser0309.pdf]

The G-20 group of developed and developing countries has emerged as the lead forum for orchestrating an international response to the economic crisis. At their meeting last November, G-20 leaders pledged to work together to combat the global recession through coordinated fiscal stimulus. Washington is not alone in looking to meet long-term energy and environmental goals while bolstering short-term economic growth. Japan and South Korea have both trumpeted their stimulus plans as “Green New Deals,” China has earmarked much of its $586 billion in spending for energy and environmental projects, and the United Kingdom and Germany have followed suit.14 The G-20 will meet again in April to compare notes on the recovery effort and take stock of each country’s plan of attack. Leaders will be looking to coordinate their respective stimulus packages to ensure the greatest economic bang for the buck. Given that this same group of countries will be tackling climate change later in the year—either in a small grouping like the Major Economies Process, or through the UN-led negotiations in Copenhagen—they would be wise to assess the cumulative effect of these efforts on global carbon dioxide emissions and work together to ensure that various green stimulus efforts complement each other as well as longterm emissions reduction goals. Discussion of the energy and environmental components of national recovery efforts provides three benefits: 1. Investments by one country in an emerging low-carbon technology reduce the cost of that technology for everyone. Coordinating government-driven R&D and governmentfunded demonstration projects can maximize the energy and environmental benefits of every public dollar spent. 2. Efficiency investments that reduce energy demand in one country impact energy prices around the world and thus 14. Michael Casey, “UN welcomes Korea, Japan green stimulus plans,” Associated Press, January 22, 2009; Li Jing, “NDRC: 350b yuan to pour into environment industry,” China Daily, November 27, 2008, available at www. chinadaily.com.cn (accessed on February 2, 2009). the cost-benefit analysis used by national policymakers when evaluating domestic programs. 3. The cumulative effects of green recovery programs on national emissions will shape international climate negotiations and the type of commitments that are made as part of a multilateral climate agreement.

**Information capabilities are a necessary to revitalizes US climate leadership that leads to global cooperation**
**Lewis et al ’10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable effects on economic and national security. Managing these consequences and mitigating them when possible are new and difficult tasks for governments. Progress in mitigating and adapting to climate change will require the world’s countries to agree to coordinate their actions. Reaching such agreement will be no easy task. That said, climate change offers a unique opportunity for the United States to engage other nations in pursuing common interests and addressing future challenges. Not only is the United States well positioned to lead on this issue because of its significant space and scientific capacity, it also faces global expectations that it should shoulder the leadership burden for climate change. A commitment to building the space and information infrastructure needed to manage climate change could demonstrate the U.S. leadership, based on competence and advancing the global good, that the world respects and admires. Operationalization is the next step for dealing with climate change—to make the data and knowledge generation by satellites and science easier to use in policymaking. Operationalization requires a new approach. Climate change has largely been an issue of science. The existing vehicles for international cooperation and data sharing are aimed at the scientific community. Effective global management of climate requires a new approach with three integrated elements—space, networks, and collaboration. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation policies, and guide planning on how to adapt to changes in the environment. Achieving such a concerted effort will require coordination must occur on several different levels if it is to have a meaningful effect. The first—the collection and measurement of relevant data—depends largely on satellites. Without the proper data, it would be very difficult to develop and aggregate a global picture of climate change and its nature and pace. It would be difficult to measure the effects of mitigation efforts, determine when or whether policies are effective, or predict when and how climate effects will affect local communities. The second level is to expand the analysis and sharing of information. In some ways, we are only in the early stages of developing a global enterprise for assessing climate change. Much of the research and analysis conducted thus far has been focused on understanding the nature and pace of climate change, forecasting future changes in Earth’s natural systems based on changes in different variables, and substantiating theories about how human efforts to reduce the effects of climate change might actually have some effect. More work is needed in each area to improve our understanding and update it as the natural environment continues to change. Finally, data must move from the scientific community to the policy community—to governments and policymakers—if data are to guide change. While the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tailored analysis to meet policymakers’ needs in the hopes of reaching a global consensus for action, the challenge today is to extend and strengthen connections between the science and policy communities. A coordinated multinational effort to better inform the policy process can change this. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation, and guide planning on adapting to changes in the environment. To this end, our recommendations follow: The U.S. approach to climate change policy needs to inform decisionmakers and planners in both government and the private sector by providing understandable metrics and analyses of the effectiveness of, and compliance with, mitigation programs and adaption plans. The customers for this should include federal agencies, state and local governments, private sector users, and other nations. To better serve the national interest, the United States should increase its Earth observation capabilities—especially space-based sensors for carbon monitoring—to improve our ability to understand the carbon cycle and to inform any future international agreement. This means that until these capabilities are adequate for monitoring climate change, investment in Earth observation satellites should take precedence over other space programs. Increased spending on earth observation satellites specifically designed for climate change should be maintained until the current capability shortfall is eliminated.

**US climate leadership spurs international action – independently solves bio-diversity and soil erosion**
**Khosla 9** – President of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (Ashok, 1/29/09, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream,” http://www.iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?2595/new-President-for-the-United-States-We-have-a-dream)

A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose, commitment and energy to make its contribution once again towards a better world could well be the turning point that can reverse the current decline in the state of the global economy, the health of its life support systems and the morale of people everywhere. This extraordinary change in regime brings with it the promise of a deep change in attitudes and aspirations of Americans, a change that will lead, hopefully, to new directions in their nation’s policies and action. In particular, we can hope that from being a very reluctant partner in global discussions, especially on issues relating to environment and sustainable development, the United States will become an active leader in international efforts to address the Millennial threats now confronting civilization and even the survival of the human species. For the conservation of biodiversity, so essential to maintaining life on Earth, this promise of change has come not a moment too soon. It would be a mistake to put all of our hopes on the shoulder of one young man, however capable he might be. The environmental challenges the world is facing cannot be addressed by one country, let alone by one man. At the same time, an inspired US President guided by competent people, who does not shy away from exercising the true responsibilities and leadership his country is capable of, could do a lot to spur the international community into action. To paraphrase one of his illustrious predecessors, “the world asks for action and action now.” What was true in President Roosevelt’s America 77 years ago is even more appropriate today. From IUCN’s perspective, the first signals are encouraging. The US has seriously begun to discuss constructive engagement in climate change debates. With Copenhagen a mere 11 months away, this commitment is long overdue and certainly very welcome. Many governments still worry that if they set tough standards to control carbon emissions, their industry and agriculture will become uncompetitive, a fear that leads to a foot-dragging “you go first” attitude that is blocking progress. A positive intervention by the United States could provide the vital catalyst that moves the basis of the present negotiations beyond the narrowly defined national interests that lie at the heart of the current impasse. The logjam in international negotiations on climate change should not be difficult to break if the US were to lead the industrialized countries to agree that much of their wealth has been acquired at the expense of the environment (in this case greenhouse gases emitted over the past two hundred years) and that with the some of the benefits that this wealth has brought, comes the obligation to deal with the problems that have resulted as side-effects. With equitable entitlement to the common resources of the planet, an agreement that is fair and acceptable to all nations should be easy enough to achieve. Caps on emissions and sharing of energy efficient technologies are simply in the interest of everyone, rich or poor. And both rich and poor must now be ready to adopt less destructive technologies – based on renewables, efficiency and sustainability – both as a goal with intrinsic merit and also as an example to others. But climate is not the only critical global environmental issue that this new administration will have to deal with. Conservation of biodiversity, a crucial prerequisite for the wellbeing of all humanity, no less America, needs as much attention, and just as urgently. The United States’ self-interest in conserving living natural resources strongly converges with the global common good in every sphere: in the oceans, by arresting the precipitate decline of fish stocks and the alarming rise of acidification; on land, by regenerating the health of our soils, forests and rivers; and in the atmosphere by reducing the massive emission of pollutants from our wasteful industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.

**Current biodiversity loss risks extinction**
**Cayne and Hoekstra ‘7** – *Professor of Ecology @ University of Chicago AND **Professor of Biology at Harvard (Jerry & Hopi, 9/24/07, “The Greatest Dying,” http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying)**

**We are relentlessly taking over the planet, laying it to waste and eliminating most of our fellow species. Moreover, we're doing it much faster than the mass extinctions that came before. Every year, up to 30,000 species disappear due to human activity alone. At this rate, we could lose half of Earth's species in this century. And, unlike with previous extinctions, there's no hope that biodiversity will ever recover, since the cause of the decimation - us - is here to stay. To scientists, this is an unparalleled calamity, far more severe than global warming, which is, after all, only one of many threats to biodiversity. Yet global warming gets far more press. Why? One reason is that, while the increase in temperature is easy to document, the decrease of species is not. Biologists don't know, for example, exactly how many species exist on Earth. Estimates range widely, from three million to more than 50 million, and that doesn't count microbes, critical (albeit invisible) components of ecosystems. We're not certain about the rate of extinction, either; how could we be, since the vast majority of species have yet to be described? We're even less sure how the loss of some species will affect the ecosystems in which they're embedded, since the intricate connection between organisms means that the loss of a single species can ramify unpredictably. But we do know some things. Tropical rainforests are disappearing at a rate of 2 percent per year. Populations of most large fish are down to only 10 percent of what they were in 1950. Many primates and all the great apes - our closest relatives - are nearly gone from the wild. And we know that extinction and global warming act synergistically. Extinction exacerbates global warming: By burning rainforests, we're not only polluting the atmosphere with carbon dioxide (a major greenhouse gas) but destroying the very plants that can remove this gas from the air. Conversely, global warming increases extinction, both directly (killing corals) and indirectly (destroying the habitats of Arctic and Antarctic animals). As extinction increases, then, so does global warming, which in turn causes more extinction - and so on, into a downward spiral of destruction. Why, exactly, should we care? Let's start with the most celebrated case: the rainforests. Their loss will worsen global warming - raising temperatures, melting icecaps, and flooding coastal cities. And, as the forest habitat shrinks, so begins the inevitable contact between organisms that have not evolved together, a scenario played out many times, and one that is never good. Dreadful diseases have successfully jumped species boundaries, with humans as prime recipients. We have gotten aids from apes, sars from civets, and Ebola from fruit bats. Additional worldwide plagues from unknown microbes are a very real possibility. But it isn't just the destruction of the rainforests that should trouble us. Healthy ecosystems the world over provide hidden services like waste disposal, nutrient cycling, soil formation, water purification, and oxygen production. Such services are best rendered by ecosystems that are diverse. Yet, through both intention and accident, humans have introduced exotic species that turn biodiversity into monoculture. Fast-growing zebra mussels, for example, have outcompeted more than 15 species of native mussels in North America's Great Lakes and have damaged harbors and water-treatment plants. Native prairies are becoming dominated by single species (often genetically homogenous) of corn or wheat. Thanks to these developments, soils will erode and become unproductive - which, along with temperature change, will diminish agricultural yields. Meanwhile,with increased pollution and runoff, as well as reduced forest cover, ecosystems will no longer be able to purify water; and a shortage of clean water spells disaster. In many ways, oceans are the most vulnerable areas of all. As overfishing eliminates major predators, while polluted and warming waters kill off phytoplankton, the intricate aquatic food web could collapse from both sides. Fish, on which so many humans depend, will be a fond memory. As phytoplankton vanish, so does the ability of the oceans to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. (Half of the oxygen we breathe is made by phytoplankton, with the rest coming from land plants.) Species extinction is also imperiling coral reefs - a major problem since these reefs have far more than recreational value: They provide tremendous amounts of food for human populations and buffer coastlines against erosion. In fact, the global value of "hidden" services provided by ecosystems - those services, like waste disposal, that aren't bought and sold in the marketplace - has been estimated to be as much as $50 trillion per year, roughly equal to the gross domestic product of all countries combined. And that doesn't include tangible goods like fish and timber. Life as we know it would be impossible if ecosystems collapsed. Yet that is where we're heading if species extinction continues at its current pace. Extinction also has a huge impact on medicine. Who really cares if, say, a worm in the remote swamps of French Guiana goes extinct? Well, those who suffer from cardiovascular disease. The recent discovery of a rare South American leech has led to the isolation of a powerful enzyme that, unlike other anticoagulants, not only prevents blood from clotting but also dissolves existing clots. And it's not just this one species of worm: Its wriggly relatives have evolved other biomedically valuable proteins, including antistatin (a potential anticancer agent), decorsin and ornatin (platelet aggregation inhibitors), and hirudin (another anticoagulant). Plants, too, are pharmaceutical gold mines. The bark of trees, for example, has given us quinine (the first cure for malaria), taxol (a drug highly effective against ovarian and breast cancer), and aspirin. More than a quarter of the medicines on our pharmacy shelves were originally derived from plants. The sap of the Madagascar periwinkle contains more than 70 useful alkaloids, including vincristine, a powerful anticancer drug that saved the life of one of our friends. Of the roughly 250,000 plant species on Earth, fewer than 5 percent have been screened for pharmaceutical properties. Who knows what life-saving drugs remain to be discovered? Given current extinction rates, it's estimated that we're losing one valuable drug every two years. Our arguments so far have tacitly assumed that species are worth saving only in proportion to their economic value and their effects on our quality of life, an attitude that is strongly ingrained, especially in Americans. That is why conservationists always base their case on an economic calculus. But we biologists know in our hearts that there are deeper and equally compelling reasons to worry about the loss of biodiversity: namely, simple morality and intellectual values that transcend pecuniary interests. What, for example, gives us the right to destroy other creatures? And what could be more thrilling than looking around us, seeing that we are surrounded by our evolutionary cousins, and realizing that we all got here by the same simple process of natural selection? To biologists, and potentially everyone else, apprehending the genetic kinship and common origin of all species is a spiritual experience - not necessarily religious, but spiritual nonetheless, for it stirs the soul. But, whether or not one is moved by such concerns, it is certain that our future is bleak if we do nothing to stem this sixth extinction. We are creating a world in which exotic diseases flourish but natural medicinal cures are lost; a world in which carbon waste accumulates while food sources dwindle; a world of sweltering heat, failing crops, and impure water. In the end, we must accept the possibility that we ourselves are not immune to extinction. Or, if we survive, perhaps only a few of us will remain, scratching out a grubby existence on a devastated planet. Global warming will seem like a secondary problem when humanity finally faces the consequences of what we have done to nature: not just another Great Dying, but perhaps the greatest dying of them all.**

Soil erosion causes extinction
Allemang ‘7 **– feature writer for The Globe and Mail (John, 5/12/07, “Planet Earth has a dirty little secret,” Journal: Globe and Mail, p. 4)**

**Dirt is disappearing, and when it goes, we go. It's a simple fact that we're using up our finite supply of good soil faster than it can be made, and whatever our eyes choose to tell us, a crisis is looming. Of course, like so much else about dirt, even its do-or-die crisis manages to be barely perceptible. In a world prepared to welcome the inconvenient truths of environmental degradation, and even make them the markers of intellectual fashion, poor old untrendy dirt somehow falls to the bottom of the global to-do list. Air pollution, water contamination, the limited lifespan of fossil fuels, the urgent need to confront climate change no matter how far away its worst threats may be - we get it, whatever don't-worry governments and vested interests like to pretend to the contrary. But erosion as the ultimate catastrophe, the dusty death blow? Somehow it's hard to feel apocalyptic about something you buy at a garden centre, scrape off your boots before walking through the door or scrub off your lettuce before the salad can be made. "We take it for granted," agrees David R. Montgomery - which is a pretty hard admission for a man who has made it his goal to alert a distracted world to the crisis of lost soil. To his practised eyes, at least, the best part of the Earth is eroding and the danger signs are everywhere: bare plowed soil carried off by wind or rain, rivers choked by sediment from clear-cut forests, over-irrigated fields turned into salt-contaminated deserts, huge unprotected tracts of wheat or corn dependent on chemical fertilizer to replace the nutrients corporate agriculture discards, the constant stripping of topsoil to create new suburbias. Our complacency is so instinctive, our wastefulness so extreme, that Dr. Montgomery has come up with a disturbing new name for modern agriculture: soil mining. "We only have a fixed amount of soil - and we're digging it up," he says. Dr. Montgomery is a geomorphologist at the University of Washington in Seattle, a well-travelled and well-read monitor of Earth's thin skin who knows that a civilization's lifespan depends on how it treats - or mistreats - its dirt. As a student of the Earth's eons of slow but certain transformations, he is trained to spot the big-picture inevitabilities the rest of us miss, and of this he is certain: "We're on track to lose most of our agricultural soils. And even if we solve the water crisis and the climate crisis, if we don't conserve soil, then that will do us in." You hear that, and you look around at the lushness of life in the spring, and the doomsday scenario seems unconvincing. Dirt is everywhere, the fields are full of crops, the supermarket shelves have their usual cornucopia look of gross overabundance and, if there's a famine in a far-off place, as there always is, can it really all come down to a few inches of topsoil that has gone missing? Yes is the short answer, according to Dr. Montgomery's wide-ranging new book, Dirt: The Erosion of Civilizations, which is to be published this week and has been deemed "a compelling manifesto" by New Scientist magazine. He takes pains to demonstrate the key role played by soil degradation in almost every civilization that once claimed to dominate the Earth - a useful antidote to the Golden Age nostalgia for a more harmonious past that afflicts many in the environmental movement. Wrecking soil, he implies, is something humans do, given the opportunity, because we're programmed to think of immediate issues such as personal survival rather than forgoing our inheritance to benefit the farmers of the future. And one reason we can do this with a clear conscience is our belief that soil is everywhere. "People just don't realize that not all soils are good agricultural soils," Dr. Montgomery says. "And even with good soils, the pace at which it's being lost is slow by human standards even if it's quite rapid by geologic standards." You don't have to be a geologist to spot the problem. At least since the Dust Bowl crisis of the Depression era, when much of North America was blanketed by thick clouds of soil eroded off the drought-ridden prairie, soil specialists have put forward strong arguments for conservation - arguments that are all the more crucial since the western plains, as Dr. Montgomery observes, "are one of the few places on the planet that can produce agricultural surpluses and feed the world."**

US taking leadership on climate gets China and India on board
Shepard '11 **– Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher & Former Financial Representative and Army National Guard Accountant (Don, Article updated 5/22/11 – originally written in 2010, "U.S. Environmental Policy and Leadership," http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx. RG)**

**The Bush administration’s failure to see the big picture in reference to global environmental change can clearly be seen in the resulting outcomes of his eight years as president. The withdrawal of the U.S. from the Kyoto treaty is both an important symbol of American isolationism from Europe and a direct link as to why the country (and perhaps the world as a whole) has not reduced greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants that affect the global environment. The Kyoto agreement is not without flaws but the unwillingness to negotiate, or inaction, was not conducive to a good outcome for the global environment. "Greenhouse" Gases According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA) the United States greenhouse gas emissions went up by 1.4% in 2007. An article in the LA times states carbon dioxide emissions rose by nearly 2.0% in the U.S. in 2007 while Denmark’s went down by 8%, the U.K. and Germany 3%, and France and Australia 2%. Granted, this is only a single year, but considering the breadth of the consequences and that Bush had been in office since 2000, these numbers sum up rather well the effect of his administration on global environmental change. Bush Environmental Policies Overturned The ironic nature of the Bush administration’s response to environmental change is that the best aspect of it is reflected in policy’s that did not take effect. The administration made a habit of changing environmental regulations, many of which have been overturned by the Supreme Court. It's a tribute to our system that these efforts were not allowed to come to fruition. An example is the blocking of “changes to the rules that govern what kind of logging, mining or other activities can be allowed in national forests.” (Shogren, 2007) Carol Browner, head of the EPA in the Clinton administration and Obama energy “czarina”, is quoted as saying: "As dreadful as the Bush administration has been with respect to clean air and forests and all these environmental issues, the courts have been really our savior. And have time and time again in the last years [it has] stepped in." (Shogren, 2007) Another example of Bush environmental policy being thwarted is President Obama’s retracting of regulations inserted by Bush before he left office. One such regulation “would have opened 2 million acres of public land in Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah for oil-shale drilling.” (O'Carroll, 2009) Environment vs. Economy It appears that Bush was mired in the old ways of pitting the environment against the economy. In an April 2008 speech Bush states “The Kyoto Protocol would have required the United States to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The impact of this agreement, however, would have been to limit our economic growth…” (The White House Office of the Press Secretary, 2008) I maintain that this did not have to be, and that Obama has offered a glaring contrast to this outdated thinking. Obama campaigned on stimulating the economy in part by creating “green” jobs and fostering energy efficiency that will both save money and reduce fossil fuel use. Moving Forward There are numerous goals and programs of the new administration that were never considered by the Bush administration. These include a national Renewable Portfolio Standard, proposing a carbon cap and trade system, and already making it so states such as California can pass their own automobile fuel mileage standards that will likely be followed by other states. One of the biggest and perhaps controversial measures thus far is the April Environmental Protection Agency ruling making carbon dioxide a pollutant. A fairly novel idea being studied is to provide incentives for land owners (and money for planting in government owned forest land) to plant trees that can provide sinks for carbon. This is being carried out by a new department called the Office of Ecosystem Services and Markets. (Wilkinson, 2009) Will Obama Meet New Standards? Even with these goals and very early achievements it is unclear if the overall “political will”, no matter how different from the last eight years, is sufficient to tackle the challenges of global environmental change, particularly when the will of the presidential administration may not be enough. There are many representatives who do not share Obama’s enthusiasm for environmental issues. As pointed out previously, there have already been compromises made that have decreased funding for environmental initiatives. The American people can help by not letting the environmental agenda once again take a back seat, though only time will tell just how strong the will and influence of the Obama administration is. Opportunity for Leadership in Copenhagen The U.S. is the world superpower. I argue that the latest world economic troubles only serve to accentuate the extent to which this is true, as economies of the world are suffering due to the domino effect triggered by the collapse of the U.S. housing market. The Kyoto treaty was only a piece of paper without the U.S. on board. The other major polluting nations such as China and India will not take the problem of global environmental change seriously until America does. Copenhagen is a chance to right the ship before it is too late. Our nation is just as capable of steering the ship in the right direction as it is in the wrong direction. This means allowing Earth to take the helm, and remembering humanity adapts to her, not her to humanity. Update: Copenhagen; What happened? Dissapointment seems to be the predominant reaction from environmental organizations to the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Indeed, no binding agreement, or even a pledge to make a binding agreement in 2010 was achieved. This was not, however, the true test of the Obama administration's environmental policy. The real test is whether Obama can get a legitimate climate bill through the Senate. U.S. environmental leadership can still be the beacon it needs to be with a strong message from our lawmakers.**

Diplomatic measures mobilize global solutions to warming
Hague ‘10 **(William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)**

**But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world. A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration. We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge. And I will first argue today that an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, whatever the setbacks; and third, I will set out why effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response. Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security. You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water. As the world becomes more networked, the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world. No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique. While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future. So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough. The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity. Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences. It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy. For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century. At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away. To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations. Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits. And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely. Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal. Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver. The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home. That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act. The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that. And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change. And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition. But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light. We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one. That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift. There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy. A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now. So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking. When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world. The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate. So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper. We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries. Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction. There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry. But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too. So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective". We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy. Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services. I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India. The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy." Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives. On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate. And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth. A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity. It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market. In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain. The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge. India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022. South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway. The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest. Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat. We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition. We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge. We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus. A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice. We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.**

Only the US can solve warming and bio-diversity
Ivanova and Esty ‘8 ***Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and** Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)

In this article, we address these core questions. We argue that the next President of the United States must re-engage with other nations. Success in protecting the planet from climate change cannot be achieved by the United States acting on its own. International cooperation is essential. Similar collaborative efforts at the global scale will be required to protect the planet’s biological diversity, restore the vibrancy of the world’s fisheries, prevent the spread of persistent organic pollutants, conserve forests, and other issues that are inescapably trans-boundary in nature. We contend, moreover, that not only is U.S. participation critical, but U.S. leadership is crucial and necessary to achieve successful environmental outcomes. The U.S. environmental footprint is larger than any other country’s. The United States consumes a disproportionate share of the world’s energy and natural resources. With less than 5 percent of the world population, the United States uses 25 percent of the world’s fossil fuel resources—accounting for nearly 25 percent of the world’s annual coal burning, 26 percent of the world’s oil, and 27 percent of the world’s natural gas. 3 It also accounts for 18.5 percent of the consumption of global forestry products and 13.7 percent of the world’s water usage. The United States is in a unique position. Given its economic and strategic power as well as its financial and technological prowess, U.S. leadership could influence international environmental policy and promote effective environmental governance. Conversely, the record of the past fifteen years has demonstrated that “when the United States declines to exercise leadership, the impact is significant.” 4 Little progress is made without the United States. Reasserting global environmental leadership, however, will not be easy for the next U.S. president. There are considerable domestic challenges 60 SAIS Review SUm m eR–Fa l l 2008 as the U.S. public remains deeply ambivalent about international entanglements and international organizations—even those related to protecting the planet

**Contention 2 is Monitoring**

**Scenario 1 is disease –**

**Pandemic risk high now – monitoring satellites allows us to mitigate their spread**
**Ford et al ‘9** Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15)
The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26). An interesting question is why did we not see disease epidemics in Indonesia, following the devastating tsunami disaster of December 2004? Could rapid public health intervention be credited with minimizing spread of disease? In the case of Aceh Province, many communities reported diarrhea as the main cause of illness (in 85% of children <5 years of age), but no increases in deaths were reported, and no outbreaks of cholera or other potentially epidemic diseases occurred (27). Given the massive scale of the disaster, was this likely? In some towns, more than two thirds of the population died at the time of impact, almost 100% of homes were destroyed, and 100% of the population lacked access to clean water and sanitation (27). To a large extent, the Australian army and other groups are to be credited with rapidly deploying environmental health teams to swiftly implement public health measures, including provision of safe drinking water, proper sanitary facilities, and mosquito control measures (28). Widespread fecal pollution of the surface waters was shown, yet the saltiness of the potable water supply after the disaster made much of the water unpalatable. Wells were vulnerable, perhaps to other etiologic agents of fecal origin including viruses and Shigella spp., with greater probability of infection than Vibrio spp., thus leading to the widespread diarrhea. The most important lesson from the Asian tsunami is that disease epidemics can be prevented by public health intervention. Unfortunately, most flooding events, and other conditions that promote infectious disease epidemics, do not receive the same global media attention. A tsunami captures the imagination of the world in a way that weeks of rainfall in the Sudan or a rise in sea surface temperature cannot. However, if climatologic data can be used to predict future disease outbreaks, public health interventions can be mobilized in a more timely and proactive manner. A continuing concern is the conditions that result in newly emergent virulent strains of pathogens. Faruque et al. have provided molecular evidence that V. cholerae O139 strains are derived from O1 strains through genetic modification (29). In addition, Chakraborty et al. in Kolkata have seen the presence and expression of virulence genes in several environmental strains of V. cholerae cultured from surface waters (30). Recently, E. coli O157 has been isolated from the Ganges River in India for the first time (31). Indications are that it is metabolically different from E. coli O157 isolated from other parts of the world, but the conditions that have led to these differences are as yet unclear. From the above studies, risk for transmission of virulence genes is likely to be high, but studies of conditions promoting transmission and approaches to modeling resultant disease risks are in their infancy. New epidemic strains could potentially occur through mutation of existing epidemic strains or through gene transfer. Environmental stressors such as chemical contaminants are thought to accelerate both mutation rates and gene transfer (32). Thus, the degree of chemical pollution may need to be a component of disease models (in addition to other stressors). The scientific community is a long way from incorporating environment-gene interactions into predictive models and clarifying the risks posed to human society from emerging diseases. However, investigation of these parts of the pathogen's ecology should remain on the national research agenda as we move forward with developing predictive models of disease outbreaks. Current modeling of infectious diseases is by necessity retrospective. Environmental parameters measured by remote satellite imaging show the greatest promise for providing global coverage of changing environmental conditions. With current imaging technologies, we can measure sea surface temperature, sea surface height, chlorophyll A levels, and a variety of vegetation and soil indices, in addition to many other physical, biologic, and chemical parameters of the earth's surface and atmosphere. A variety of these parameters can be incorporated in complex mathematical models, together with biotic and ecologic variables of the pathogen and host life cycles, to correlate environment with outbreaks of disease (Figure 2). However, we are still far from being able to accurately predict future disease events on the basis of existing environmental conditions. Successful predictive modeling of disease and the establishment of early warning systems have reached a critical junction in development. As we improve our understanding of the biology and ecology of the pathogen, vectors, and hosts, our ability to accurately link environmental variables, particularly those related to climate change, will improve. What has become clear over the past few years is that satellite imaging can play a critical role in disease prediction and, therefore, inform our response to future outbreaks. We conclude that infectious disease events may be closely linked to environmental and global change. Satellite imaging may be critical for effective disease prediction and thus future mitigation of epidemic and pandemic diseases. We cannot stress too strongly our belief that a strong global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.

**Unanticipated epidemics cause extinction**
**Powell 2k** – Corey S. Powell, Senior Editor, Discover Magazine; Adjunct Professor, Science Journalism, NYU; Author: God in the Equation: How Einstein Transformed Religion, October 1, 2000, “20 Ways the World Could End,” Discover Magazine, http://discovermagazine.com/2000/oct/featworld

Global epidemics If Earth doesn't do us in, our fellow organisms might be up to the task. Germs and people have always coexisted, but occasionally the balance gets out of whack. The Black Plague killed one European in four during the 14th century; influenza took at least 20 million lives between 1918 and 1919; the AIDS epidemic has produced a similar death toll and is still going strong. From 1980 to 1992, reports the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, mortality from infectious disease in the United States rose 58 percent. Old diseases such as cholera and measles have developed new resistance to antibiotics. Intensive agriculture and land development is bringing humans closer to animal pathogens. International travel means diseases can spread faster than ever. Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert who recently left the Minnesota Department of Health, described the situation as "like trying to swim against the current of a raging river." The grimmest possibility would be the emergence of a strain that spreads so fast we are caught off guard or that resists all chemical means of control, perhaps as a result of our stirring of the ecological pot. About 12,000 years ago, a sudden wave of mammal extinctions swept through the Americas. Ross MacPhee of the American Museum of Natural History argues the culprit was extremely virulent disease, which humans helped transport as they migrated into the New World.

**Only increasing climate satellites solve**
**Lancet '9** – Lancet and University College London Institute for Global Health Commission, represting over 20 authors, many PhD's, from the Institute for Global Health, UCL Medical School, UCL Environment Institute, Centre for International Health and Development, and various other programs (5/19/09, "Managing the health eﬀects of climate change," http://www.ucl.ac.uk/global-health/ucl-lancet-climate-change.pdf, RG)

Changing patterns of disease and mortality A fundamental requisite for health adaptation to climate change is to improve monitoring and surveillance of disease and mortality in sensitive regions. In developing countries, disease surveillance systems are inconsistent and poorly managed. The challenge is to incorporate a strong public health infrastructure and empower communities to achieve eﬀective disease surveillance. Health early warning systems are especially important in the context of heatstroke, extreme weather events, and disease outbreaks for developing and developed countries. The eﬀectiveness of health early warning systems depends on the past and current disease monitoring and surveillance, and accurate and reliable meteorological and climatic forecasts. Health early warning systems are a win-win strategy that reduces the risk of disease whilst increasing adaptive capacity that is most essential in the context of developing countries. In the developing world, no region-speciﬁc projections of changes in health-related exposures and no research projecting health outcomes under various future emissions and adaptation scenarios compared with many parts of developed countries exist. 1,101 Recent reports have highlighted the urgent need for improved surveillance systems and technologies, especially for infectious diseases in developing countries and for increased cooperation between states in the identiﬁcation and public health response to outbreaks and epidemics. 102

**Scenario 2 is oceans –**

**Ocean ecosystems are collapsing – only the aff can mobilize international solutions**
**Sherman ‘11** (Kenneth, 2011, “The application of satellite remote sensing for assessing productivity in relation to fisheries yields of the world’s large marine ecosystems,” ICES Journal of Marine Science, US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Northeast Fisheries Science Center, Ph.D, Director of U.S. LME Program, Director of the Narragansett Laboratory and Office of Marine Ecosystem Studies at the Northeast Fisheries Science Center, adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Oceanography at the University of Rhode Island)

In 1992, world leaders at the historical UN Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) recognized that the exploitation of resources in coastal oceans was becoming increasingly unsustainable, resulting in an international effort to assess, recover, and manage goods and services of large marine ecosystems (LMEs). More than $3 billion in support to 110 economically developing nations have been dedicated to operationalizing a five-module approach supporting LME assessment and management practices. An important component of this effort focuses on the effects of climate change on fisheries biomass yields of LMEs, using satellite remote sensing and in situ sampling of key indicators of changing ecological conditions. Warming appears to be reducing primary productivity in the lower latitudes, where stratification of the water column has intensified. Fishery biomass yields in the Subpolar LMEs of the Northeast Atlantic are also increasing as zooplankton levels increase with warming. During the current period of climate warming, it is especially important for space agency programmes in Asia, Europe, and the United States to continue to provide satellite-borne radiometry data to the global networks of LME assessment scientists. Overfishing, pollution, habitat loss, and climate change are causing serious degradation in the world’s coastal oceans and a downward spiral in economic benefits from marine goods and services. Prompt and large-scale changes in the use of ocean resources are needed to overcome this downward spiral. In 1992, the world community of nations convened the first global conference of world leaders in Rio de Janeiro to address ways and means to improve the degraded condition of the global environment (Robinson et al., 1992). Ten years later (2002), at a follow-up World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg (Sherman, 2006), world leaders agreed to a Plan of Implementation for several marine-related targets including achievement of: (i) “substantial” reductions in land-based sources of pollution by 2006; (ii) introduction of the ecosystems approach to marine resource assessment and management by 2010; (iii) designation of a network of marine protected areas by 2012; and (iv) maintenance and restoration of fish stocks to maximum sustainable yield levels by 2015. More recently, in Copenhagen in 2009, world leaders agreed to non-binding actions to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to mitigate the effects of global climate change. For the period 2010–2020, the international community of maritime nations is pursuing solutions for recovering depleted marine fish stocks, restoring degraded habitats, controlling pollution, nutrient overenrichment, and ocean acidification, conserving biodiversity, and adapting to climate change. This effort at improving the ecological condition of the world’s 64 large marine ecosystems (LMEs) is global in scope and ecosystems-orientated in approach (Sherman et al., 2005). LMEs are regions of 200 000 km2 or more, encompassing coastal areas from estuaries to the continental slope and the seaward extent of well-defined current systems along coasts lacking continental shelves (Figure 1). They are defined by ecological criteria including bathymetry, hydrography, productivity, and trophically linked populations (Sherman, 1994). The LMEs produce 80% of the world’s marine fisheries yields annually and are growing sinks of coastal pollution and nutrient overenrichment. They also harbour degraded habitats (e.g. corals, seagrasses, mangroves, and oxygen-depleted dead zones). The Global Environment Facility (GEF), a financial group located in Washington, DC, supports developing countries committed to the recovery and sustainability of coastal ocean areas, by providing financial and catalytic support to projects that use LMEs as the geographic focus for ecosystem-based strategies to reduce coastal pollution, control nutrient overenrichment, restore damaged habitats, recover depleted fisheries, protect biodiversity, and adapt to climate change (Duda and Sherman, 2002).

**Accelerating ocean loss causes extinction**
**Rogers and Laffoley 6/20**/11 Alex David, Ph.D. in marine invertebrate systematics and geneticsfrom the University of Liverpool is a Professor in Conservation Biology at the Department of Zoology, University of Oxford and Dan, PhD on marine ecology at the University of Exeter, and Senior Advisor, Marine Science and Conservation Global Marine and Polar Programme (IPSO Oxford, “International earth system expert workshop on ocean stresses and impacts”, July 20, 2011, http://www.stateoftheocean.org/pdfs/1906_IPSO-LONG.pdf)

The workshop enabled leading experts to take a global view on how all the different effects we are having on the ocean are compromising its ability to support us. This examination of synergistic threats leads to the conclusion that we have underestimated the overall risks and that the whole of marine degradation is greater than the sum of its parts, and that degradation is now happening at a faster rate than predicted. It is clear that the traditional economic and consumer values that formerly served society well, when coupled with current rates of population increase, are not sustainable. The ocean is the largest ecosystem on Earth, supports us and maintains our world in a habitable condition. To maintain the goods and services it has provided to humankind for millennia demands change in how we view, manage, govern and use marine ecosystems. The scale of the stresses on the ocean means that deferring action will increase costs in the future leading to even greater losses of benefits. The key points needed to drive a common sense rethink are: • Human actions have resulted in warming and acidification of the oceans and are now causing increased hypoxia. Studies of the Earth’s past indicate that these are three symptoms that indicate disturbances of the carbon cycle associated with each of the previous five mass extinctions on Earth (e.g. Erwin, 2008; Veron, 2008a,b; Veron et al., 2009; Barnosky et al., 2011). • The speeds of many negative changes to the ocean are near to or are tracking the worstcase scenarios from IPCC and other predictions. Some are as predicted, but many are faster than anticipated, and many are still accelerating. Consequences of current rates of change already matching those predicted under the “worst case scenario” include: the rate of decrease in Arctic Sea Ice (Stroeve et al., 2007; Wang & Overland, 2009) and in the accelerated melting of both the Greenland icesheet (Velicogna, 2009; Khan et al., 2010; Rignot et al., 2011) and Antarctic ice sheets (Chen et al., 2009; Rignot et al., 2008, 2011; Velicogna, 2009); sea level rise (Rahmstorf 2007a,b; Rahmstorf et al., 2007; Nicholls et al., 2011); and release of trapped methane from the seabed (Westbrook et al., 2009; Shakova et al., 2010; although not yet globally significant Dlugokencky et al., 2009). The ‘worst case’ effects are compounding other changes more consistent with predictions including: changes in the distribution and abundance of marine species (Beaugrand & Reid, 2003; Beaugrand 2004, 2009; Beaugrand et al., 2003; 2010; Cheung et al. 2009, 2010, Reid et al., 2007; Johnson et al., 2011; Philippart et al., 2011; Schiel, 2011; Wassmann et al., 2011; Wernberg et al., 2011); changes in primary production (Behrenfeld et al., 2006; Chavez et al., 2011); changes in the distribution of harmful algal blooms (Heisler et al., 2008; Bauman et al., 2010); increases in health hazards in the oceans (e.g. ciguatera, pathogens; Van Dolah, 2000; Lipp et al., 2002; Dickey & Plakas, 2009); and loss of both large, longklived and small fish species causing widespread impacts on marine ecosystems, including direct impacts on predator and prey species, the simplification and destabilization of food webs, reduction of resilience to the effects of climate change (e.g. Jackson et al. 2001; Pauly et al., 1998; Worm & Myers, 2003; Baum & Myers, 2004; Rosenberg et al., 2005; Worm et al., 2006; Myers et al., 2007; Jackson, 2008; Baum & Worm, 2009; Ferretti et al., 2010; Hutchings et al., 2010; WardkPaige et al., 2010; Pinskya et al., 2011). • The magnitude of the cumulative impacts on the ocean is greater than previously understood Interactions between different impacts can be negatively synergistic (negative impact greater than sum of individual stressors) or they can be antagonistic (lowering the effects of individual impacts). Examples of such interactions include: combinations of overfishing, physical disturbance, climate change effects, nutrient runoff and introductions of nonknative species leading to explosions of these invasive species, including harmful algal blooms, and dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2001, 2002; Daskalov et al., 2007; Purcell et al., 2007; Boero et al., 2008; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey & Plakas, 2009; Bauman et al., 2010; VaquerkSunur & Duarte, 2010); increased temperature and acidification increasing the susceptibility of corals to bleaching (Anthony et al., 2008) and acting synergistically to impact the reproduction and development of other marine invertebrates (Parker et al., 2009); changes in the behavior, fate and toxicity of heavy metals with acidification (Millero et al., 2009; Pascal et al., 2010); acidification may reduce the limiting effect of iron availability on primary production in some parts of the ocean (Shi et al., 2010; King et al., 2011); increased uptake of plastics by fauna (Andrady 2011, Hirai & Takada et al. 2011, Murray & Cowie, 2011), and increased bioavailability of pollutants through adsorption onto the surface of microplastic particles (Graham & Thompson 2009, Moore 2008, Thomson, et al., 2009); and feedbacks of climate change impacts on the oceans (temperature rise, sea level rise, loss of ice cover, acidification, increased storm intensity, methane release) on their rate of CO2 uptake and global warming (Lenton et al., 2008; Reid et al 2009). • Timelines for action are shrinking. The longer the delay in reducing emissions the higher the annual reduction rate will have to be and the greater the financial cost. Delays will mean increased environmental damage with greater socioeconomic impacts and costs of mitigation and adaptation measures. • Resilience of the ocean to climate change impacts is severely compromised by the other stressors from human activities, including fisheries, pollution and habitat destruction. Examples include the overfishing of reef grazers, nutrient runoff, and other forms of pollution (presence of pathogens or endocrine disrupting chemicals (Porte et al., 2006; OSPAR 2010)) reducing the recovery ability of reefs from temperaturekinduced mass coral bleaching (Hoeghk Guldberg et al., 2007; Mumby et al., 2007; Hughes et al., 2010; Jackson, 2010; Mumby & Harborne, 2010) . These multiple stressors promote the phase shift of reef ecosystems from being coralkdominated to algal dominated. The loss of genetic diversity from overfishing reduces ability to adapt to stressors. • Ecosystem collapse is occurring as a result of both current and emerging stressors. Stressors include chemical pollutants, agriculture runkoff, sediment loads and overkextraction of many components of food webs which singly and together severely impair the functioning of ecosystems. Consequences include the potential increase of harmful algal blooms in recent decades (Van Dolah, 2000; Landsberg, 2002; Heisler et al., 2008; Dickey & Plakas, 2009; Wang & Wu, 2009); the spread of oxygen depleted or dead zones (Rabalais et al., 2002; Diaz & Rosenberg, 2008; VaquerkSunyer & Duarte, 2008); the disturbance of the structure and functioning of marine food webs, to the benefit of planktonic organisms of low nutritional value, such as jellyfish or other gelatinousklike organisms (Broduer et al., 1999; Mills, 2001; Pauly et al. 2009; Boero et al., 2008; Moore et al., 2008); dramatic changes in the microbial communities with negative impacts at the ecosystem scale (Dinsdale et al., 2008; Jackson, 2010); and the impact of emerging chemical contaminants in ecosystems (la Farré et al., 2008). This impairment damages or eliminates the ability of ecosystems to support humans. • The extinction threat to marine species is rapidly increasing. The main causes of extinctions of marine species to date are overexploitation and habitat loss (Dulvy et al., 2009). However climate change is increasingly adding to this, as evidenced by the recent IUCN Red List Assessment of reforming corals (Carpenter et al., 2008). Some other species ranges have already extended or shifted polekwards and into deeper cooler waters (Reid et al., 2009); this may not be possible for some species to achieve, potentially leading to reduced habitats and more extinctions. Shifts in currents and temperatures will affect the food supply of animals, including at critical early stages, potentially testing their ability to survive. The participants concluded that not only are we already experiencing severe declines in many species to the point of commercial extinction in some cases, and an unparalleled rate of regional extinctions of habitat types (eg mangroves and seagrass meadows), but we now face losing marine species and entire marine ecosystems, such as coral reefs, within a single generation. Unless action is taken now, the consequences of our activities are at a high risk of causing, through the combined effects of climate change, overexploitation, pollution and habitat loss, the next globally significant extinction event in the ocean. It is notable that the occurrence of multiple high intensity stressors has been a prerequisite for all the five global extinction events of the past 600 million years (Barnosky et al., 2009).

**Independently satellite imagery key to save coral reef ecosystems**
**Robinson ‘10** (Ian, 2010, Discovering the Ocean from Space [electronic resource] The unique applications of satellite oceanography / by Ian S. Robinson., BA and MA Mechanical Sciences, Cambridge University, PhD Engineering Magneto-hydrodynamics, University of Warwick, 1973, Higher and Senior Scientific Officer, Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, Bidston, Lecturer, senior lecturer and reader, University of Southampton Department of Oceanography, Head of Department of Oceanography, Professor, University of Southampton School of Ocean and Earth Science, Professorial Fellow, Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton)

However, there is one aspect of reef biology in which the wider overview provided by satellite oceanography techniques has become essential, and important enough to require this subsection to itself. This is the issue of coral bleaching, and the role that satellite monitoring of sea surface temperature (SST) plays in identifying regions where reefs are at risk of bleaching. Corals are underwater animals that attach themselves to stony substrates. The order of corals known as stony corals, or scleractinians, are found as large colonies of individual coral polyps, each of which produces limestone deposits. Over the years these deposits have created the large reef systems found in shallow tropical and temperate seas, which provide a unique habitat for rich and complex ecosystems (see, e.g., pp. 117–141 in Barnes and Hughes, 1999). Corals thrive by hosting within their cells symbiotic algae called Zooxanthellae, which provide the coral with oxygen and organic compounds resulting from photosynthesis, while themselves obtaining from the coral carbon dioxide and other chemical compounds needed for photosynthesis. The algae give coral reefs their rich coloration and the symbiotic relationship is essential for the health of the whole reef ecosystem. Coral bleaching is the name given to the situation when corals are subject to physiological stress and respond by ejecting the zooxanthellae. The departure of the algae is visually evident because corals lose the pigments that give them their yellow or brown coloration. In this case the white limestone substrate that the corals have deposited shows through the translucent cells of the polyps which then appear pale or even white. If the stress is quickly removed the algae return within a few weeks and the corals recover, but if the stress is prolonged for many weeks the corals will die and continue to appear stark white. The loss of live corals eventually causes damage to the whole reef ecosystem. Consequently coral-bleaching events pose a serious threat that is taken seriously by marine environmental managers.

**Coral reefs prevent extinction**
**Philippine Daily Inquirer ‘2**
[“REEFS UNDER STRESS”, 12-10, L/N]

The artificial replacement of corals is a good start. Coral reefs are the marine equivalent of rainforests that are also being destroyed at an alarming rate not only in the Philippines but all over the world. The World Conservation Union says reefs are one of the "essential life support systems" necessary for human survival, homes to huge numbers of animals and plants. Dr. Helen T. Yap of the Marine Science Institute of the University of the Philippines said that the country's coral reefs, together with those of Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, contain the biggest number of species of plants and animals. "They lie at the center of biodiversity in our planet," she said.

**Plan: The United States federal government should increase its Earth observation capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention 3 is No War**

**Cooperation is more likely than competition**
**Deudney and Ikenberry 09** [Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing factors and forces. Indeed, contrary to what the revivalists describe, the most striking features of the contemporary international landscape are the intensification of economic globalization, thickening institutions, and shared problems of interdependence. The overall structure of the international system today is quite unlike that of the nineteenth century. Compared to older orders, the contemporary liberal-centered international order provides a set of constraints and opportunities -- of pushes and pulls -- that reduce the likelihood of severe conflict while creating strong imperatives for cooperative problem solving. Those invoking the nineteenth century as a model for the twenty-first also fail to acknowledge the extent to which war as a path to conflict resolution and great-power expansion has become largely obsolete. Most important, nuclear weapons have transformed great-power war from a routine feature of international politics into an exercise in national suicide. With all of the great powers possessing nuclear weapons and ample means to rapidly expand their deterrent forces, warfare among these states has truly become an option of last resort. The prospect of such great losses has instilled in the great powers a level of caution and restraint that effectively precludes major revisionist efforts. Furthermore, the diffusion of small arms and the near universality of nationalism have severely limited the ability of great powers to conquer and occupy territory inhabited by resisting populations (as Algeria, Vietnam, Afghanistan, and now Iraq have demonstrated). Unlike during the days of empire building in the nineteenth century, states today cannot translate great asymmetries of power into effective territorial control; at most, they can hope for loose hegemonic relationships that require them to give something in return. Also unlike in the nineteenth century, today the density of trade, investment, and production networks across international borders raises even more the costs of war. A Chinese invasion of Taiwan, to take one of the most plausible cases of a future interstate war, would pose for the Chinese communist regime daunting economic costs, both domestic and international. Taken together, these changes in the economy of violence mean that the international system is far more primed for peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge. The autocratic revival thesis neglects other key features of the international system as well. In the nineteenth century, rising states faced an international environment in which they could reasonably expect to translate their growing clout into geopolitical changes that would benefit themselves. But in the twenty-first century, the status quo is much more difficult to overturn. Simple comparisons between China and the United States with regard to aggregate economic size and capability do not reflect the fact that the United States does not stand alone but rather is the head of a coalition of liberal capitalist states in Europe and East Asia whose aggregate assets far exceed those of China or even of a coalition of autocratic states. Moreover, potentially revisionist autocratic states, most notably China and Russia, are already substantial players and stakeholders in an ensemble of global institutions that make up the status quo, not least the UN Security Council (in which they have permanent seats and veto power). Many other global institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, are configured in such a way that rising states can increase their voice only by buying into the institutions. The pathway to modernity for rising states is not outside and against the status quo but rather inside and through the flexible and accommodating institutions of the liberal international order. The fact that these autocracies are capitalist has profound implications for the nature of their international interests that point toward integration and accommodation in the future. The domestic viability of these regimes hinges on their ability to sustain high economic growth rates, which in turn is crucially dependent on international trade and investment; today's autocracies may be illiberal, but they remain fundamentally dependent on a liberal international capitalist system. It is not surprising that China made major domestic changes in order to join the WTO or that Russia is seeking to do so now. The dependence of autocratic capitalist states on foreign trade and investment means that they have a fundamental interest in maintaining an open, rule-based economic system. (Although these autocratic states do pursue bilateral trade and investment deals, particularly in energy and raw materials, this does not obviate their more basic dependence on and commitment to the WTO order.) In the case of China, because of its extensive dependence on industrial exports, the WTO may act as a vital bulwark against protectionist tendencies in importing states. Given their position in this system, which so serves their interests, the autocratic states are unlikely to become champions of an alternative global or regional economic order, let alone spoilers intent on seriously damaging the existing one. The prospects for revisionist behavior on the part of the capitalist autocracies are further reduced by the large and growing social networks across international borders. Not only have these states joined the world economy, but their people -- particularly upwardly mobile and educated elites -- have increasingly joined the world community. In large and growing numbers, citizens of autocratic capitalist states are participating in a sprawling array of transnational educational, business, and avocational networks. As individuals are socialized into the values and orientations of these networks, stark "us versus them" cleavages become more difficult to generate and sustain. As the Harvard political scientist Alastair Iain Johnston has argued, China's ruling elite has also been socialized, as its foreign policy establishment has internalized the norms and practices of the international diplomatic community. China, far from cultivating causes for territorial dispute with its neighbors, has instead sought to resolve numerous historically inherited border conflicts, acting like a satisfied status quo state. These social and diplomatic processes and developments suggest that there are strong tendencies toward normalization operating here. Finally, there is an emerging set of global problems stemming from industrialism and economic globalization that will create common interests across states regardless of regime type. Autocratic China is as dependent on imported oil as are democratic Europe, India, Japan, and the United States, suggesting an alignment of interests against petroleum-exporting autocracies, such as Iran and Russia. These states share a common interest in price stability and supply security that could form the basis for a revitalization of the International Energy Agency, the consumer association created during the oil turmoil of the 1970s. The emergence of global warming and climate change as significant problems also suggests possibilities for alignments and cooperative ventures cutting across the autocratic-democratic divide. Like the United States, China is not only a major contributor to greenhouse gas accumulation but also likely to be a major victim of climate-induced desertification and coastal flooding. Its rapid industrialization and consequent pollution means that China, like other developed countries, will increasingly need to import technologies and innovative solutions for environmental management. Resource scarcity and environmental deterioration pose global threats that no state will be able to solve alone, thus placing a further premium on political integration and cooperative institution building. Analogies between the nineteenth century and the twenty-first are based on a severe mischaracterization of the actual conditions of the new era. The declining utility of war, the thickening of international transactions and institutions, and emerging resource and environmental interdependencies together undercut scenarios of international conflict and instability based on autocratic-democratic rivalry and autocratic revisionism. In fact, the conditions of the twenty-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.

**No accidents AND no escalation from any other scenario**
**Quinlan 09** [Michael, Former Permanent Under-Sec. State – UK Ministry of Defense, “Thinking about Nuclear Weapons: Principles, Problems, Prospects”, p. 63-69]

Even if initial nuclear use did not quickly end the fighting, the supposition of inexorable momentum in a developing exchange, with each side rushing to overreaction amid confusion and uncertainty, is implausible. It fails to consider what the situation of the decisionmakers would really be. Neither side could want escalation. Both would be appalled at what was going on. Both would be desperately looking for signs that the other was ready to call a halt. Both, given the capacity for evasion or concealment which modem delivery platforms and vehicles can possess, could have in reserve significant forces invulnerable enough not to entail use-or-lose pressures. (It may be more open to question, as noted earlier, whether newer nuclearweapon possessors can be immediately in that position; but it is within reach of any substantial state with advanced technological capabilities, and attaining it is certain to be a high priority in the development of forces.) As a result, neither side can have any predisposition to suppose, in an ambiguous situation of fearful risk, that the right course when in doubt is to go on copiously launching weapons. And none of this analysis rests on any presumption of highly subtle or pre-concerted rationality. The rationality required is plain. The argument is reinforced if we consider the possible reasoning of an aggressor at a more dispassionate level. Any substantial nuclear armoury can inflict destruction outweighing any possible prize that aggression could hope to seize. A state attacking the possessor of such an armoury must therefore be doing so (once given that it cannot count upon destroying the armoury pre-emptively) on a judgement that the possessor would be found lacking in the will to use it. If the attacked possessor used nuclear weapons, whether first or in response to the aggressor's own first use, this judgement would begin to look dangerously precarious. There must be at least a substantial possibility of the aggressor leaders' concluding that their initial judgement had been mistaken—that the risks were after all greater than whatever prize they had been seeking, and that for their own country's , survival they must call off the aggression. Deterrence planning such as that of NATO was directed in the first place to preventing the initial misjudgement and in the second, if it were nevertheless made, to compelling such a reappraisal. The former aim had to have primacy, because it could not be taken for granted that the latter was certain to work. But there was no ground for assuming in advance, for all possible scenarios, that the chance of its working must be negligible. An aggressor state would itself be at huge risk if nuclear war developed, as its leaders would know. It may be argued that a policy which abandons hope of physically defeating the enemy and simply hopes to get him to desist is pure gamble, a matter of who blinks first; and that the political and moral nature of most likely aggressors, almost ex hypothesi, makes them the less likely to blink. One response to this is to ask what is the alternative—it can only be surrender. But a more positive and hopeful answer lies in the fact that the criticism is posed in a political vacuum. Real-life conflict would have a political context. The context which concerned NATO during the cold war, for example, was one of defending vital interests against a postlated aggressor whose own vital interests would not be engaged, or would be less engaged. Certainty is not possible, but a clear asymmetry of vital interest is a legitimate basis for expecting an asymmetry, credible to both sides, of resolve in conflict. That places upon statesmen, as page 23 has noted, the key task in deterrence of building up in advance a clear and shared grasp of where limits lie. That was plainly achieved in cold-war Europe. If vital interests have been defined in a way that is dear, and also clearly not overlapping or incompatible with those of the adversary, a credible basis has been laid for the likelihood of greater resolve in resistance. It was also sometimes suggested by critics that whatever might be indicated by theoretical discussion of political will and interests, the military environment of nuclear warfare—particularly difficulties of communication and control—would drive escalation with overwhelming probability to the limit. But it is obscure why matters should be regarded as inevitably .so for every possible level and setting of action. Even if the history of war suggested (as it scarcely does) that military decision-makers are mostly apt to work on the principle 'When in doubt, lash out', the nuclear revolution creates an utterly new situation. The pervasive reality, always plain to both sides during the cold war, is `If this goes on to the end, we are all ruined'. Given that inexorable escalation would mean catastrophe for both, it would be perverse to suppose them permanently incapable of framing arrangements which avoid it. As page 16 has noted, NATO gave its military commanders no widespread delegated authority, in peace or war, to launch nuclear weapons without specific political direction. Many types of weapon moreover had physical safeguards such as PALs incorporated to reinforce organizational ones. There were multiple communication and control systems for passing information, orders, and prohibitions. Such systems could not be totally guaranteed against disruption if at a fairly intense level of strategic exchange—which was only one of many possible levels of conflict— an adversary judged it to be in his interest to weaken political control. It was far from clear why he necessarily should so judge. Even then, however, it remained possible to operate on a general fail-safe presumption: no authorization, no use. That was the basis on which NATO operated. If it is feared that the arrangements which 1 a nuclear-weapon possessor has in place do not meet such standards in some respects, the logical course is to continue to improve them rather than to assume escalation to be certain and uncontrollable, with all the enormous inferences that would have to flow from such an assumption. The likelihood of escalation can never be 100 per cent, and never zero. Where between those two extremes it may lie can never be precisely calculable in advance; and even were it so calculable, it would not be uniquely fixed—it would stand to vary hugely with circumstances. That there should be any risk at all of escalation to widespread nuclear war must be deeply disturbing, and decision-makers would always have to weigh it most anxiously. But a pair of key truths about it need to be recognized. The first is that the risk of escalation to large-scale nuclear war is inescapably present in any significant armed conflict between nuclear-capable powers, whoever may have started the conflict and whoever may first have used any particular category of weapon. The initiator of the conflict will always have physically available to him options for applying more force if he meets effective resistance. If the risk of escalation, whatever its degree of probability, is to be regarded as absolutely unacceptable, the necessary inference is that a state attacked by a substantial nuclear power must forgo military resistance. It must surrender, even if it has a nuclear armoury of its own. But the companion truth is that, as page 47 has noted, the risk of escalation is an inescapable burden also upon the aggressor. The exploitation of that burden is the crucial route, if conflict does break out, for managing it, to a tolerable outcome--the only route, indeed, intermediate between surrender and holocaust, and so the necessary basis for deterrence beforehand. The working out of plans to exploit escalation risk most effectively in deterring potential aggression entails further and complex issues. It is for example plainly desirable, wherever geography, politics, and available resources so permit without triggering arms races, to make provisions and dispositions that are likely to place the onus of making the bigger, and more evidently dangerous steps in escalation upon the aggressor volib wishes to maintain his attack, rather than upon the defender. (The customary shorthand for this desirable posture used to be 'escalation dominance'.) These issues are not further discussed here. But addressing them needs to start from acknowledgement that there are in any event no certainties or absolutes available, no options guaranteed to be risk-free and cost-free. Deterrence is not possible without escalation risk; and its presence can point to no automatic policy conclusion save for those who espouse outright pacifism and accept its consequences. Accident and Miscalculation Ensuring the safety and security of nuclear weapons plainly needs to be taken most seriously. Detailed information is understandably not published, but such direct evidence as there is suggests that it always has been so taken in every possessor state, with the inevitable occasional failures to follow strict procedures dealt with rigorously. Critics have nevertheless from time to time argued that the possibility of accident involving nuclear weapons is so substantial that it must weigh heavily in the entire evaluation of whether war-prevention structures entailing their existence should be tolerated at all. Two sorts of scenario are usually in question. The first is that of a single grave event involving an unintended nuclear explosion—a technical disaster at a storage site, for example, Dr the accidental or unauthorized launch of a delivery system with a live nuclear warhead. The second is that of some event—perhaps such an explosion or launch, or some other mishap such as malfunction or misinterpretation of radar signals or computer systems—initiating a sequence of response and counter-response that culminated in a nuclear exchange which no one had truly intended. No event that is physically possible can be said to be of absolutely zero probability (just as at an opposite extreme it is absurd to claim, as has been heard from distinguished figures, that nuclear-weapon use can be guaranteed to happen within some finite future span despite not having happened for over sixty years). But human affairs cannot be managed to the standard of either zero or total probability. We have to assess levels between those theoretical limits and weigh their reality and implications against other factors, in security planning as in everyday life. There have certainly been, across the decades since 1945, many known accidents involving nuclear weapons, from transporters skidding off roads to bomber aircraft crashing with or accidentally dropping the weapons they carried (in past days when such carriage was a frequent feature of readiness arrangements----it no longer is). A few of these accidents may have released into the nearby environment highly toxic material. None however has entailed a nuclear detonation. Some commentators suggest that this reflects bizarrely good fortune amid such massive activity and deployment over so many years. A more rational deduction from the facts of this long experience would however be that the probability of any accident triggering a nuclear explosion is extremely low. It might be further noted that the mechanisms needed to set off such an explosion are technically demanding, and that in a large number of ways the past sixty years have seen extensive improvements in safety arrangements for both the design and the handling of weapons. It is undoubtedly possible to see respects in which, after the cold war, some of the factors bearing upon risk may be new or more adverse; but some are now plainly less so. The years which the world has come through entirely without accidental or unauthorized detonation have included early decades in which knowledge was sketchier, precautions were less developed, and weapon designs were less ultra-safe than they later became, as well as substantial periods in which weapon numbers were larger, deployments more widespread and diverse, movements more frequent, and several aspects of doctrine and readiness arrangements more tense. Similar considerations apply to the hypothesis of nuclear war being mistakenly triggered by false alarm. Critics again point to the fact, as it is understood, of numerous occasions when initial steps in alert sequences for US nuclear forces were embarked upon, or at least called for, by, indicators mistaken or misconstrued. In none of these instances, it is accepted, did matters get at all near to nuclear launch--extraordinary good fortune again, critics have suggested. But the rival and more logical inference from hundreds of events stretching over sixty years of experience presents itself once more: that the probability of initial misinterpretation leading far towards mistaken launch is remote. Precisely because any nuclear-weapon possessor recognizes the vast gravity of any launch, release sequences have many steps, and human decision is repeatedly interposed as well as capping the sequences. To convey that because a first step was prompted the world somehow came close to accidental nuclear war is wild hyperbole, rather like asserting, when a tennis champion has lost his opening service game, that he was nearly beaten in straight sets. History anyway scarcely offers any ready example of major war started by accident even before the nuclear revolution imposed an order-of-magnitude increase in caution. It was occasionally conjectured that nuclear war might be triggered by the real but accidental or unauthorized launch of a strategic nuclear-weapon delivery system in the direction of a potential adversary. No such launch is known to have occurred in over sixty years. The probability of it is therefore very low. But even if it did happen, the further hypothesis of it initiating a general nuclear exchange is far-fetched. It fails to consider the real situation of decision-makers as pages 63-4 have brought out. The notion that cosmic holocaust might be mistakenly precipitated in this way belongs to science fiction.

**Shared interests prevent great power conflict**
**Gelb 10** - President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a senior official in the U.S. Defense Department from 1967 to 1969 and in the State Department from 1977 to 1979 (Leslie, Foreign Affairs, “GDP Now Matters More Than Force: A U.S. Foreign Policy for the Age of Economic Power,” November/December, proquest)

Also reducing the likelihood of conflict today is that there is no arena in which the vital interests of great powers seriously clash. Indeed, the most worrisome security threats today--rogue states with nuclear weapons and terrorists with weapons of mass destruction--actually tend to unite the great powers more than divide them. In the past, and specifically during the first era of globalization, major powers would war over practically nothing. Back then, they fought over the Balkans, a region devoid of resources and geographic importance, a strategic zero. Today, they are unlikely to shoulder their arms over almost anything, even the highly strategic Middle East. All have much more to lose than to gain from turmoil in that region. To be sure, great powers such as China and Russia will tussle with one another for advantages, but they will stop well short of direct confrontation..

**Nuclear war won’t cause extinction**
**Martin ’84** (Brian, Research Associate – Australian National University, SANA Update, “Extinction Politics”, No. 16, May, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html)

Yet in spite of the widespread belief in nuclear extinction, there was almost no scientific support for such a possibility. The scenario of the book and movie On the Beach,[2] with fallout clouds gradually enveloping the earth and wiping out all life, was and is fiction. The scientific evidence is that fallout would only kill people who are immediately downwind of surface nuclear explosions and who are heavily exposed during the first few days. Global fallout has no potential for causing massive immediate death (though it could cause up to millions of cancers worldwide over many decades).[3] In spite of the lack of evidence, large sections of the peace movement have left unaddressed the question of whether nuclear war inevitably means global extinction.
The next effect to which beliefs in nuclear extinction were attached was ozone depletion. Beginning in the mid-1970s, scares about stratospheric ozone developed, culminating in 1982 in the release of Jonathan Schell's book The Fate of the Earth.[4] Schell painted a picture of human annihilation from nuclear war based almost entirely on effects from increased ultraviolet light at the earth's surface due to ozone reductions caused by nuclear explosions. Schell's book was greeted with adulation rarely observed in any field. Yet by the time the book was published, the scientific basis for ozone-based nuclear extinction had almost entirely evaporated. The ongoing switch by the military forces of the United States and the Soviet Union from multi-megatonne nuclear weapons to larger numbers of smaller weapons means that the effect on ozone from even the largest nuclear war is unlikely to lead to any major effect on human population levels, and extinction from ozone reductions is virtually out of the question.[3] The latest stimulus for doomsday beliefs is 'nuclear winter': the blocking of sunlight from dust raised by nuclear explosions and smoke from fires ignited by nuclear attacks. This would result in a few months of darkness and lowered temperatures, mainly in the northern mid-latitudes.[5] The effects could be quite significant, perhaps causing the deaths of up to several hundred million more people than would die from the immediate effects of blast, heat and radiation. But the evidence, so far, seems to provide little basis for beliefs in nuclear extinction. The impact of nuclear winter on populations nearer the equator, such as in India, does not seem likely to be significant. The most serious possibilities would result from major ecological destruction, but this remains speculative at present.

**War is less valuable – only limited wars in the future**
**Mueller 6** (John, Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Policy and Professor of Political Science, Ohio State University, “This just in: War has almost ceased to exist,” March 24, http://polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/THISINDC.PDF)

War has greatly diminished over the course of the 1990s and particularly so during the last few years, a remarkable development that has attracted scarcely any notice. Within a very few years there may be no war at all anywhere in the world, quite possibly for the first time in the history of the human race. War is most commonly defined in the social science literature as an armed conflict between governments (in the case of international wars), or between a government and an at least somewhat organized domestic armed group (for civil wars), in which at least 1000 people are killed, or killed yearly, as a direct or fairly direct consequence of the fighting. Using that definition, there are probably only two wars left in the world--the one garnering all the headlines in Iraq and a civil war in Sudan. There are a number of intermittent armed conflicts that could potentially rise above the violence threshold--in Nepal, Israel, Chechnya, Sri Lanka, Colombia, Kashmir, or Nigeria, for example--though most of these seem to be declining in violence. And, of course, new wars could emerge in other countries. In addition, one could apply other, more modest, definitions of war that would push the number above two. But, however defined, war has become a remarkably rare phenomenon. To begin with, certain standard, indeed classic, varieties of war--particularly major war, or wars among developed countries--have become so rare and unlikely that they could well be considered to be obsolescent, if not obsolete. Also, in notable decline, it appears, are international war more generally, conventional civil war, colonial war, and ideological civil war. In understanding this remarkable phenomenon I suggest that sometime in the middle of the last millennium disciplined military and police forces triumphed over essentially criminal ones in Europe and, in the process, gradually brought civil order and the state system to that continent. In result war, previously an almost continuous fact of life there, came under more coherent political control. Then, when people and politicians in the developed world became disillusioned with war--something that happened at the time of the First World War--they increasingly used their control over war to keep it from happening at all, at least in their relations with each other. In this view, the Second World War in Europe becomes a spectacular anachronism, fabricated almost single handedly by history's supreme atavism, Adolf Hitler. Then, over the course of the last half-century, the developed world's war-aversion seems to have become increasingly adopted elsewhere with the result that several other kinds of warfare are becoming increasingly rare as well. Thus, the decline of war, it seems to me, chiefly stems from the way attitudes toward the value and efficacy of war have changed, particularly over the last century, and the key lies in the machinations of idea entrepreneurs, not in wider-ranging social, economic, or technological developments or in the fabrication of institutions, trade, or patterns of interdependence--which often seem to be more nearly a consequence of peace and of rising war aversion than their cause. War, in this view, is merely an idea, an institution, like dueling or slavery that has been grafted onto human existence. It is not a trick of fate, a thunderbolt from hell, a natural calamity, or a desperate plot contrivance dreamed up by some sadistic puppeteer on high. And it seems to me that the institution is in pronounced decline as attitudes toward it have changed, roughly following the pattern by which the ancient and formidable institution of slavery became discredited and then obsolete. With only a few exceptions, there have been two kinds of war since the end of the Cold War. By far the most common have been civil wars, most of them taking place in the poorest countries of the world. Many of these have been labeled "new war," "ethnic conflict," or, most grandly, "clashes of civilizations." But, in fact, most, though not all, are more nearly opportunistic predation waged by packs- -often remarkably small ones--of criminals, bandits, and thugs. They engage in armed conflict either as mercenaries under hire to desperate governments or as independent or semi-independent warlord or brigand bands. To a substantial and perhaps increasing degree, then, warfare has been reduced to its remnants--or dregs--and thugs are the residual combatants. Over the last years, many of these wars--or competitive criminal enterprises--have exhausted themselves, and new ones have failed to arise to take their place. This is not because ethnic, nationalist, civilizational, or religious tensions have diminished--these remain quite pronounced in many areas. Rather the key seems to have been in the rise of competent governments which have increasingly been able to police domestic conflicts rather than exacerbating them as frequently happened in the past. That is, governmental effectiveness, not ethnic tension or other more cosmic concerns, is the key to the existence of much contemporary civil warfare. It follows that the fabrication of capable government is ultimately the most promising method for the long term control, and even potentially for the eradication, of most of the remnants of war. There is some suggestive, but by no means conclusive, evidence that governments are becoming generally more effective even in the poorest areas of the world, and thus that criminal warfare (and criminal regimes) may, like international warfare, be in terminal decline. The other remaining type of war in the post-Cold War era, far less common, includes what might be called "policing wars." These comprise militarized efforts by developed countries to bring order to the civil conflicts or to topple the thuggish regimes that are, after the apparent demise of international war, the chief remaining sources of deadly human destruction in the world. Experience during the post-Cold War period suggests that this is not usually a terribly formidable task: since thugs tend to be opportunistic and cowardly, they can generally be defeated by an organized, disciplined, and sizeable army. However, developed countries, despite their general consensus on how the post-Cold War world should be ordered, are unlikely systematically to carry out such actions for several reasons. These include a severe aversion to casualties, a fundamental lack of interest, an aversion to long-term policing, the lack of political gain from success, a deeply-held bias against war and aggression, and the misguided, but convenient, assumption that civil conflicts stem from immutable and inexplicable ethnic hatreds that cannot be remedied by well-intentioned outsiders. The record of these ventures has been mixed, but the messy results of the most notable and recent of these--America's war (or debacle) in Iraq--suggest that they are unlikely to become common. The demise of war hardly means, of course, that everything is perfect. Crime and criminal predation will still exist, and so will terrorism which, like crime, can be carried out by individuals or very small groups. And there will certainly be plenty of other problems to worry about--famine, disease, malnutrition, pollution, corruption, poverty, politics, and economic travail. However, a continuing decline in what remains of war, while far from certain, does seem to be an entirely reasonable prospect. If the process continues, war will recede from the human experience.

====St. Mark's==== 

Same as Wake but we added Morello at the top of the monitoring contention and switched the terminal disease impact to Yu- both are below

**Earth Observation systems inefficient now- status quo initiatives fail**
**Morello '11** Lauren is a scientific reporter at Climate Wire (Scientific American, "Budget Cuts Open Earth Observation Gap", April 14, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=budget-cuts-earth-observation-gap&print=true)
The fiscal 2011 budget compromise crafted by the White House and congressional leaders would delay a key federal climate and weather satellite program, making a lengthy gap in critical environmental data a near certainty. Cuts contained in the 2011 budget plan would push back the launch of the first Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS) orbiter by at least 18 months past the current 2016 target, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration chief Jane Lubchenco said yesterday. That would halt the flow of crucial weather and climate data -- handicapping environmental forecasts, severe storm warnings and search-and-rescue operations, Lubchenco warned a Senate Commerce subcommittee. "It's safe to say there will almost certainly be a gap in coverage that, at this point, looks like it may be at least 18 months, based on the fact that the launch date will now slip at least 18 months," she said. That projected gap has grown by at least four months since early February. NOAA officials said then that they expected a 12- to 14-month delay (ClimateWire, Feb. 15). The problem stems from the series of stopgap funding measures that have kept the federal government operating since October. That hand-to-mouth existence has taken its toll on JPSS, Lubchenco said, since those temporary spending bills did not include the full $910 million that President Obama sought for the satellite program in 2011. "There is great uncertainty now with respect to what the fiscal future of this program is," she said. "We're still in the process of doing planning to try to figure out how we can minimize the damage." Funding 'tight into the future' The proposed 2011 budget compromise, which would fund the government through the end of September, would worsen that problem. It chops NOAA's budget to $4.6 billion, $140 million below the level enacted in fiscal 2010. The agency had sought $5.5 billion this year. Although Congress has yet to vote on the new plan, Mark Begich (D-Alaska), chairman of the Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard, said there was little chance NOAA would receive full funding for the satellite program this year -- or next. "Funding will remain tight into the future," said Begich, one of a group of Senate Democrats who participated in an unsuccessful last-ditch effort last week to secure a budget boost for JPSS. "You can pretty much assume it's not coming in for 2011. We're moving to the next stage." Lubchenco said her agency believes it has few options for averting a gap in the climate and weather data that JPSS satellites are designed to gather. The current polar-orbiting satellite now in space is slated to be replaced in September by a satellite known as the "NPOESS Preparatory Project," or NPP. Cancel contracts now, pay more later Because NPP was designed as an experimental satellite, its planned lifetime is short -- just five years. The current budget difficulties mean that NPP's replacement, known as JPSS-1, won't be ready to fly in late 2016. "There is no other polar-orbiting satellite that will be flying in the orbit that JPSS[-1] was intended to fly in, and so that's why there will be a data gap," Lubchenco told lawmakers yesterday. "There isn't redundancy." Congress's budget cuts will also have long-term financial consequences for the satellite program. "For every dollar we didn't spend this year on JPSS, we will need to spend $3 to $5 down the road," Lubchenco said. "We have to cancel the contracts we have, to let people go. These are very skilled workers, and then you'd have to bring them back." JPSS's current budget woes are the latest in a string of problems that have bedeviled the satellite program and its predecessor, the National Polar-Orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS). The program was designed in the 1990s by the Defense Department, NOAA and NASA to replace separate military and civilian weather satellite efforts. Its estimated price tag more than doubled -- from $6.5 billion to $13.9 billion -- and its satellites were delayed by years before the Obama administration decided in 2010 to split the effort into separate Air Force and NOAA programs. "A lot of people see those satellites and think, 'Why is that useful to me? Why do I need weather satellites when I have the Weather Channel?'" Lubchenco said yesterday. "But the reality is, that's where we get 98 percent of the information that goes into weather forecasts and disaster warnings -- plus they give us information that enables maritime commerce to happen and helps with search and rescue."

**Unchecked disease spread will cause extinction**
**Yu ‘09** (Victoria, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, May 22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)
RIP Homo sapiens A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).

====Glenbrooks Prelims==== 
Same as St. Marks minus coral reefs
plus inherency

**new spending bill for the JPSS approved**
**Malakoff 11/15** David is an environmental staff writer for Science Magazine(Science Magazine, "NOAA Environmental Satellites Win Funding", November 15, 2011, http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/11/noaa-environmental-satellites.html)
Congress has apparently decided to allow the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to move ahead with a troubled new Earth-observing satellite system, but at the cost of cuts to some of NOAA's nonsatellite programs. The news comes in a House of Representatives-Senate conference report released last night on a spending bill affecting several federal agencies that is expected to pass Congress by the end of the week. Overall, the bill provides $4.9 billion for the agency, a 7% boost over current spending, but 11% less than what the Obama Administration had requested. Essentially, all of the $306 million increase would go to the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), a two-satellite system scheduled to have its first launch in 2016. In total, JPSS would get $924 million to keep it moving—a bit less than the $1 billion the agency had said it needed to keep it on schedule and avoid gaps in data collection. Although details were not available, it appears the agency will also have to cut some nonsatellite programs—including its ocean and fisheries research efforts—in order to pay for the satellites. The conference agreement also rejects the Administration's request to spend $322 million on a new Climate Service. The service would have consolidated a number of climate-related programs within NOAA into a new, Weather Service-like office. House Republicans have strongly objected to the planned shift in contentious hearings featuring NOAA Administrator Jane Lubchenco.

**JPSS can’t solve- data gaps and coverage problems**
**Walker 11/17** Molly Bernhart is a staff writer based in DC (**Citing DoC officials in the JPSS program, "NOAA looks internationally in preparation for weather satellite gaps", November 17, 2011, [[http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/noaa-looks-internationally-preparation-weather-satellite-gaps/2011-11-17]])
Fearing that budget cuts could compound weather satellite program woes, officials stressed the importance of continuous weather data during a Nov. 16 Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation subcommittee hearing. At the same time, officials told the subcommittee on oceans, atmosphere, fisheries and coast guard that money alone will not eliminate the potential for satellite coverage gaps, because underlying acquisition and management issues have plagued weather satellite programs for years now. The Joint Polar Satellite System, in particular, faces two challenges--one in the short term and one in the long term, said Commerce Department Inspector General Todd Zinser. A stopgap satellite launched in late October, the NPOESS Preparatory Project orbiter, will relieve the NOAA-19 satellite that is nearing the end of its lifespan. But there could still be a coverage gap of approximately 18 months, since NPP will be unable to accurately collect data until it has been in orbit for some time, said Zinser. Another, longer potential coverage gap is expected between the end of the design life of NPP and the operational date of JPSS-1, the first JPSS satellite, and could be as long as 21 months, Zinser said.

====Glenbrooks Octas==== 
**Contention one- Inherency**
**Climate satellites aren’t sufficient now – they’re necessary to measure climate variables**
**Lewis et al ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>
Until this year, America’s civil space policies—and the budgets that derive from it—were shaped to a considerable degree by the political imperatives of the past and by the romantic fiction of spaceflight. We believe there is a new imperative—climate change—that should take precedence in our national plans for space and that the goal for space spending in the next decade should be to create a robust and adequate Earth observation architecture. There is unequivocal evidence, despite careless mistakes and noisy protests, that Earth’s climate is warming. While the effects and implications of this are subject to speculation, there should be no doubt that the world faces a major challenge. There are important shortfalls in data and analysis needed to manage this challenge. Inadequate data mean that we cannot determine the scope or nature of change in some key areas, such as the melting of Antarctic sea ice. Long-term changes in daily temperature are not adequately understood, in part because of limited observations of atmospheric changes. Our understanding of how some anthropogenic (man-made) influences affect climate change is still incomplete. 1 These shortfalls must be remedied, if only to overcome skepticism and doubt. Climate change now occupies a central place on the global political agenda, and the United States should adjust its space policies to reflect this. Assessing and managing climate change will require taking what has largely been a scientific enterprise and “operationalizing” it. Operationalization means creating processes to provide the data and analysis that governments will need if they are to implement policies and regulations to soften the effects of climate change. Operationalization requires the right kind of data and adequate tools for collecting, analyzing, and disseminating that data in ways that inform decisionmaking at many levels of society. Satellites play a central role in assessing climate change because they can provide a consistent global view, important data, and an understanding of change in important but remote areas. Yet there are relatively few climate satellites—a total of 19, many of which are well past their expected service life. Accidents or failures would expose the fragility of the Earth observation system. 2 We lack the required sensors and instruments for the kinds of measurement that would make predictions more accurate and solutions more acceptable. Weather satellites, which take low-resolution pictures of clouds, forests, and ice caps, are not adequate to the task. NASA builds impressive Earth observation satellites for climate change, but these have been experimental rather than ongoing programs. Climate change poses a dilemma for space policy. The programs needed to manage climate change have been woefully underfunded for decades. The normal practice is to call uncritically for more money for civil space and its three components—planetary exploration, Earth observation, and manned spaceflight. In fact, civil space has been lavishly funded. Since 1989, NASA has received $385 billion, with $189 billion in the last decade. 3 This is more than the space budgets of most other nations combined. The problem is not a lack of money but how it has been spent. The bulk of this money went to NASA’s manned space program. This is a legacy of the Cold War. Manned spaceflight showed that market democracies could surpass scientific socialism. The point has been made. Spaceflight provides prestige, but a long series of miscalculations have left the United States with a fragile and fabulously expensive space transportation system. It will take years to recover, and some goals, such as a voyage to Mars, are simply unachievable absent major breakthroughs in physics and other sciences. If we accept that climate change poses serious risks to regional stability, national security, and economic health, the United States needs to reconsider its funding priorities for civil space. Earth observation is crucial for national security and the economy; manned spaceflight programs provide prestige. The United States must make climate-monitoring satellites its priority for funding if it is serious about managing climate change. In practical terms, this means a reduction in the spending on human spaceflight in order to fund a sustained program of satellite-building to create a robust climate monitoring space system.This is, of course, not an all-or-nothing issue. The United States can fund a range of space programs, manned and unmanned, for exploration and for Earth sciences. It is a question of priorities. Our recommendation is that the funding given to Earth observation should increase, as it is more important now for the national interest to monitor and manage climate change, even if that means a slower pace for other programs, such as manned spaceflight, until a robust Earth observation system has been put in orbit. Having the right data is only part of the challenge. The usefulness of that data depends on the strength of climate models and computing capabilities and our ability to make this information available to decisionmakers and user communities in a useful form. In the United States, these functions could be provided by a strengthened and reorganized interagency climate information structure bolstered by the creation of a National Climate Service, which could aggregate and analyze climate data in ways tailored to support management, policymaking, and the information needs of a broad-based user community.There is also an opportunity for the United States to lead an international effort that takes the many existing collaboration structures—such as the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS)—and operationalizes them. The Global Framework for Climate Services being advocated by the World Meteorological Organization could provide the platform to make climate data more accessible to policymakers. The United States is the nation that is most active in space and the nation with the greatest need to demonstrate responsible leadership. A willingness to cooperate and share will help build America’s global influence. Operationalizing science to manage climate change, building the capacity to acquire the needed information and share it with a wide range of users, and bolstering these capabilities at the international level as a part of a productive engagement strategy in what has so far been a contentious road to international agreement should all be goals for the United States both to address climate change, contribute to solving a global problem, and rebuild U.S. leadership.

**Congress just approved contentious spending for the JPSS**
**Malakoff 11/15** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David is an evironmental staff writer for Science Magazine(Science Magazine, "NOAA Environmental Satellites Win Funding", November 15, 2011, http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/11/noaa-environmental-satellites.html)</span>
Congress has apparently decided to allow the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to move ahead with a troubled new Earth-observing satellite system, but at the cost of cuts to some of NOAA's nonsatellite programs. The news comes in a House of Representatives-Senate conference report released last night on a spending bill affecting several federal agencies that is expected to pass Congress by the end of the week. Overall, the bill provides $4.9 billion for the agency, a 7% boost over current spending, but 11% less than what the Obama Administration had requested. Essentially, all of the $306 million increase would go to the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), a two-satellite system scheduled to have its first launch in 2016. In total, JPSS would get $924 million to keep it moving—a bit less than the $1 billion the agency had said it needed to keep it on schedule and avoid gaps in data collection. Although details were not available, it appears the agency will also have to cut some nonsatellite programs—including its ocean and fisheries research efforts—in order to pay for the satellites. The conference agreement also rejects the Administration's request to spend $322 million on a new Climate Service. The service would have consolidated a number of climate-related programs within NOAA into a new, Weather Service-like office. House Republicans have strongly objected to the planned shift in contentious hearings featuring NOAA Administrator Jane Lubchenco.

**But it can’t solve our aff – data and coverage gaps**
**Walker 11/17** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Molly Bernhart is a staff writer based in DC (**Citing DoC officials in the JPSS program, "NOAA looks internationally in preparation for weather satellite gaps", November 17, 2011, [[http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/noaa-looks-internationally-preparation-weather-satellite-gaps/2011-11-17]])** </span>
**Fearing that budget cuts could compound weather satellite program woes, officials stressed the importance of continuous weather data during a Nov. 16 Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation subcommittee hearing. At the same time, officials told the subcommittee on oceans, atmosphere, fisheries and coast guard that money alone will not eliminate the potential for satellite coverage gaps, because underlying acquisition and management issues have plagued weather satellite programs for years now. The Joint Polar Satellite System, in particular, faces two challenges--one in the short term and one in the long term, said Commerce Department Inspector General Todd Zinser. A stopgap satellite launched in late October, the NPOESS Preparatory Project orbiter, will relieve the NOAA-19 satellite that is nearing the end of its lifespan. But there could still be a coverage gap of approximately 18 months, since NPP will be unable to accurately collect data until it has been in orbit for some time, said Zinser. Another, longer potential coverage gap is expected between the end of the design life of NPP and the operational date of JPSS-1, the first JPSS satellite, and could be as long as 21 months, Zinser said.**

Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its Earth observation capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

Contention 2 is Leadership

Obama's over-focused on emissions cuts – leadership on adaptation specifically solves environmental leadership
Sundt '10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Communications Director for Climate Change at the World Wildlife Fund, staff associate at the U.S. Climate Change. Science Program Office, which is sponsored by 13 federal agencies (Nick, 10/11/10, "In Rolling Stone Interview, Obama Says "We're Going to Have to Mobilize" on Climate Change,” http://www.wwfblogs.org/climate/content/rolling-stone-interview-obama-climate-change-oct2010, RG)</span>**

**"[C]limate change has the potential to have devastating effects on people around the globe," President Obama says in the latest (15 October 2010) issue of Rolling Stone, "and we've got to do something about it. In order to do something about it, we're going to have to mobilize domestically, and we're going to have to mobilize internationally." The president emphasizes the importance of curbing greenhouse gas emissions, though says nothing about preparing for the impacts of climate change -- even though a group of experts in late September called for increased Presidential engagement on preparedness issues. In Obama in Command: The Rolling Stone Interview, Obama voiced disappointment that he has not accomplished more on climate change, but cited progress and said he was determined to move forward: "During the past two years, we've not made as much progress as I wanted to make when I was sworn into office. It is very hard to make progress on these issues in the midst of a huge economic crisis, because the natural inclination around the world is to say, `You know what? That may be a huge problem, but right now what's a really big problem is 10 percent unemployment,' or `What's a really big problem is that our businesses can't get loans.' That diverted attention from what I consider to be an urgent priority. The House of Representatives made an attempt to deal with the issue in a serious way. It wasn't perfect, but it was serious. We could not get 60 votes for a comparable approach in the Senate. One of my top priorities next year is to have an energy policy that begins to address all facets of our overreliance on fossil fuels. We may end up having to do it in chunks, as opposed to some sort of comprehensive omnibus legislation. But we're going to stay on this because it is good for our economy, it's good for our national security, and, ultimately, it's good for our environment. Understand, though, that even in the absence of legislation, we took steps over the past two years that have made a significant difference. I will give you one example, and this is an example where sometimes I think the progressive community just pockets whatever we do, takes it for granted, and then asks, "Well, why didn't you get this done?" We instituted the first increase in fuel-efficiency standards in this country in 30 years. It used to be that California would have some very rigorous rule, and then other states would have much weaker ones. Now we've got one rule. Not only that, it used to be that trucks weren't covered, and there were all kinds of loopholes — that's how SUVs were out there getting eight miles a gallon. Now everybody's regulated — not only cars, but trucks. We did this with the agreement of the auto industry, which had never agreed to it before, we did it with the auto workers, who had never agreed to it before. We are taking the equivalent of millions of cars off the road, when it comes to the amount of greenhouse gases that are produced. Is it enough? Absolutely not. The progress that we're making on renewable energy, the progress that we're making on retrofitting buildings and making sure that we are reducing electricity use — all those things, cumulatively, if we stay on it over the next several years, will allow us to meet the target that I set, which would be around a 17 percent reduction in our greenhouse gases. But we're going to have to do a lot more than that. ...When I ask [Energy Secretary Steven Chu]... how we are going to solve this problem internationally, what he'll tell you is that we can get about a third of this done through efficiencies and existing technologies, we can get an additional chunk through some sort of pricing in carbon, but ultimately we're going to need some technological breakthroughs. So the investments we're making in research and development around clean energy are also going to be important if we're going to be able to get all the way there. Am I satisfied with what we've gotten done? Absolutely not. When asked by Rolling Stone if he sees "a point at which you're going to throw the whole weight of the presidency behind this, like you did on health care or financial reform," President Obama replies: "Yes. Not only can I foresee it, but I am committed to making sure that we get an energy policy that makes sense for the country and that helps us grow at the same time as it deals with climate change in a serious way." He later adds: "Understandably, everybody has a great sense of urgency about these issues. But one of the things that I constantly want to counsel my friends is to keep the long view in mind...These things don't happen overnight. But we're moving in the right direction, and that's what people have to keep in mind." Climate Change Preparedness Missing from President's Remarks The President exclusively emphasized the need to curb greenhouse gas emissions (also known as climate change "mitigation"). Notably missing from the President's remarks was any mention of the need for climate change preparedness (often termed "adaptation") and steps the Administration is taking to address the impacts of climate change that already are being felt and that will become more disruptive in the future. Silence on that question was all the more conspicuous in light of recommendations submitted to the White House by the National Climate Adaptation Summit Committee on 13 September 2010. In a report [PDF] released publicly on 29 September 2010, the committee said "[t]he United States’ response to climate change must include adaptation as well as mitigation." Among the key issues and challenges listed by the committee was the need for Federal leadership -- starting at the top: "Increased Presidential engagement on climate adaptation issues would both elevate the importance of adaptation activities within the government and raise the profile of the adaptation challenge with the nation as a whole. Opportunities include being more vocal on the importance of this topic, the validity of the science, and the need to take reasonable actions." Earlier this year, on 30 April 2010, the Pew Center on Global Climate Change similarly highlighted the importance of leadership in mobilizing Americans and the government towards climate change preparedness. In its report, Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership [PDF], Pew listed five main components of such leadership, the first of which is the need for a "clear public commitment by a chief executive," adding that a "public commitment, perhaps in the form of a formal statement to explain the national strategy and program sends a clear signal that adaptation is important." The authors explained that "[o]nce a chief executive in government makes adaptation a clear priority, it increases attention and resources available to the issue and provides clear policy direction. In many cases, executive leadership is the only way to elevate adaptation as a government priority, but formal organization, funding, or legislative action may be necessary to maintain an adaptation program after the initial leadership push."**

Information capabilities are a necessary to revitalizes US climate leadership that leads to global cooperation
Lewis et al ’10 **[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]**
**Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable effects on economic and national security. Managing these consequences and mitigating them when possible are new and difficult tasks for governments. Progress in mitigating and adapting to climate change will require the world’s countries to agree to coordinate their actions. Reaching such agreement will be no easy task. That said, climate change offers a unique opportunity for the United States to engage other nations in pursuing common interests and addressing future challenges. Not only is the United States well positioned to lead on this issue because of its significant space and scientific capacity, it also faces global expectations that it should shoulder the leadership burden for climate change. A commitment to building the space and information infrastructure needed to manage climate change could demonstrate the U.S. leadership, based on competence and advancing the global good, that the world respects and admires. Operationalization is the next step for dealing with climate change—to make the data and knowledge generation by satellites and science easier to use in policymaking. Operationalization requires a new approach. Climate change has largely been an issue of science. The existing vehicles for international cooperation and data sharing are aimed at the scientific community. Effective global management of climate requires a new approach with three integrated elements—space, networks, and collaboration. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation policies, and guide planning on how to adapt to changes in the environment. Achieving such a concerted effort will require coordination must occur on several different levels if it is to have a meaningful effect. The first—the collection and measurement of relevant data—depends largely on satellites. Without the proper data, it would be very difficult to develop and aggregate a global picture of climate change and its nature and pace. It would be difficult to measure the effects of mitigation efforts, determine when or whether policies are effective, or predict when and how climate effects will affect local communities. The second level is to expand the analysis and sharing of information. In some ways, we are only in the early stages of developing a global enterprise for assessing climate change. Much of the research and analysis conducted thus far has been focused on understanding the nature and pace of climate change, forecasting future changes in Earth’s natural systems based on changes in different variables, and substantiating theories about how human efforts to reduce the effects of climate change might actually have some effect. More work is needed in each area to improve our understanding and update it as the natural environment continues to change. Finally, data must move from the scientific community to the policy community—to governments and policymakers—if data are to guide change. While the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tailored analysis to meet policymakers’ needs in the hopes of reaching a global consensus for action, the challenge today is to extend and strengthen connections between the science and policy communities. A coordinated multinational effort to better inform the policy process can change this. Our belief is that a concerted effort to analyze and share data from the many national efforts could significantly advance our understanding of the risks and causes of climate change, better measure the effects of mitigation, and guide planning on adapting to changes in the environment. To this end, our recommendations follow: The U.S. approach to climate change policy needs to inform decisionmakers and planners in both government and the private sector by providing understandable metrics and analyses of the effectiveness of, and compliance with, mitigation programs and adaption plans. The customers for this should include federal agencies, state and local governments, private sector users, and other nations. To better serve the national interest, the United States should increase its Earth observation capabilities—especially space-based sensors for carbon monitoring—to improve our ability to understand the carbon cycle and to inform any future international agreement. This means that until these capabilities are adequate for monitoring climate change, investment in Earth observation satellites should take precedence over other space programs. Increased spending on earth observation satellites specifically designed for climate change should be maintained until the current capability shortfall is eliminated.**

That’s the controlling internal link to extinction
Harris 1 **(Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)**

**In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust acceptance by the U.S. government of international equity as an objective of global environmental policy—and indeed of foreign policy generally—has potentially beneficial implications for humankind. Implementation of the equity provisions of international environmental arrangements may reduce human suffering by helping to prevent changes to local, regional, and global environmental commons that would adversely affect people, most notably the many poor people in the economically developing countries who are least able to cope with environmental changes. Insofar as environmental protection policies focus on sustainable economic development, human suffering may be mitigated as developing countries—especially the least-developed countries—are aided in meeting the basic needs of their citizens. Economic disparities within and between countries are growing. At least one-fifth of the world’s population already lives in the squalor of absolute poverty.59 This situation can be expected to worsen in the future. If this process can be mitigated or reversed by international policies focusing on environmentally sustainable economic development, human well-being on a global scale will rise. ‘What is more, international cooperative efforts to protect the environment that are made more likely and more effective by provisions for international equity will help governments protect their own environment and the global environment if they are successful. Insofar as the planet is one biosphere—that it is in the case of ozone depletion and climate change seems indisputable-persons in every local and national community are simultaneously members of an interdependent whole. Most activities, especially widespread activities in the United States and the rest of the industrialized world, including the release of ozone-destroying chemicals and greenhouse gases, are likely to adversely affect many or possibly all persons on the planet. Efforts to prevent such harm or make amends for historical harm (i.e., past pollution, which is especially important in these examples because many pollutants continue doing harm for years and often decades) require that most communities work together. Indeed, affluent lifestyles in the United States, ‘Western Europe, and other developed areas may harm people in poor areas of the world more than they will harm those enjoying such lifestyles because the poor are ill-equipped to deal with the consequences.6° Furthermore, by concerning themselves with the consequences of their actions on the global poor and polluted, Americans and the citizens of other developed countries will be helping their immediate neighbors—and themselves—in the long run. Actualization of international equity in conjunction with sustainable development may help prevent damage to the natural environment worldwide, thereby promoting human prosperity. The upshot is that the United States has not gone far enough in actively accepting equity as an objective of global environmental policy. It ought to go further in doing so for purely self-interested reasons. But there are more than self-interested reasons for the United States to move in this direction. It ought to embrace international equity as an objective of its global environmental policy for ethical reasons as well. We can find substantial ethical justification for the United States, in concert with other developed countries, to support politically and financially the codification and implementation of international equity considerations in international environmental agreements. The United States ought to be a leader in supporting a fair and just distribution among countries of the benefits, burdens, and decision-making authority associated with international environmental relations.61 To invoke themes found in the corpus of ethical philosophy (but without here assuming the burden of philosophical exegesis!), the United States ought to adopt policies that engender international equity in at least the environmental field (1) to protect the health and well-being of the human species; (2) to promote basic human rights universally; (3) to help the poor be their own moral agents (a Kantian rationale); (4) to help right past wrongs and to take responsibility for past injustices (i.e., past and indeed ongoing U.S. pollution of the global environment); (5) to aid the world’s least-advantaged people and countries (a Rawlsian-like conception); (6) and to fhlflll the requirement of impartiality (among other ethical reasons)62—all in addition to the more dearly self-interested justification that doing so will bolster U.S. credibility and influence in international environmental negotiations and contemporary global politics more generally. One might argue, therefore, that the United States ought to be aiding the developing countries to achieve sustainable development because to do so may simultaneously reduce human suffering and reduce or potentially reverse environmental destruction that could otherwise threaten the healthy survival of the human species. Insofar as human-caused pollution and resource exploitation deny individuals and their communities the capacity to survive in a healthy condition, the United States, which consumes vastly more than necessary, has an obligation to stop that unnecessary consumption. From this basic rights perspective,63 the U.S. government should also take steps to reduce substantially the emissions of pollutants from within the United States that harm people in other countries.64 The United States ought to refrain from unsustainable use of natural resources and from pollution of environmental commons shared by people living in other countries—or at least make a good effort toward that end—because the people affected by these activities cannot reasonably be expected to support them (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).**

Scenario 1 is China
Pollution and environmental degradation in China are worsening – only U.S. environmental leadership can mobilize international assistance to reduce Chinese pollution,

Nankivell ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nathan is a Senior Researcher at the Office of the Special Advisor Policy, Canadien Department of National Defence. (Asia-Pacific Journal, “China's Pollution and the Threat to Domestic and Regional Stability”, 3/21/2009. [[http://japanfocus.org/-Nathan-Nankivell/1799]])</span>**




**Already, throughout Asia and beyond, China's contribution to transborder air and water pollution provokes significant concern. Russia's harsh criticism of China's handling of the recent transborder water pollution disaster that poisoned the water for the twelve million residents of Harbin and many others suggests the potential for international conflict. Globally, China is one of the world's leading contributors to climate change, ozone depletion, and biodiversity loss, and it is now in the early stages of following the United States and other rich nations in a race toward mass automobile ownership whose implications for air pollution and global warning are profound. Can China change its environmental trajectory? There are some positive signs. While quadrupling its GDP between 1980 and 2000, China's energy increased only twofold, suggesting a recognition of improved efficiency. And the Chinese state monitors pollution at 300,000 factories. Formally registered environmental non-governmental organizations now total more than 2000 in China, and environmental activists, with the help of the Chinese total more than 2000 in China, and environmental activists, with the help of the Chinese media and some outspoken Chinese officials, are pressing for environmental impact assessments to be openly conducted, bringing lawsuits against polluting factories, and even attempting to halt mega-dam construction. In some wealthier Chinese cities, such as Dalian and Shanghai, proactive leaders have increased the share of local funds devoted to environmental protection. Nankivell calls for greater assistance by the international community. In fact, international environmental NGOs, foreign governments and international governmental organizations such as the World Bank are all deeply engaged in contributing to China's environmental protection effort. Indeed, by one account, international NGOs now account for as much as three fourths of funding for environmental protection in China. It is nevertheless difficult to escape the impression that, thus far, the combined efforts amount to chasing a problem that is growing by leaps and bounds, and that efforts to reverse the juggernaut appear rather like the application of band aids over gaping wounds. In the end, the possibilities for slowing and eventually reversing environmental disasters will have to come through the concerted efforts of the international community in combination with the agency of vigorous and informed states. In China, as in the United States, Japan and elsewhere, the priorities of the state will be crucial. But they will also reflect the pressures from the citizenry under circumstances in which the gods of accelerated development and global definitions of modernity (the private automobile most importantly) exercise powerful sway. Critical gaps in China's domestic policy milieu will have to be reversed, and fundamental decisions about national priorities will have to be reconceived, if that nation is to avoid the crippling consequences of environmental pollution and contributing massively to global warming. Chief among these are corruption, low levels of investment in environmental protection, a lack of incentives to do the right thing, still nascent practice of the rule of law, a primacy on economic development, and poor transparency. The issues, however, are hardly the responsibility of China alone as the United States' rejection of the Kyoto environmental accords makes plain. Indeed, while the United States is both the largest source of global warming and the major obstacle to an environmentally responsible international policy, China has emerged as an important ally in efforts to prevent the realization of meaningful global standards to restrict greenhouse gases and address other global environmental problems. If not addressed, environmental challenges will drag China -- and the rest of the world along with it -- deeper into an environmental crisis and further along the path of Nankivell's dark scenarios. -- Japan Focus] <span style="background-color: white;">China's environment is edging closer to a condition of crisis with each passing day. Pollution and environmental degradation have already left scars and will continue to create problems as the situation worsens. While it may be possible for China to mitigate the impact of environmental damage through coordinated policies, effective spending, and sound future planning, Beijing is unable or unwilling to prescribe such measures. As an undeniable fact on the ground, it is imperative for prudent policymakers to consider the geostrategic implications of not just a superpower, but of an environmentally-ravaged China as well. There is little disagreement that China's environment is a mounting problem for Beijing. The country produces as many sulphur emissions as Tokyo and Los Angeles combined but with only a fraction of the vehicles; China is home to 16 of the world's 20 most polluted cities; water pollution affects as much as 70 percent of the country; air pollution is blamed for the premature death of some 400,000 Chinese annually; crop returns are steadily decreasing in quantity and quality because of polluted land and water; and solid waste production is expected to more than double over the next decade, pushing China far ahead of the U.S. as the largest producer (The Economist, August 19, 2004). While the general accessibility of this information is creating greater awareness, trends indicate that pollution and environmental degradation will worsen. Chinese consumers are expected to purchase hundreds of millions of automobiles, adding to air pollution problems. Despite pledges to put the environment first, national planners still aim to double per capita GDP by 2010 (China Daily, environment first, national planners still aim to double per capita GDP by 2010 (China Daily, October 20, 2005). Urban populations are expected to continue expanding, leading to the creation of slums and stressing urban sanitation and delivery systems. Steadily richer Chinese will be able to purchase more goods and consume more resources. The nation lacks a powerful national body able to coordinate, monitor, and enforce environmental legislation: the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) is under-staffed, has few resources, and must compete with other bureaucracies for attention. The devolution of decision-making to local levels has placed environmental stewardship in the hands of officials who are more concerned with economic growth than the environment. Finally, the deficiency of capital and the lack of will to promote massive spending on environmental repair necessary to reverse more than two decades of destruction are perhaps most indicative of the fact that environmental restoration will not occur: estimates on the final cost of environmental repair range into the tens of billions of dollars (Canadian Security Intelligence Services Division; The Economist, October 20, 2005). From the examples above, it is clear that China's environmental crisis will only worsen before it gets better. SEPA's impotence, Beijing's contradictory policy statements, expanding consumption, and a lack of funds to reverse already serious problems all suggest that pollution and degradation will most likely worsen in the decades to come. Pollution, Unrest, and Social Mobilization </span>**

Chinese pollution causes nuclear conflict with Russia.

Nankivell ‘9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nathan is a Senior Researcher at the Office of the Special Advisor Policy, Canadien Department of National Defence. (Asia-Pacific Journal, “China's Pollution and the Threat to Domestic and Regional Stability”, 3/21/2009. [[http://japanfocus.org/-Nathan-Nankivell/1799]])</span>**

**In addition to the concerns already mentioned, pollution, if linked to a specific issue like water shortage, could have important geopolitical ramifications. China's northern plains, home to hundreds of millions, face acute water shortages. Growing demand, a decade of drought, inefficient delivery methods, and increasing water pollution have reduced per capita water holdings to critical levels. Although Beijing hopes to relieve some of the pressures via the North-South Water Diversion project, it requires tens of billions of dollars and its completion is, at best, still several years away and, at worst, impossible. Yet just to the north lies one of the most under-populated areas in Asia, the Russian Far East. While there is little agreement among scholars about whether resource shortages lead to greater cooperation or conflict, either scenario encompasses security considerations. Russian politicians already allege possible Chinese territorial designs on the region. They note Russia's falling population in the Far East, currently estimated at some 6 to 7 million, and argue that the growing Chinese population along the border, more than 80 million, may soon take over. While these concerns smack of inflated nationalism and scare tactics, there could be some truth to them. The method by which China might annex the territory can only be speculated upon, but would surely result in full-scale war between two powerful, nuclear-equipped nations. While a significant concern, the larger and more realistic implication for Western security analysts must be greater cooperation and a possible alliance with Moscow. It should be assumed that China will court Russia or even pursue an alliance with its northern neighbor to gain access to water, oil, will court Russia or even pursue an alliance with its northern neighbor to gain access to water, oil, and other natural resources. Indicative of growing strategic cooperation include a number of recent developments between the two countries, including a joint military exercise and continued investment and work on an oil pipeline. Such warming ties between Moscow and Beijing could threaten Western interests in the region and beyond.**

Chinese and Russia conflict over resources escalates to nuclear conflict.

Sharavin ‘1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Director @ Institute of Military and Political Analysis</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Alexander, Director of the Institute of Military and Political Analysis, 10-3-1, What The Papers Say (Russia), Wednesday, l/n</span>**




**Now, a few words about the third type of war. A real military threat to Russia from China has not merely been ignored; it has been denied by Russia's leaders and nearly all of the political forces. Let's see some statistic figures at first. The territory of Siberia and the Russian Far East comprises 12,765,900 square kilometers (75% of Russia's entire area), with a population of 40,553,900 people (28% of Russia's population). The territory of China is 9,597,000 square kilometers and its population is 1.265 billion (which is 29 times greater than the population of Siberia and the Russian Far East). China's economy is among the fastest-growing economies in the world. It remains socialistic in many aspects, i.e. extensive and highly expensive, demanding more and more natural resources. China's natural resources are rather limited, whereas the depths of Siberia and the Russian Far East are almost inexhaustible. Chinese propaganda has constantly been showing us skyscrapers in free trade zones in southeastern China. It should not be forgotten, however, that some 250 to 300 million people live there, i.e. at most a quarter of China's population. A billion Chinese people are still living in misery. For them, even the living standards of a backwater Russian town remain inaccessibly high. They have absolutely nothing to lose. There is every prerequisite for "the final throw to the north." The strength of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (CPLA) has been growing quicker than the Chinese economy. A decade ago the CPLA was equipped with inferior copies of Russian arms from late 1950s to the early 1960s. However, through its own efforts Russia has nearly managed to liquidate its most significant technological advantage. Thanks to our zeal, from antique MiG-21 fighters of the earliest modifications and S-75 air defense missile systems the Chinese antiaircraft defense forces have adopted Su-27 fighters and S-300 air defense missile systems. China's air defense forces have received Tor systems instead of anti-aircraft guns which could have been used during World War II. The shock air force of our "eastern brethren" will in the near future replace antique Tu-16 and Il-28 airplanes with Su-30 fighters, which are not yet available to the Russian Armed Forces! Russia may face the "wonderful" prospect of combating the Chinese army, which, if full mobilization is called, is comparable in size with Russia's entire population, which also has nuclear weapons (even tactical weapons become strategic if states have common borders) and would be absolutely insensitive to losses (even a loss of a few million of the servicemen would be acceptable for China). Such a war would be more horrible than the World War II. It would require from our state maximal tension, universal mobilization and complete accumulation of the army military hardware, up to the last tank or a plane, in a single direction (we would have to forget such "trifles" like Talebs and Basaev, but this does not guarantee success either). Massive nuclear strikes on basic military forces and cities of China would finally be the only way out, what would exhaust Russia's armament completely. We have not got another set of intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine-based missiles, whereas the general forces would be extremely exhausted in the border combats. In the long run, even if the aggression would be stopped after the majority of the Chinese are killed, our country would be absolutely unprotected against the "Chechen" and the "Balkan" variants both, and even against the first frost of a possible nuclear winter.**

Scenario 2 is Bio-diversity
Only the US can solve global bio-diversity loss
Ivanova and Esty ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy at The College of William and Mary and the Director of the Global Environmental Governance Project at the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy, and </span>**Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy at Yale University (2008. “ Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance ” Vol 28 No. 2. http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)
In this article, we address these core questions. We argue that the next President of the United States must re-engage with other nations. Success in protecting the planet from climate change cannot be achieved by the United States acting on its own. International cooperation is essential. Similar collaborative efforts at the global scale will be required to protect the planet’s biological diversity, restore the vibrancy of the world’s fisheries, prevent the spread of persistent organic pollutants, conserve forests, and other issues that are inescapably trans-boundary in nature. We contend, moreover, that not only is U.S. participation critical, but U.S. leadership is crucial and necessary to achieve successful environmental outcomes. The U.S. environmental footprint is larger than any other country’s. The United States consumes a disproportionate share of the world’s energy and natural resources. With less than 5 percent of the world population, the United States uses 25 percent of the world’s fossil fuel resources—accounting for nearly 25 percent of the world’s annual coal burning, 26 percent of the world’s oil, and 27 percent of the world’s natural gas. 3 It also accounts for 18.5 percent of the consumption of global forestry products and 13.7 percent of the world’s water usage. The United States is in a unique position. Given its economic and strategic power as well as its financial and technological prowess, U.S. leadership could influence international environmental policy and promote effective environmental governance. Conversely, the record of the past fifteen years has demonstrated that “when the United States declines to exercise leadership, the impact is significant.” 4 Little progress is made without the United States. Reasserting global environmental leadership, however, will not be easy for the next U.S. president. There are considerable domesticeiwei challenges 60 SAIS Review SUm m eR–Fa l l 2008 as the U.S. public remains deeply ambivalent about international entanglements and international organizations—even those related to protecting the planet

**Current biodiversity loss risks extinction**
<span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C0yne</span>**</span> **and Hoekstra ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Professor of Ecology and Evolution @ University of Chicago, PhD in Biology @ Harvard, written 6 peer-reviewed scientific publications AND **Professor of Molecular, Cellular, Organismic and Evolutionary Biology @ Harvard, Honorary Senior Lecturer, Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment @ UC London, 2011 Distinguished Lecturer, Genetics & Biochemistry Graduate Student Association @ Clemson, PhD in Zoology @ University of Washington (Jerry & Hopi, 9/24/07, “The Greatest Dying,” [[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying]])**</span>

**We are relentlessly taking over the planet, laying it to waste and eliminating most of our fellow species. Moreover, <span class="Heading2Char">we're doing it much faster than the mass extinctions that came before.</span> Every year, up to 30,000 species disappear due to human activity alone. At this rate, <span class="Heading2Char">we could lose half of Earth's species in this century</span>. And, <span class="Heading2Char">unlike with previous extinctions, there's no hope that biodiversity will ever recover</span>, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">since the cause of the decimation - us - is here to stay. To scientists, this is an unparalleled calamity, far more severe than global warming, which is, after all, only one of many threats to biodiversity. Yet global warming gets far more press. Why? One reason is that, while the increase in temperature is easy to document, the decrease of species is not. Biologists don't know, for example, exactly how many species exist on Earth. Estimates range widely, from three million to more than 50 million, and that doesn't count microbes, critical (albeit invisible) components of ecosystems. We're not certain about the rate of extinction, either; how could we be, since the vast majority of species have yet to be described? We're even less sure how the loss of some species will affect the ecosystems in which they're embedded, since the intricate connection between organisms means that the loss of a single species can ramify unpredictably. But we do know some things. Tropical rainforests are disappearing at a rate of 2 percent per year. Populations of most large fish are down to only 10 percent of what they were in 1950. Many primates and all the great apes - our closest relatives - are nearly gone from the wild. And we know that extinction and global warming act synergistically. Extinction exacerbates global warming: By burning rainforests, we're not only polluting the atmosphere with carbon dioxide (a major greenhouse gas) but destroying the very plants that can remove this gas from the air. Conversely, global warming increases extinction, both directly (killing corals) and indirectly (destroying the habitats of Arctic and Antarctic animals). As extinction increases, then, so does global warming, which in turn causes more extinction - and so on, into a downward spiral of destruction. Why, exactly, should we care? Let's start with the most celebrated case: the rainforests. Their loss will worsen global warming - raising temperatures, melting icecaps, and flooding coastal cities. And, as the forest habitat shrinks, so begins the inevitable contact between organisms that have not evolved together, a scenario played out many times, and one that is never good. Dreadful diseases have successfully jumped species boundaries, with humans as prime recipients. We have gotten aids from apes, sars from civets, and Ebola from fruit bats. Additional worldwide plagues from unknown microbes are a very real possibility. But it isn't just the destruction of the rainforests that should trouble us.</span> <span class="Heading2Char">Healthy ecosystems the world over provide hidden services like waste disposal, nutrient cycling, soil formation, water purification, and oxygen production</span>. Such services are best rendered by ecosystems that are diverse. Yet, through both intention and accident, humans have introduced exotic species that turn biodiversity into monoculture. Fast-growing zebra mussels, for example, have outcompeted more than 15 species of native mussels in North America's Great Lakes and have damaged harbors and water-treatment plants. Native prairies are becoming dominated by single species (often genetically homogenous) of corn or wheat. Thanks to these developments, soils will erode and become unproductive - which, along with temperature change, will diminish agricultural yields. Meanwhile,with increased pollution and runoff, as well as reduced forest cover, ecosystems will no longer be able to purify water; and a shortage of clean water spells disaster. In many ways, oceans are the most vulnerable areas of all. As overfishing eliminates major predators, while polluted and warming waters kill off phytoplankton, the intricate aquatic food web could collapse from both sides. Fish, on which so many humans depend, will be a fond memory. As phytoplankton vanish, so does the ability of the oceans to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. (Half of the oxygen we breathe is made by phytoplankton, with the rest coming from land plants.) Species extinction is also imperiling coral reefs - a major problem since these reefs have far more than recreational value: They provide tremendous amounts of food for human populations and buffer coastlines against erosion. In fact, the global value of "hidden" services provided by ecosystems - those services, like waste disposal, that aren't bought and sold in the marketplace - has been estimated to be as much as $50 trillion per year, roughly equal to the gross domestic product of all countries combined. And that doesn't include tangible goods like fish and timber. <span class="Heading2Char">Life as we know it would be impossible if ecosystems collapsed.</span> Yet that is where we're heading if species extinction continues at its current pace. Extinction also has a huge impact on medicine. Who really cares if, say, a worm in the remote swamps of French Guiana goes extinct? Well, those who suffer from cardiovascular disease. The recent discovery of a rare South American leech has led to the isolation of a powerful enzyme that, unlike other anticoagulants, not only prevents blood from clotting but also dissolves existing clots. And it's not just this one species of worm: Its wriggly relatives have evolved other biomedically valuable proteins, including antistatin (a potential anticancer agent), decorsin and ornatin (platelet aggregation inhibitors), and hirudin (another anticoagulant). Plants, too, are pharmaceutical gold mines. The bark of trees, for example, has given us quinine (the first cure for malaria), taxol (a drug highly effective against ovarian and breast cancer), and aspirin. More than a quarter of the medicines on our pharmacy shelves were originally derived from plants. The sap of the Madagascar periwinkle contains more than 70 useful alkaloids, including vincristine, a powerful anticancer drug that saved the life of one of our friends. Of the roughly 250,000 plant species on Earth, fewer than 5 percent have been screened for pharmaceutical properties. Who knows what life-saving drugs remain to be discovered? Given current extinction rates, it's estimated that we're losing one valuable drug every two years. Our arguments so far have tacitly assumed that species are worth saving only in proportion to their economic value and their effects on our quality of life, an attitude that is strongly ingrained, especially in Americans. That is why conservationists always base their case on an economic calculus. But we biologists know in our hearts that there are deeper and equally compelling reasons to worry about the loss of biodiversity: namely, simple morality and intellectual values that transcend pecuniary interests. What, for example, gives us the right to destroy other creatures? And what could be more thrilling than looking around us, seeing that we are surrounded by our evolutionary cousins, and realizing that we all got here by the same simple process of natural selection? To biologists, and potentially everyone else, apprehending the genetic kinship and common origin of all species is a spiritual experience - not necessarily religious, but spiritual nonetheless, for it stirs the soul. But, whether or not one is moved by such concerns, <span class="Heading2Char">it is certain that our future is bleak if we do nothing to stem this sixth extinction. We are creating a world in which exotic diseases flourish but natural medicinal cures are lost; a world in which carbon waste accumulates while food sources dwindle; a world of sweltering heat, failing crops, and impure water.</span>** In the end, **<span class="Heading2Char">we must accept the possibility that we ourselves are not immune to extinction</span>**. Or, **<span class="Heading2Char">if we survive, perhaps only a few of us will remain, scratching out a grubby existence on a devastated planet</span>**. Global **<span class="Heading2Char">warming will seem like a secondary problem when humanity finally faces the consequences of what we have done to nature: not just another Great Dying, but</span>** perhaps **<span class="Heading2Char">the greatest dying of them all.</span>**

Contention 3 is Climate

Warming is inevitable for the next 1,000 years – even total emission elimination can’t check

Solomon et al ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) (Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences of the United States of America, "Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases", October 26, 2010 Vol 107.43: 18354-18359)</span>**
**Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the course of the 20th century due to human activities. The human-caused increases in these gases are the primary forcing that accounts for much of the global warming of the past fifty years, with carbon dioxide being the most important single radiative forcing agent (1). Recent studies have shown that the human-caused warming linked to carbon dioxide is nearly irreversible for more than 1,000 y, even if emissions of the gas were to cease entirely (2–5). The importance of the ocean in taking up heat and slowing the response of the climate system to radiative forcing changes has been noted in many studies (e.g., refs. 6 and 7). The key role of the ocean’s thermal lag has also been highlighted by recent approaches to proposed metrics for comparing the warming of different greenhouse gases (8, 9). Among the observations attesting to the importance of these effects are those showing that climate changes caused by transient volcanic aerosol loading persist for more than 5 y (7, 10), and a portion can be expected to last more than a century in the ocean (11–13); clearly these signals persist far longer than the radiative forcing decay timescale of about 12–18 mo for the volcanic aerosol (14, 15). Thus the observed climate response to volcanic events suggests that some persistence of climate change should be expected even for quite short-lived radiative forcing perturbations. It follows that the climate changes induced by short-lived anthropogenic greenhouse gases such as methane or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may not decrease in concert with decreases in concentration if the anthropogenic emissions of those gases were to be eliminated. In this paper, our primary goal is to show how different processes and timescales contribute to determining how long the climate changes due to various greenhouse gases could be expected to remain if anthropogenic emissions were to cease. Advances in modeling have led to improved AtmosphereOcean General Circulation Models (AOGCMs) as well as to Earth Models of Intermediate Complexity (EMICs). Although a detailed representation of the climate system changes on regional scales can only be provided by AOGCMs, the simpler EMICs have been shown to be useful, particularly to examine phenomena on a global average basis. In this work, we use the Bern 2.5CC EMIC (see Materials and Methods and SI Text), which has been extensively intercompared to other EMICs and to complex AOGCMs (3, 4). It should be noted that, although the Bern 2.5CC EMIC includes a representation of the surface and deep ocean, it does not include processes such as ice sheet losses or changes in the Earth’s albedo linked to evolution of vegetation. However, it is noteworthy that this EMIC, although parameterized and simplified, includes 14 levels in the ocean; further, its global ocean heat uptake and climate sensitivity are near the mean of available complex models, and its computed timescales for uptake of tracers into the ocean have been shown to compare well to observations (16). A recent study (17) explored the response of one AOGCM to a sudden stop of all forcing, and the Bern 2.5CC EMIC shows broad similarities in computed warming to that study (see Fig. S1), although there are also differences in detail. The climate sensitivity (which characterizes the long-term absolute warming response to a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations) is 3 °C for the model used here. Our results should be considered illustrative and exploratory rather than fully quantitative given the limitations of the EMIC and the uncertainties in climate sensitivity. Results One Illustrative Scenario to 2050. In the absence of mitigation policy, concentrations of the three major greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide can be expected to increase in this century. If emissions were to cease, anthropogenic CO2 would be removed from the atmosphere by a series of processes operating at different timescales (18). Over timescales of decades, both the land and upper ocean are important sinks. Over centuries to millennia, deep oceanic processes become dominant and are controlled by relatively well-understood physics and chemistry that provide broad consistency across models (see, for example, Fig. S2 showing how the removal of a pulse of carbon compares across a range of models). About 20% of the emitted anthropogenic carbon remains in the atmosphere for many thousands of years (with a range across models including the Bern 2.5CC model being about 19 4% at year 1000 after a pulse emission; see ref. 19), until much slower weathering processes affect the carbonate balance in the ocean (e.g., ref. 18). Models with stronger carbon/climate feedbacks than the one considered here could display larger and more persistent warmings due to both CO2 and non-CO2 greenhouse gases, through reduced land and ocean uptake of carbon in a warmer world. Here our focus is not on the strength of carbon/climate feedbacks that can lead to differences in the carbon concentration decay, but rather on the factors that control the climate response to a given decay. The removal processes of other anthropogenic gases including methane and nitrous oxide are much more simply described by exponential decay constants of about 10 and 114 y, respectively (1), due mainly to known chemical reactions in the atmosphere. In this illustrative study, we do not include the feedback of changes in methane upon its own lifetime (20). We also do not account for potential interactions between CO2 and other gases, such as the production of carbon dioxide from methane oxidation (21), or changes to the carbon cycle through, e.g., methane/ozone chemistry (22). Fig. 1 shows the computed future global warming contributions for carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide for a midrange scenario (23) of projected future anthropogenic emissions of these gases to 2050. Radiative forcings for all three of these gases, and their spectral overlaps, are represented in this work using the expressions assessed in ref. 24. In 2050, the anthropogenic emissions are stopped entirely for illustration purposes. The figure shows nearly irreversible warming for at least 1,000 y due to the imposed carbon dioxide increases, as in previous work. All published studies to date, which use multiple EMICs and one AOGCM, show largely irreversible warming due to future carbon dioxide increases (to within about 0.5 °C) on a timescale of at least 1,000 y (3–5, 25, 26). Fig. 1 shows that the calculated future warmings due to anthropogenic CH4 and N2O also persist notably longer than the lifetimes of these gases. The figure illustrates that emissions of key non-CO2 greenhouse gases such as CH4 or N2O could lead to warming that both temporarily exceeds a given stabilization target (e.g., 2 °C as proposed by the G8 group of nations and in the Copenhagen goals) and remains present longer than the gas lifetimes even if emissions were to cease. A number of recent studies have underscored the important point that reductions of non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions are an approach that can indeed reverse some past climate changes (e.g., ref. 27). Understanding how quickly such reversal could happen and why is an important policy and science question. Fig. 1 implies that the use of policy measures to reduce emissions of short-lived gases will be less effective as a rapid** climate mitigation strategy **than would be thought if based only upon the gas lifetime. Fig. 2 illustrates the factors influencing the warming contributions of each gas for the test case in Fig. 1 in more detail, by showing normalized values (relative to one at their peaks) of the warming along with the radiative forcings and concentrations of CO2 , N2O, and CH4 . For example, about two-thirds of the calculated warming due to N2O is still present 114 y (one atmospheric lifetime) after emissions are halted, despite the fact that its excess concentration and associated radiative forcing at that time has dropped to about one-third of the peak value.**

Climate displacement is already occurring – mass migrations inevitable

Fritz 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Caroline is a Researcher at the Migration Policy Institute (Migration Policy Institute, “Climate Change and Migration: Sorting through Complex Issues without the Hype”, March 4, 2010)</span>**
**Most scientists agree that global warming affects ecological systems, but there is less certainty about its social effects, especially regarding human mobility. Yet this has not prevented a number of scholars, multilateral agencies, and nongovernmental organizations from making alarming predictions that climate change processes will trigger historically unprecedented waves of mass migration. The more widely cited estimates for the number of people displaced by 2050 range from 50 million (UN University's Institute for Environment and Human Security) to 200 million (International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Stern Review). If the higher estimates pan out, climate change-related migration could dwarf current numbers of refugees and internally displaced people — about 45 million and 9 million by United Nations estimates, respectively. While there are no scientifically verified estimates of the number of people that will be displaced by climate change, several studies by UN agencies, IOM, and NGOs, including an influential report published in 2009, already show evidence that environmentally induced migration is occurring. Also, despite controversy surrounding the specifics of climate change data, there is no evidence to contradict the expected trend of continued global warming for at least a few decades to come. This article will examine the complex links between climate change and migration, how and where these links influence current and future migration patterns, and some of the problems with predicting future flows. It will also outline some current policy approaches and look at where the debate is headed. The Climate Change–Migration Nexus Migration has helped humans cope with environmental changes, such as droughts and floods, for centuries. The frequency, severity, and duration of such changes affect the broad types of migration patterns — temporary, permanent, internal, or international — that take place. The prevailing tendency thus far has been toward more circular, internal movements of people from mostly rural to urban areas and within national boundaries or regions. These trends are evident, for example, in the seasonal labor migration of Central American, Mexican, and West African farmers to compensate for lower agricultural productivity in rural areas, as well as in the temporary displacement of thousands of Bangladeshis to their capital, Dhaka, in response to annual monsoon floods. However, severe environmental damage, whether natural or manmade, can leave populations with little recourse but to move permanently and en-masse. This happened in the 1930s Dust Bowl in the Great Plains of the United States. Below-average rainfall, accompanied by the Great Depression, resulted in the widespread failure of small farms and the migration of about 300,000 "Okies" to California. Currently, people are beginning to leave some small island nations in the Pacific with low elevations because the islands are suffering high rates of coastal erosion and experiencing rising sea levels. Environmental degradation is also increasingly common in those areas, such as in West Africa and Haiti, where depleted agricultural land can no longer produce crops sustainably and is abandoned. Scientific evidence shows a trend toward rising sea and air temperatures. Manmade environmental degradation, which includes everything from fuel emissions to deforestation, is accelerating this trend. Global warming is expected to affect the climate through gradual processes, such as glacial melting, as well as through an increase in extreme weather events like cyclones. Both gradual changes and extreme weather events can heighten pressures on land, food, and water resources. In turn, these pressures can contribute to existing problems, including food insecurity, malnutrition, poverty, the spread of disease, rapid urbanization, and political instability, in areas of the world that already struggle with some of these issues. Add to the mix likely population growth, which demographers expect in places like Bangladesh and sub-Saharan Africa, and the chances of new or intensified migration patterns increase.**

Environmental stress is the only cause of conflict in the future – massive migration flows are highly likely to cause war – adaptation is key

Atapattu ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sumudu is an Associate Director, Global Legal Studies Center, University of Wisconsin Law School, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka (Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, “Global Climate Change: Can Human Rights (and Human Beings) Survive this Onslaught?”, Fall 2008) </span>**
**While environmental stress has rarely been the sole cause of conflicts in and between states, the intrinsic link between access to resources - particularly water - and conflict is increasingly recognized. Global climate change will exacerbate this problem. Faced with increased temperatures, erosion, desertification, deforestation, flooding, rising sea levels, forest fires, loss of species, and increased incidence of disease, environmental stress may well become the main cause of conflict in the coming years. While wars and conflicts have forced many people to abandon their homes and flee to relatively safe areas, we are now faced with a situation where people may flee their homes for environmental reasons. People who do so have been termed "environmental refugees," and it is estimated that in 1984-1985 some ten million Africans fled their homes due to reasons connected with environmental degradation. n121 Many of these refugees moved across national boundaries thereby increasing tension in the receiving countries. Most receiving countries can barely cope with their own problems and when more people seek access to quickly dwindling resources, conflicts are bound to increase. The World Commission on Environment and Development ("WCED") described the relationship between environmental degradation and conflict as follows: As unsustainable forms of development push individual countries up against environmental limits, major differences in environmental endowment among countries, or variations in stocks of usable land and raw materials, could precipitate and exacerbate international tension and conflict. And competition for use of the global commons, such as ocean fisheries and Antarctica, or for use of more localized common resources in fixed supply, such as rivers and coastal waters, could escalate to the level of international conflict and so threaten international peace and security. n122 If one also considers the inherent injustices in developing countries, prevailing extreme socioeconomic inequality, and corruption and [*62] poverty, the situation becomes bleak indeed. The WCED recognized the link between global warming and conflict as follows: Environmental threats to security are now beginning to emerge on a global scale. The most worrisome of these stem from the possible consequences of global warming... Any such climatic change would quite probably be unequal in its effects, disrupting agricultural systems in areas that provide a large proportion of the world's cereal harvests and perhaps triggering mass population movements in areas where hunger is already endemic. Sea levels may rise during the first half of the next century enough to radically change the boundaries between coastal nations and to change the shapes and strategic importance of international waterways - effects both likely to increase international tension. The climatic and sea-level change are also likely to disrupt the breeding grounds of economically important fish species. Slowing, or adapting to, global warming is becoming an essential task to reduce the risks of conflict.**

Those wars go nuclear
**Wooldridge 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Frosty, free lance writer, once lectured at Cornell University, 2009 “Humanity galloping toward its greatest crisis in the 21st century” http://www.australia.to/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=10042:humanity-galloping-toward-its-greatest-crisis-in-the-21st-century&catid=125:frosty-wooldridge&Itemid=244</span>**

**It is clear that most <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">politicians and most citizens do not recognize that returning to “more of the same” is a recipe for promoting the first collapse of a global civilization.</span> The required changes in energy technology, which would benefit not only the environment but also national security, public health, and the economy, would demand a World War II type mobilization -- and even that might not prevent a global climate disaster. Without transitioning away from use of fossil fuels, humanity will move further into <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">an era of resource wars</span> (remember, Africom has been added to the Pentagon’s structure -- and China has noticed<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">), clearly with intent to protect US “interests” in petroleum reserve</span>s. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">The consequences of more resource wars, many likely triggered over water supplies stressed by climate disruption, are likely to include increased unrest in poor nations, a proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, widening inequity within and between nations, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">and in the worst (and not unlikely) case, a nuclear war ending civilization</span>.**

Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy
Brown '8 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31) </span>**
**Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate change migrants' vary hugely. In order to persuade policymakers of the need to act and to provide a sound basis for appropriate responses, there is an urgent need for better analysis, better data and better predictions. As early as 1990 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (lPCC) was arguing that the greatest single impact of climate change could be on human migration. So far, the scientific community has focused on establishing the extent and nature of anthropogenic climate change and its impact on our weather systems and coastlines. Much less time and energy; however, have been spent on empirical analysis of the impacts of climate change on human population distribution. Consequently the figures that analysts have produced to date represent little more than well-educated guesswork. This is unsurprising; the science of climate change is complex enough, even before considering its impact on societies with widely differing resources and varied capacities to adapt to external shocks. To assess the future impact of climate change on complex changing communities is to heap prediction upon prediction, multiplying the potential margin of error. Perhaps the best-known estimate for future migration forced by climate was made by Professor Norman Myers of Oxford University: Looking ahead to 2050 he has argued that "when global warming takes hold there could be as many as 200 million people [displaced] by disruptions of monsoon systems and other change (from a predicted global population of nine billion people). Other estimates vary widely in terms of numbers, time frame and causes. In 2005 the UN University’s Institute for Environment and Human Security warned that the international community should prepare for 50 million 'environmental refugees' by 2010. The UN Environment widely cited. But repetition does not make the figure inherently accurate. Professor Myers himself admits that his estimate, although calculated from the best available (and limited) data, required some "heroic extrapolations". The simple fact is that nobody really knows with any degree of precision what climate change will mean for human population distribution. We know that climate change will redraw our coastlines, alter where we can grow food, move where and when we can find water and expose us to fiercer storms or more severe droughts. We know that on current predictions the 'carrying capacity' of large parts of the world - the ability of different ecosystems to provide food, water and shelter for human populations - will be compromised by climate change. Intuitively we know that climate migration is likely to be a serious issue in future. we just don't know how serious. And it is hard to persuade policymakers of its importance without concrete (or at least more sophisticated) figures. The estimates we have so far are no real foundation for an appropriate response either. The challenge now is to better understand how climate change could affect population distribution and then to develop effective ways to address the possible consequences of forced migration, such as social and economic dislocation, delayed development or conflict. For that we need clearer answers to some key questions: How many people are likely to move as a result of climate change? Where are they likely to come from and go to? How much warning will they have? Will they be able to return? Better data on any or all of the questions above will help identify the most vulnerable populations, the regions of greatest concern and the potential effects of climate migration on development and stability: Ultimately better data would move the debate towards the three questions of most relevance to policymakers: Who should be responsible for providing for climate induced migrants? For how long will they typically need support? And how much will it all cost? The problem of prediction Developing more solid predictions will require a lot of hard number crunching that is only now really starting Those predictions are complicated by at least four factors. Disaggregating Causality Migrants’ decisions to leave their homes are influenced by a number of complex factors; deciding causality between economic 'pull' and environmental 'push' is often highly subjective. Disaggregating the role of climate change from other environmental, economic and social factors requires an ambitious analytical step into the dark. In short, deducing cause and effect between climate change and forced migration is very difficult. Eliminating the statistical ‘white noise': Future climate migration will take place against a background of unprecedented changes in the number and distribution of the world's population. The global population is currently growing at an annual rate of 1.1% and is predicted to peak at 9.075 billion by 2050 (from its 2005 level of 6.54 billion). Meanwhile, there is an accelerating move to urban areas. Already more than half of the world's population lives in urban settings and the growth rate of the urban population is nearly double that of total population growth. Clearly it would be absurd to attribute the entire urban drift to climate change but disaggregating the additional role of climate change on existing rural-urban migration is very hard. Dealing with the Lack of Data: Base-line data for current migration flows in many of the developing countries thought to be most vulnerable to climate change are patchy and incomplete. Nor is there much capacity in developing countries or the international community to gather this kind of dam, particularly for internal displacement. Census data rarely include the kind of questions that would give a nuanced understanding of the reasons behind internal population movements. What limited capacity exists is focused on tracking cross-border migration - which only captures a part of the picture, given that the majority of forced climate migrants are likely to stay within their own borders. Factoring in Uncertainty: Finally although climate modeling techniques have progressed dramatically over the past decade, we have not yet developed the modeling techniques that even begin to adequately account for the impact of individual choice, the potential for international action and the variability of future emissions and meteorological scenarios. Towards Better Data: We need more time, effort and energy to be put towards developing a better understanding of future forced migration.**

More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – a US federal policy is key
Lewis et al ’10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>**
**Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions— the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions.15 Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite.16 Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million,17 which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY.18 The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors.19 The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities.20 Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16.21 Only a coordinated federal policy and investment-, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastrophe are likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.**

Scenario 1 is South Asia
Climate migrants now and increasing– more than 30 million last year
Harvey 9/19 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fiona is an environmental correspondent (The Guardian, "More than 30 million climate migrants in Asia in 2010, report finds", September 19, 2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/sep/19/climate-migrants-asia-2010) </span>**
**More than 30 million people were displaced last year by environmental and weather-related disasters across Asia, experts have warned, and the problem is only likely to grow worse as climate change exacerbates such problems. Tens of millions more people are likely to be similarly displaced in the future by the effects of climate change, including rising sea levels, floods, droughts and reduced agricultural productivity. Such people are likely to migrate in regions across Asia, and governments must start to prepare for the problems this will create, the Asian Development Bank warned. The costs will be high – about $40bn is the likely price for adapting and putting in place protective measures, from sea walls to re-growing mangrove swamps that have been cut down, and that can help to protect against the impacts of storm surges. But the problem is already taking effect, though at a much lower scale than is likely in the future. "While large-scale climate-induced migration is a gradual phenomenon, communities in Asia and the Pacific are already experiencing the consequences of changing environmental conditions including eroding shorelines, desertification and more frequent severe storms and flooding," the bank said at a workshop last week. This could lead to a widespread crisis across the region in coming years, if preparations are not made to deal with the current and probable future consequences. Robert Dobias, climate change project chief at the Asian Development Bank, said that at present climate change is still a relatively small cause of migration, as economic causes loom largest and as environmental disasters happen independently of global warming. However, the problem is likely to increase in future years, with potentially severe consequences, including conflict as people are forced to move long distances. Areas most at risk are low-lying islands such as the Maldives, whose environment minister, Mohamed Aslam, said the populations of entire islands in the archipelago had been forced to move. But coastal cities in developed regions could also face the threat of higher seas and storm surges, while regions that already suffer severe floods such as Bangladesh will have their risks intensified. The Asian Development Bank warned that governments must start to make preparations now, to be ready for the multiplying threats, and because more extreme weather has already started to take effect, though changes so far have not been dramatic in their impact.**

Environmental monitoring key to prevent Indo-Pak water tensions and South China Sea conflicts

Parthemore and Rogers ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,</span>[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf|__http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**
**The United States depends on satellite systems for managing the unconventional challenges of the 21st century in ways that are rarely acknowledged. This is particularly true for satellites that monitor climate change and other environmental trends, which, in the words of the Department of Defense’s (DOD’s) 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review, “will shape the operating environment, roles, and missions” of DOD and “may act as an accelerant of instability or conflict, placing a burden to respond on civilian institutions and militaries around the world.” 2 Examples abound of how climate change is shaping the strategic environment and of why the U.S. government needs continued access to earth monitoring data: • The opening of the Arctic is requiring the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard to execute new missions in the High North, including more frequent search and rescue missions. • The receding Himalayan glaciers and related reduced river flows to South Asia may shape the future relationship between India and Pakistan. Defense planners and diplomats will need to monitor changes in the glaciers that supply rivers in Pakistan in order to determine whether access to water will exacerbate existing military and diplomatic tensions between India and Pakistan – states that have longstanding grievances over how they share water. • In the South China Sea, changing ocean conditions are altering fish migration, leading neighboring countries to compete over access to billions of dollars in fish resources; this situation could escalate into serious conflict in contested territorial waters. DOD and development agencies rely on earth monitoring systems to monitor urbanization, migration patterns and internal population displacement. Several government agencies also rely on earth monitoring capabilities to analyze compliance with deforestation and emissions measures in international climate change treaties, just as the government relies on space-based capabilities to monitor and verify compliance with non-proliferation treaties. Responding to environmental and climate change trends requires a steady stream of reliable information from earth monitoring satellites that is quickly becoming unavailable. Ideally, the U.S. government would replace its aging earth monitoring satellites.**

Conflict in the South China Sea escalates – draws in major powers

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Waldron '97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Arthur is a Professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College (Commentary, "How not to deal with China", Vol 103.3 p.44)</span>
**Then there is Southeast Asia, which, having weathered the Vietnam War and a variety of domestic insurgencies, and having moved onto the track of prosperity, shows no desire to complicate matters with political headaches. Fault lines nevertheless remain, and not least between the numerous and disproportionately successful ethnic Chinese and other inhabitants. And here again China is a looming worry. Beijing’s claim of "unquestionable sovereignty” over the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea and its recent seizure of one of them, Mischief Reef, also claimed by the Philippines, have alarmed Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Brunei, and rattled Indonesia, which asserts its right to gas fields nearby. India and South Asia, long preoccupied with their own internal rivalries and content with their rates of growth, now look with envy and some concern as East Asia opens an ever-increasing lead in economics, military power, and general global clout. Indian and Chinese forces still face each other in the high mountains of their disputed border, as they have done since their war in l962. Pakistan to the west is a key Chinese ally, and beyond, in the Middle East, China is reportedly supplying arms to Syria, Iraq, and Iran. To the north, Tibet (whose government-in-exile has been based in India since 1959) is currently the object of a vicious Chinese crackdown. And a new issue between India and China is Beijing’s alliance with Rangoon and its reported military or intelligence-gathering presence on offshore Burmese territories near the Indian naval base in the Andaman Islands. Finally there is Russia, which has key interests in Asia. Sidelined by domestic problems, but only temporarily, Moscow has repeatedly faced China in this century, both in the northeast and along the Mongolian border. The breakup of the Soviet Union has added a potentially volatile factor in the newly independent states of Central Asia and Chinese-controlled Xinjiang (Sinkiang), where Beijing is currently fighting a low-level counterinsurgency. Making these flash-points all the more volatile has been a dramatic increase in the quantity and quality of China's weapons acquisitions. An Asian arms race of sorts was already adhering steam in the post-cold-war era, driven by national rivalries and the understandable desire of newly rich nation-states to upgrade their capacities; but the Chinese build-up has intensified its In part a payoff to the military for its role at Tiananmen Square in 1989, China's current build-up is part and parcel of the regimes major shift since that time away from domestic liberalization and international openness toward repression and irredentism. Today China buys weapons from European states and Israel, but most importantly from Russia. The latest multibillion-dollar deal included two Sovremenny-class destroyers equipped with the much-feared SS-N-22 cruise missile, capable of defeating the Aegis anti-missile defenses of the U.S. Navy and thus sinking American aircraft carriers. This is in addition to the Su-27 fighter aircraft, quiet Kilo-class submarines, and other force-projection and deterrent technologies. In turn, the Asian states are buying or developing their own advanced aircraft, missiles, and submarines-and considering nuclear options. The sort of unintended escalation which started two world wars could arise from any of the conflicts around China’s periphery. It nearly did so in March 1996, when China, in a blatant act of intimidation, fired ballistic missiles in the Taiwan Straits. It could arise from a Chinese Vietnamese confrontation, particularly if the Vietnamese should score some unexpected military successes against the Chinese, as they did in 1979, and if the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which they are now a member, should tip in the direction of Hanoi. It could flare up from the smoldering insurgencies among Tibetans, Muslims, or Mongolians living inside China. Chains of alliance or interest, perhaps not clearly understood until the moment of crisis itself, could easily draw in neighboring states -~~- Russia, or India, or Japan-or the United States.**

Water sharing is the only scenario for Indo-Pak nuclear conflict**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Bakshi and Trivedi ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gitanjali and Sahiba, Project Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit at the Strategic Foresight Group and Joint Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit., (Strategic Foresight, “The Indus Equation”, June 2011, [[http://www.strategicforesight.com/110617.pdf]])</span>**

**Pakistan’s primary interest in Kashmir is to secure its major water resources as the headwaters of the Western Rivers are located here. J&K is often described as the ‘jugular vein’ of Pakistan. “India has captured the jugular veins of Pakistan for the last 63 years in order to inflict destruction upon Pakistan but Pakistani leaders are not concerned about the seriousness of this issue. Pakistan should convey to India that a war is possible on the issue of water and this time war will be nuclear one.” - Nawa-i-Waqt Editorial, 4 April, 2011. Jammu and Kashmir is considered an integral part of Pakistan’s food, water and power security. Water from J&K would provide much needed water for irrigation to Punjab and Sindh and alleviate tensions between these two provinces; it would also provide more irrigable land for Pakistan’s growing demand for wheat. Also, the viability of dam sites decreases at the lower end of the Western Rivers of the Indus with a much larger chance of silting. In J&K the flow of the rivers are strong and the estimated hydropower potential of the state is 20,000MW. Pakistan’s combined potential is 40,000MW, so J&K could technically increase Pakistan’s hydro-power potential by 33%. “Agreement on Kashmir, the source of water, on which Pakistan’s life and death depends, is vital otherwise nuclear war is hanging as the sword of Damocles’.” - Former IRSA Chairman Eng. Fateh Gandapur, 24 February 2011. India is not allowed to harness this potential, however, as it can only build run-of-the-river projects in J&K, according to the provisions stipulated in the IWT. If it is able to take over the area, Pakistan will not be bound by such restrictions and the Chenab River has tremendous potential for hydel generation. As elucidated in SFG’s 2005 report – ‘The Final Settlement’ - Pakistan can only secure complete control over the Chenab waters if it secures control over certain parts of Jammu as a large part of the catchment area of the Chenab River lies in Jammu.**

Even a limited Indo-Pak nuclear exchange leads to extinction
Robock and Toon '10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan is professor of climatology and associate director of Center for Environmental Prediction, Rutgers University, Owen Brian is hair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences and fellow of the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder (Scientific American, "Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering", January 2010, Vol 302.1)</span>**
**Worry has focused on the U.S. versus Russia, but a regional nuclear war between India and Pakistan could blot out the sun, starving much of the human race. Twenty-five years ago international teams of scientists showed that a nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union could produce a "nuclear winter." The smoke from vast fires started by bombs dropped on cities and industrial areas would envelop the planer and absorb so much sunlight that the earth's surface would get cold, dark and dry, killing plants worldwide and eliminating our food supply. Surface temperatures would reach winter values in the summer. International discussion about this prediction, fueled largely by astronomer Carl Sagan, forced the leaders of the two superpowers to confront the possibility that their arms race endangered not just themselves but the entire human race. Countries large and small demanded disarmament. Nuclear winter became an important factor in ending the nuclear arms race. Looking back later, in 2000, former Soviet Union leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev observed, "Models made by Russian and American scientists showed that a nuclear war would result in a nuclear winter that would be extremely destructive to all life on earth; the knowledge of that was a great stimulus to us, to people of honor and morality, to act." Why discuss this topic now that the cold war has ended? Because as other nations continue to acquire nuclear weapons, smaller, regional nuclear wars could create a similar global catastrophe. New analyses reveal that a conflict between India and Pakistan, for example, in which 100 nuclear bombs were dropped on cities and industrial areas--only 0.4 percent of the world's more than 25,000 warheads--would produce enough smoke to cripple global agriculture. A regional war could cause widespread loss of life even in countries far away from the conflict. Regional War Threatens the World By deploying modern computers and modern climate models, the two of us and our colleagues have shown that not only were the ideas of the 1980s correct but the effects would last for at least 10 years, much longer than previously thought. And by doing calculations that assess decades of time, only now possible with fast, current computers, and by including in our calculations the oceans and the entire atmosphere--also only now possible--we have found that the smoke from even a regional war would be heated and lofted by the sun and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth. India and Pakistan, which together have more than 100 nuclear weapons, may be the most worrisome adversaries capable of a regional nuclear conflict today. But other countries besides the U.S. and Russia (which have thousands) are well endowed: China, France and the U.K. have hundreds of nuclear warheads; Israel has more than 80, North Korea has about 10 and Iran may well be trying to make its own. In 2004 this situation prompted one of us (Toon) and later Rich Turco of the University of California, Los Angeles, both veterans of the 1980s investigations, to begin evaluating what the global environmental effects of a regional nuclear war would be and to take as our test case an engagement between India and Pakistan. The latest estimates by David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security and by Robert S. Norris of the Natural Resources Defense Council are that India has 50 to 60 assembled weapons (with enough plutonium for 100) and that Pakistan has 60 weapons. Both countries continue to increase their arsenals. Indian and Pakistani nuclear weapons tests indicate that the yield of the warheads would be similar to the 15-kiloton explosive yield (equivalent to 15,000 tons of TNT) of the bomb the U.S. used on Hiroshima. Toon and Turco, along with Charles Bardeen, now at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, modeled what would happen if 50 Hiroshima-size bombs were dropped across the highest population-density targets in Pakistan and if 50 similar bombs were also dropped across India. Some people maintain that nuclear weapons would be used in only a measured way. But in the wake of chaos, fear and broken communications that would occur once a nuclear war began, we doubt leaders would limit attacks in any rational manner. This likelihood is particularly true for Pakistan, which is small and could be quickly overrun in a conventional conflict. Peter R. Lavoy of the Naval Postgraduate School, for example, has analyzed the ways in which a conflict between India and Pakistan might occur and argues that Pakistan could face a decision to use all its nuclear arsenal quickly before India swamps its military bases with traditional forces. Obviously, we hope the number of nuclear targets in any future war will be zero, but policy makers and voters should know what is possible. Toon and Turco found that more than 20 million people in the two countries could die from the blasts, fires and radioactivity--a horrible slaughter. But the investigators were shocked to discover that a tremendous amount of smoke would be generated, given the megacities in the two countries, assuming each fire would burn the same area that actually did burn in Hiroshima and assuming an amount of burnable material per person based on various studies. They calculated that the 50 bombs exploded in Pakistan would produce three teragrams of smoke, and the 50 bombs hitting India would generate four (one teragram equals a million metric tons). Satellite observations of actual forest fires have shown that smoke can be lofted up through the troposphere (the bottom layer of the atmosphere) and sometimes then into the lower stratosphere (the layer just above, extending to about 30 miles). Toon and Turco also did some "back of the envelope" calculations of the possible climate impact of the smoke should it enter the stratosphere. The large magnitude of such effects made them realize they needed help from a climate modeler. It turned out that one of us (Robock) was already working with Luke Oman, now at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, who was finishing his Ph.D. at Rutgers University on the climatic effects of volcanic eruptions, and with Georgiy L. Stenchikov, also at Rutgers and an author of the first Russian work on nuclear winter. They developed a climate model that could be used fairly easily for the nuclear blast calculations. Robock and his colleagues, being conservative, put five teragrams of smoke into their modeled upper troposphere over India and Pakistan on an imaginary May 15. The model calculated how winds would blow the smoke around the world and how the smoke particles would settle out from the atmosphere. The smoke covered all the continents within two weeks. The black, sooty smoke absorbed sunlight, warmed and rose into the stratosphere. Rain never falls there, so the air is never cleansed by precipitation; particles very slowly settle out by falling, with air resisting them. Soot particles are small, with an average diameter of only 0.1 micron (μm), and so drift down very slowly. They also rise during the daytime as they are heated by the sun, repeatedly delaying their elimination. The calculations showed that the smoke would reach far higher into the upper stratosphere than the sulfate particles that are produced by episodic volcanic eruptions. Sulfate particles are transparent and absorb much less sunlight than soot and are also bigger, typically 0.5 μm. The volcanic particles remain airborne for about two years, but smoke from nuclear fires would last a decade.**

Scenario 2 is the Arctic
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Climate change causes Arctic instability – only monitoring solves</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">IOC ’10 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission for the United Nations, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (“Why monitor the Arctic Ocean? Services to society from a sustained ocean observing system”, 2010, http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0018/001898/189843e.pdf) </span>
**The Arctic is dominated by oceans and coasts. The region is warming at roughly twice the global average rate, with a dramatic reduction in summer sea ice extent as one of the clearest indicators of this trend. Physical and biological processes are being transformed across the entire region, while climate feedback mechanisms in the Arctic’s changing atmospheric and oceanic dynamics impact at global scales. Change in the Arctic Ocean environment is also leading to a wealth of interconnected social transformations. Arctic states dispute territorial claims as the Arctic reveals its increasing economic and strategic potential, while the international community also seeks to have a voice and a guaranteed research presence in the region. The oil and gas industry is sizing up the arctic sea bed for exploitation, and economically important shipping lanes are predicted to open. With industrial development, increasing numbers of people are migrating to the Arctic. The region’s indigenous peoples are stepping up their efforts to gain control over the developments taking place in their territories, while maintaining their cultural continuity. Meanwhile, conservationists are increasingly highlighting the need to protect the fragile arctic environment. Vulnerability in the Arctic Ocean is therefore increasing. Its environment and peoples are under growing stress from climate change. Industrial infrastructure and shipping create further pressures, while simultaneously being at risk themselves in this often hostile ocean. Never has accurate information been more important, yet at present we know very little about the Arctic Ocean. Critical physical processes are poorly understood, ecosystems remain unstudied and undiscovered, and indigenous voices go unheard. This lack of knowledge thwarts efforts to detect, predict or manage the interrelated physical, biological and social impacts of climate change, making sustainable development almost impossible. A coordinated observing system must therefore be created for the Arctic Ocean and its coasts, to provide baseline data and ensure sustained monitoring.**

This instability causes war with Russia and NATO – escalates to nuclear war
Staples ‘9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven is with the Danish Institute for International Studies (Rideau Institute, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone” August 10, 2009)</span>**
**The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 year In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Quickest scenario for extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, [[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]])</span>**

**President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. They must not let the current economic crisis keep them from focusing on one of the greatest threats confronting humanity: the danger of nuclear war. Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later. Just one of these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes. An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die. Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct. It is common to discuss nuclear war as a low-probabillity event. But is this true? We know of five occcasions during the last 30 years when either the U.S. or Russia believed it was under attack and prepared a counter-attack. The most recent of these near misses occurred after the end of the Cold War on Jan. 25, 1995, when the Russians mistook a U.S. weather rocket launched from Norway for a possible attack. Jan. 25, 1995, was an ordinary day with no major crisis involving the U.S. and Russia. But, unknown to almost every inhabitant on the planet, a misunderstanding led to the potential for a nuclear war. The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.**

Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change

Rogers and Gulledge 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. (Center for New American Security, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April 2010,</span>[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf|__http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Climate change will likely exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, water scarcity and extreme weather events in the United States and around the world, with significant implications for national and global security. These changes could increase the need for humanitarian and disaster relief, as well as threats to security emanating from already weak or failing states. DOD is currently studying locations where climate change could worsen trends such as drought and increased frequency and intensity of storms. DOD recognizes the need to better understand where these trends will be most acute in order to prepare for possible U.S. military deployments to provide humanitarian and disaster assistance, as well as to prepare the military for possible climate-induced flashpoints.5 National security professionals, and the military in particular, have a vested interest in understanding how climate change could affect the operating environment in regions where they have personnel, infrastructure and equipment. For instance, changes in the operating environment have the potential to interfere with or incapacitate military installations and equipment vital to mission effectiveness (i.e., the military’s ability to complete its missions), including training ranges, forward operating bases and military aircraft, vehicles and personnel. While understanding climate science is and will continue to be essential to the national security community, the implications of not integrating climate science into regular decision making processes should not be overstated. The U.S. government, and in particular the national security community, is resilient and capable of operating under uncertainty and adapting to change. But adapting in response to, rather than in advance of, projected climatic changes would likely be less effective and more costly in both economic and human terms. The military, development and diplomatic communities may require long lead times to develop new capabilities, strategies and trained personnel – and position them appropriately – for the future security environment. If these communities do not integrate climate science into their decision making today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges.


====Ohio Valley==== 
mostly the same as Glenbrooks octas but we changed inherency and the terminal impact to China

**Current satellites can’t solve – despite a recent increase, programs are still largely underfunded**
**Fialka 11/17 –** reporter @ WSJ, Washington Bureau (John J. Fialka and ClimateWire, "Weather Data Gap Now Appears Certain", November 17, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=weather-data-gap-now-appears-certain)
A House-Senate deal to fund the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration includes enough cash to stabilize the nation's struggling environmental satellite program, a top agency official said yesterday. A conference agreement released Monday night includes $924 million for NOAA's Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), just shy of the Obama administration's fiscal 2012 request, $1.07 billion. NOAA's deputy undersecretary for operations, Mary Glackin, told a Senate committee yesterday that the funds would help firm up the launch schedule for the program's first satellite and limit a projected gap in weather and climate data. "We are extremely pleased at the conference report that came out and look forward to that being signed into law," Glackin told the Senate Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee. "Given what looks like some certainty in the funding for 2012, at a level that's not perfect but certainly very good, we'll be in a much better position." NOAA received just $382 million for JPSS in fiscal 2011, well below the $910 million it sought. That forced the agency to pare down its workload to preparing one satellite for launch in October and continuing to prepare instruments for its next satellite, now set to launch in early 2017. Playing catch-up without a plan The White House budget request for 2011 included enough money to support roughly 1,600 JPSS staffers, but the agency could only afford to pay about 800 staffers last year because Congress slashed funding for the program. The result is "a nearly 100 percent chance" of a gap in weather and climate data used by NOAA and the military, Glackin said, because the JPSS-1 satellite won't be ready to replace its predecessor, the NPP satellite that launched last month, before it stops functioning. NOAA believes the data gap will begin in late 2016 and last anywhere from 12 to 18 months, depending on how long it takes the agency to complete quality-control checks on the data transmitted from JPSS-1 once the satellite reaches orbit. Now, with the conference deal expected to be approved, and NOAA set to receive about 90 percent of the money it sought for the current budget cycle, "we will begin to add staff up to the level that's projected," Glackin said. That will allow NOAA to begin work on areas it neglected in 2011, including work on the ground system for the NPP satellite and building the body for the program's next satellite. Trying to overcome 'years of setbacks' But the agency is not out of the woods yet, the Commerce Department's inspector general, Todd Zinser, told lawmakers. Zinser said NOAA does not have a final plan to lessen the impact of any data gap that occurs between the time NPP stops working and when JPSS-1 is fully operational, which he said could be as long as 21 months. Meanwhile, Zinser said, the agency must work to prevent another potential data gap that could occur if the NPP satellite hasn't finished in-orbit quality control checks before its predecessor, known as NOAA-19, reaches the end of its design life in March 2013. Zinser and NOAA agree that it could take up to 18 months to finish the checks on NPP, which launched in October, which would mean the satellite wouldn't be fully operational until the very end of NOAA-19's design life. "JPSS is a critically important program for the nation and its ability to observe weather and provide data for forecasts, watches and warnings, but it is a program that must overcome years of setbacks," Zinser said.

<span class="Underline">**South China Sea conflicts go nuclear**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tharoor 9/19**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – TIME reporter, editor of Global Spin, (Ishaan, 2011, "Is This How Wars Start? India and China Now Feud Over the South China Sea," http://globalspin.blogs.time.com/2011/09/19/is-this-how-wars-start-india-and-china-now-feud-over-the-south-china-sea/#disqus_thread, RG)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Last week, one of the world's most intractable disputes got even stickier. News leaked that the international-arm of India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) was in talks with the government of Vietnam over hydrocarbon exploration rights in the South China Sea. In most parts of the world this would seem a routine bi-lateral development between two countries driven by their dynamic economies. But the South China Sea, whose waters are claimed to varying degree by half a dozen countries and almost in full by China, is unlike any body of water in the world, and where an oil company may see opportunity, most others only see a swirling geo-political maelstrom. China and Vietnam have competing territorial claims to the sea and the archipelagoes — uninhabited spits of land and rock, for the most part — sitting at its heart. The long-running dispute flared alarmingly over the summer following confrontations between Chinese and Vietnamese vessels. Adding India to the mix — the only country in Asia that presents something of a challenge to Chinese primacy — can only exacerbate tensions. An editorial in the Chinese state-run Global Times, often a mouthpiece for more hawkish elements among the leadership in Beijing, sternly warned India against “pursuing this course of action.” The editorial went on: India should bear in mind that its actions in the South China Sea will push China to the limit. China cherishes the Sino-Indian friendship, but this does not mean China values it above all else… China has been peaceful for so long that some countries doubt whether it will stick to its stated bottom line. China should remind them of how clear this line really is. Invoking dusty imperial records and charts, both Beijing and Hanoi insist upon the “indisputable” nature of their maritime sovereignty. Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, and Malaysia also have overlapping claims. But, given the presence of a potentially vast cache of hydrocarbons below its depths and its strategic value as the main thoroughfare for some of the world's most important shipping lanes, it's not surprising that the South China Sea piques the interests of other powers further afield. Last year, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said resolving the disputes in the South China Sea and ensuring safe passage for international shipping was, for the Americans, a “leading diplomatic priority” — another way of saying that Washington reserves the right to intervene in those waters. India has stepped up its defense ties with Vietnam, winning access to naval ports while helping Hanoi ready a new fleet of submarines. Beijing has been somewhat spooked by such collaboration, not least because of Vietnam's proximity to Hainan, the island province where China's own rapidly modernizing nuclear submarine fleet is housed. According to reports that emerged only this past month, in late July, a Chinese ship attempted to intercept an Indian warship, the INS Airavat, off the Vietnamese coast. The Airavat was headed to the Vietnamese port of Haiphong on a routine mission. Earlier, a testy standoff between Chinese naval vessels and Vietnamese ships exploring for oil kicked off a summer of simmering tensions. India and China share a long, heavily militarized (and also disputed) land border across the spine of the Himalayas. But while differences there have been more or less frozen for decades across a glacial expanse, the threat of confrontations at sea may prove far more unpredictable. Gwynne Dyer, a veteran Asia hand, writes: You can attack a land border if you really want to, but it is a very big decision with incalculable consequences: a declaration of war, in effect. Even the most arrogant or paranoid governments will think long and hard before embarking on such an action, and generally they end up by deciding not to do it. Whereas at sea, you can easily drift into a serious military confrontation that neither side intended. And the possible scenarios for (inadvertent) Sino-Indian naval conflict will only mushroom over time. After all, India's tentative wading into the South China Sea follows a steady drum beat of Chinese projects across the Indian Ocean rim around India — what some have dubbed the “string of pearls.” According to some Indian strategists, China has set up naval facilities and listening posts from Burma to Pakistan, with a strategic, deep-sea port at Hambantota, Sri Lanka, in between. Therefore, writes Harsh Pant, an international affairs scholar at King's College, London, India should play the same game. He writes: India is right to forcefully reject Chinese claims of sovereignty over the entire South China Sea. It should now build credible strategic partnerships with other regional states to prevent a Chinese regional dominance that will undermine Indian and regional security interests. On one level, such thinking makes plenty of sense: as rising powers neither India nor China should compromise their own interests to placate the oft-illusory fears of the other. But, despite the strength of the two countries' economic ties and the paeans to their friendship that frequently emanate from both capitals, few doubt that the rise of India and China will lead to friction. Neighbors in a complicated region, they are bound to bump up against each other. And when the two nuclear-armed nations that comprise nearly a third of humanity do bump, the stakes will be high — and the fallout potentially incalculable.</span>

====<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pace RR </span>==== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its Earth observation capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention 1 is Disease**

**Climate satellites aren’t sufficient now**
**Lewis et al ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>

Until this year, America’s civil space policies—and the budgets that derive from it—were shaped to a considerable degree by the political imperatives of the past and by the romantic fiction of spaceflight. We believe there is a new imperative—climate change—that should take precedence in our national plans for space and that the goal for space spending in the next decade should be to create a robust and adequate Earth observation architecture. There is unequivocal evidence, despite careless mistakes and noisy protests, that Earth’s climate is warming. While the effects and implications of this are subject to speculation, there should be no doubt that the world faces a major challenge. There are important shortfalls in data and analysis needed to manage this challenge. Inadequate data mean that we cannot determine the scope or nature of change in some key areas, such as the melting of Antarctic sea ice. Long-term changes in daily temperature are not adequately understood, in part because of limited observations of atmospheric changes. Our understanding of how some anthropogenic (man-made) influences affect climate change is still incomplete. 1 These shortfalls must be remedied, if only to overcome skepticism and doubt. Climate change now occupies a central place on the global political agenda, and the United States should adjust its space policies to reflect this. Assessing and managing climate change will require taking what has largely been a scientific enterprise and “operationalizing” it. Operationalization means creating processes to provide the data and analysis that governments will need if they are to implement policies and regulations to soften the effects of climate change. Operationalization requires the right kind of data and adequate tools for collecting, analyzing, and disseminating that data in ways that inform decisionmaking at many levels of society. Satellites play a central role in assessing climate change because they can provide a consistent global view, important data, and an understanding of change in important but remote areas. Yet there are relatively few climate satellites—a total of 19, many of which are well past their expected service life. Accidents or failures would expose the fragility of the Earth observation system. 2 We lack the required sensors and instruments for the kinds of measurement that would make predictions more accurate and solutions more acceptable. Weather satellites, which take low-resolution pictures of clouds, forests, and ice caps, are not adequate to the task. NASA builds impressive Earth observation satellites for climate change, but these have been experimental rather than ongoing programs. Climate change poses a dilemma for space policy. The programs needed to manage climate change have been woefully underfunded for decades. The normal practice is to call uncritically for more money for civil space and its three components—planetary exploration, Earth observation, and manned spaceflight. In fact, civil space has been lavishly funded. Since 1989, NASA has received $385 billion, with $189 billion in the last decade. 3 This is more than the space budgets of most other nations combined. The problem is not a lack of money but how it has been spent. The bulk of this money went to NASA’s manned space program. This is a legacy of the Cold War. Manned spaceflight showed that market democracies could surpass scientific socialism. The point has been made. Spaceflight provides prestige, but a long series of miscalculations have left the United States with a fragile and fabulously expensive space transportation system. It will take years to recover, and some goals, such as a voyage to Mars, are simply unachievable absent major breakthroughs in physics and other sciences. If we accept that climate change poses serious risks to regional stability, national security, and economic health, the United States needs to reconsider its funding priorities for civil space. Earth observation is crucial for national security and the economy; manned spaceflight programs provide prestige. The United States must make climate-monitoring satellites its priority for funding if it is serious about managing climate change. In practical terms, this means a reduction in the spending on human spaceflight in order to fund a sustained program of satellite-building to create a robust climate monitoring space system.This is, of course, not an all-or-nothing issue. The United States can fund a range of space programs, manned and unmanned, for exploration and for Earth sciences. It is a question of priorities. Our recommendation is that the funding given to Earth observation should increase, as it is more important now for the national interest to monitor and manage climate change, even if that means a slower pace for other programs, such as manned spaceflight, until a robust Earth observation system has been put in orbit. Having the right data is only part of the challenge. The usefulness of that data depends on the strength of climate models and computing capabilities and our ability to make this information available to decisionmakers and user communities in a useful form. In the United States, these functions could be provided by a strengthened and reorganized interagency climate information structure bolstered by the creation of a National Climate Service, which could aggregate and analyze climate data in ways tailored to support management, policymaking, and the information needs of a broad-based user community.There is also an opportunity for the United States to lead an international effort that takes the many existing collaboration structures—such as the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS)—and operationalizes them. The Global Framework for Climate Services being advocated by the World Meteorological Organization could provide the platform to make climate data more accessible to policymakers. The United States is the nation that is most active in space and the nation with the greatest need to demonstrate responsible leadership. A willingness to cooperate and share will help build America’s global influence. Operationalizing science to manage climate change, building the capacity to acquire the needed information and share it with a wide range of users, and bolstering these capabilities at the international level as a part of a productive engagement strategy in what has so far been a contentious road to international agreement should all be goals for the United States both to address climate change, contribute to solving a global problem, and rebuild U.S. leadership.

**Current satellites can’t solve – despite a recent increase, programs are still largely underfunded**
**Fialka 11/17 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">reporter @ WSJ, Washington Bureau (John J. Fialka and ClimateWire, "Weather Data Gap Now Appears Certain", November 17, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=weather-data-gap-now-appears-certain)</span>

A House-Senate deal to fund the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration includes enough cash to stabilize the nation's struggling environmental satellite program, a top agency official said yesterday. A conference agreement released Monday night includes $924 million for NOAA's Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), just shy of the Obama administration's fiscal 2012 request, $1.07 billion. NOAA's deputy undersecretary for operations, Mary Glackin, told a Senate committee yesterday that the funds would help firm up the launch schedule for the program's first satellite and limit a projected gap in weather and climate data. "We are extremely pleased at the conference report that came out and look forward to that being signed into law," Glackin told the Senate Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee. "Given what looks like some certainty in the funding for 2012, at a level that's not perfect but certainly very good, we'll be in a much better position." NOAA received just $382 million for JPSS in fiscal 2011, well below the $910 million it sought. That forced the agency to pare down its workload to preparing one satellite for launch in October and continuing to prepare instruments for its next satellite, now set to launch in early 2017. Playing catch-up without a plan The White House budget request for 2011 included enough money to support roughly 1,600 JPSS staffers, but the agency could only afford to pay about 800 staffers last year because Congress slashed funding for the program. The result is "a nearly 100 percent chance" of a gap in weather and climate data used by NOAA and the military, Glackin said, because the JPSS-1 satellite won't be ready to replace its predecessor, the NPP satellite that launched last month, before it stops functioning. NOAA believes the data gap will begin in late 2016 and last anywhere from 12 to 18 months, depending on how long it takes the agency to complete quality-control checks on the data transmitted from JPSS-1 once the satellite reaches orbit. Now, with the conference deal expected to be approved, and NOAA set to receive about 90 percent of the money it sought for the current budget cycle, "we will begin to add staff up to the level that's projected," Glackin said. That will allow NOAA to begin work on areas it neglected in 2011, including work on the ground system for the NPP satellite and building the body for the program's next satellite. Trying to overcome 'years of setbacks' But the agency is not out of the woods yet, the Commerce Department's inspector general, Todd Zinser, told lawmakers. Zinser said NOAA does not have a final plan to lessen the impact of any data gap that occurs between the time NPP stops working and when JPSS-1 is fully operational, which he said could be as long as 21 months. Meanwhile, Zinser said, the agency must work to prevent another potential data gap that could occur if the NPP satellite hasn't finished in-orbit quality control checks before its predecessor, known as NOAA-19, reaches the end of its design life in March 2013. Zinser and NOAA agree that it could take up to 18 months to finish the checks on NPP, which launched in October, which would mean the satellite wouldn't be fully operational until the very end of NOAA-19's design life. "JPSS is a critically important program for the nation and its ability to observe weather and provide data for forecasts, watches and warnings, but it is a program that must overcome years of setbacks," Zinser said.



**Pandemic risk high now – monitoring satellites allows us to mitigate their spread**

**Ford et al ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15) </span>



The scientific community has a relative consensus that epidemic and pandemic disease risks will be exacerbated by environmental changes that destabilize weather patterns, change distribution of vectors, and increase transport and transmission risk. Predictive modeling may lead to improved understanding and potentially prevent future epidemic and pandemic disease. Many respiratory infections are well known as highly climate dependent or seasonal. Although we are not yet able to predict their incidence with great precision, we may well be able to do this in the future. Meningococcal meningitis (caused by Neisseria meningitidis) in Africa is probably the best known example. In the disease-endemic so-called meningitis belt (an area running across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal to Ethiopia), this is classically a dry season disease, which ceases with the beginning of the rainy season, likely as a result of changes in host susceptibility (19). Many other infectious diseases show strong seasonality or association with climatic conditions (20). Perhaps one of the most interesting is influenza, which is thought of as a wintertime disease in temperate climates but shows both winter and summer peaks in subtropical and tropical regions (21). Although the reasons for seasonality are often poorly understood, the close dependence of such diseases on climatic conditions suggests that these, too, are likely to be amenable to prediction by modeling and remote sensing (22). When we consider influenza, it is hard not to think about the future risks from pandemic influenza. Public health agencies in the United States and around the world are focusing on influenza preparedness, notably concerning influenza virus A subtype H5N1, which has captured attention because it causes severe disease and death in humans but as yet has demonstrated only very limited and inefficient human-to-human transmission. The severity of the disease raises images of the 1918 influenza epidemic on an unimaginably vast scale if the virus were to adapt to more efficient human-to-human transmission. Can predictive modeling using satellite or other imaging of environmental variables help in prediction of future influenza pandemics? Xiangming Xiao at the University of New Hampshire was funded in 2006 by the National Institutes for Health to lead a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional team to use remote satellite imaging to track avian flu. Xiao et al. have used satellite image–derived vegetation indices to map paddy rice agriculture in southern Asia (23). They believe that a similar approach can be used in conjunction with the more traditional approach of analyzing bird migration patterns and poultry production (24,25) to map potential hot spots of virus transmission (26). An interesting question is why did we not see disease epidemics in Indonesia, following the devastating tsunami disaster of December 2004? Could rapid public health intervention be credited with minimizing spread of disease? In the case of Aceh Province, many communities reported diarrhea as the main cause of illness (in 85% of children <5 years of age), but no increases in deaths were reported, and no outbreaks of cholera or other potentially epidemic diseases occurred (27). Given the massive scale of the disaster, was this likely? In some towns, more than two thirds of the population died at the time of impact, almost 100% of homes were destroyed, and 100% of the population lacked access to clean water and sanitation (27). To a large extent, the Australian army and other groups are to be credited with rapidly deploying environmental health teams to swiftly implement public health measures, including provision of safe drinking water, proper sanitary facilities, and mosquito control measures (28). Widespread fecal pollution of the surface waters was shown, yet the saltiness of the potable water supply after the disaster made much of the water unpalatable. Wells were vulnerable, perhaps to other etiologic agents of fecal origin including viruses and Shigella spp., with greater probability of infection than Vibrio spp., thus leading to the widespread diarrhea. The most important lesson from the Asian tsunami is that disease epidemics can be prevented by public health intervention. Unfortunately, most flooding events, and other conditions that promote infectious disease epidemics, do not receive the same global media attention. A tsunami captures the imagination of the world in a way that weeks of rainfall in the Sudan or a rise in sea surface temperature cannot. However, if climatologic data can be used to predict future disease outbreaks, public health interventions can be mobilized in a more timely and proactive manner. A continuing concern is the conditions that result in newly emergent virulent strains of pathogens. Faruque et al. have provided molecular evidence that V. cholerae O139 strains are derived from O1 strains through genetic modification (29). In addition, Chakraborty et al. in Kolkata have seen the presence and expression of virulence genes in several environmental strains of V. cholerae cultured from surface waters (30). Recently, E. coli O157 has been isolated from the Ganges River in India for the first time (31). Indications are that it is metabolically different from E. coli O157 isolated from other parts of the world, but the conditions that have led to these differences are as yet unclear. From the above studies, risk for transmission of virulence genes is likely to be high, but studies of conditions promoting transmission and approaches to modeling resultant disease risks are in their infancy. New epidemic strains could potentially occur through mutation of existing epidemic strains or through gene transfer. Environmental stressors such as chemical contaminants are thought to accelerate both mutation rates and gene transfer (32). Thus, the degree of chemical pollution may need to be a component of disease models (in addition to other stressors). The scientific community is a long way from incorporating environment-gene interactions into predictive models and clarifying the risks posed to human society from emerging diseases. However, investigation of these parts of the pathogen's ecology should remain on the national research agenda as we move forward with developing predictive models of disease outbreaks. Current modeling of infectious diseases is by necessity retrospective. Environmental parameters measured by remote satellite imaging show the greatest promise for providing global coverage of changing environmental conditions. With current imaging technologies, we can measure sea surface temperature, sea surface height, chlorophyll A levels, and a variety of vegetation and soil indices, in addition to many other physical, biologic, and chemical parameters of the earth's surface and atmosphere. A variety of these parameters can be incorporated in complex mathematical models, together with biotic and ecologic variables of the pathogen and host life cycles, to correlate environment with outbreaks of disease (Figure 2). However, we are still far from being able to accurately predict future disease events on the basis of existing environmental conditions. Successful predictive modeling of disease and the establishment of early warning systems have reached a critical junction in development. As we improve our understanding of the biology and ecology of the pathogen, vectors, and hosts, our ability to accurately link environmental variables, particularly those related to climate change, will improve. What has become clear over the past few years is that satellite imaging can play a critical role in disease prediction and, therefore, inform our response to future outbreaks. We conclude that infectious disease events may be closely linked to environmental and global change. Satellite imaging may be critical for effective disease prediction and thus future mitigation of epidemic and pandemic diseases. We cannot stress too strongly our belief that a strong global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.



**It leads to extinction**



**Greger ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael,M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States (“ Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching”, 2008, [[http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111]])</span>

Senate Majority Leader Frist describes the recent slew of emerging diseases in almost biblical terms: “All of these [new diseases] were advance patrols of a great army that is preparing way out of sight.”3146 Scientists like Joshua Lederberg don’t think this is mere rhetoric. He should know. Lederberg won the Nobel Prize in medicine at age 33 for his discoveries in bacterial evolution. Lederberg went on to become president of Rockefeller University. “Some people think I am being hysterical,” he said, referring to pandemic influenza, “but there are catastrophes ahead. We live in evolutionary competition with microbes—bacteria and viruses. There is no guarantee that we will be the survivors.”3147 There is a concept in host-parasite evolutionary dynamics called the Red Queen hypothesis, which attempts to describe the unremitting struggle between immune systems and the pathogens against which they fight, each constantly evolving to try to outsmart the other.3148 The name is taken from Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking Glass in which the Red Queen instructs Alice, “Now, here, you see, it takes all the running you can do to keep in the same place.”3149 Because the pathogens keep evolving, our immune systems have to keep adapting as well just to keep up. According to the theory, animals who “stop running” go extinct. So far our immune systems have largely retained the upper hand, but the fear is that given the current rate of disease emergence, the human race is losing the race.3150 In a Scientific American article titled, “Will We Survive?,” one of the world’s leading immunologists writes: Has the immune system, then, reached its apogee after the few hundred million years it had taken to develop? Can it respond in time to the new evolutionary challenges? These perfectly proper questions lack sure answers because we are in an utterly unprecedented situation [given the number of newly emerging infections].3151 The research team who wrote Beasts of the Earth conclude, “Considering that bacteria, viruses, and protozoa had a more than two-billion-year head start in this war, a victory by recently arrived Homo sapiens would be remarkable.”3152 Lederberg ardently believes that emerging viruses may imperil human society itself. Says NIH medical epidemiologist David Morens, When you look at the relationship between bugs and humans, the more important thing to look at is the bug. When an enterovirus like polio goes through the human gastrointestinal tract in three days, its genome mutates about two percent. That level of mutation—two percent of the genome—has taken the human species eight million years to accomplish. So who’s going to adapt to whom? Pitted against that kind of competition, Lederberg concludes that the human evolutionary capacity to keep up “may be dismissed as almost totally inconsequential.”3153 To help prevent the evolution of viruses as threatening as H5N1, the least we can do is take away a few billion feathered test tubes in which viruses can experiment, a few billion fewer spins at pandemic roulette. The human species has existed in something like our present form for approximately 200,000 years. “Such a long run should itself give us confidence that our species will continue to survive, at least insofar as the microbial world is concerned. Yet such optimism,” wrote the Ehrlich prize-winning former chair of zoology at the University College of London, “might easily transmute into a tune whistled whilst passing a graveyard.”3154



**And it will be perceived as a bioterror attack**

**Stern ‘3** Jessica is a Lecturer in Public Policy at Harvard (“Dreaded Risks and the Control of Biological Weapons”, Winter 2002/2003 __International Security__ 27.3, pp. 89-123)

A particularly frightening aspect of biological warfare or terrorism is that it may be difficult to distinguish from a natural outbreak. Although discerning natural from unnatural outbreaks proceeds more rapidly than in the past, suspicions and fears resulting from such outbreaks can still occur. After Cuba suffered an epidemic of dengue hemorrhagic fever in 1981, it accused the United States of biological aggression. In 1997 Cuba made another allegation of biological warfare, charging that the United States had dropped crop-eating pests from a low-flying plane. 41 When West Nile encephalitis was first diagnosed in New York in the summer of 1999, CIA officials reportedly speculated that the virus, which had never been seen in the Western Hemisphere, might have been deliberately introduced. 42 Ultimately, the CDC concluded that the outbreak was not deliberate. But the difficulty of identifying the virus and its origin, exacerbated by the lack of communication between public health officials and the veterinary community, illustrates the complexity of distinguishing a BW attack from a natural outbreak of disease. This difficulty will grow as urbanization, crowding, travel, poverty, and misuse of antibiotics continue to increase the incidence of infectious diseases once thought to be under control. On the rare occasions when biological weapons were used or accidentally released, scientists and government officials often first assumed that the epidemics were natural outbreaks. For instance, when 751 people in Oregon became infected with salmonella in 1984, public health authorities suspected a natural outbreak, not bioterrorism. A year later, an unrelated law-enforcement investigation revealed that the Rajneeshee cult had deliberately spread pathogens causing the disease. 43 And when Robert Stevens, an avid outdoorsman and a photo editor for the supermarket tabloid The Sun, was found to have contracted anthrax, Florida State health officials initially attributed the source of the disease to a naturally occurring strain of the bacteria found in some soils. 44 Terrorists have yet to employ successfully biological agents to carry out mass casualty attacks. Most incidents to date have involved readily available and easily deployed food-borne pathogens, resulting in relatively few casualties. Although the perpetrator of the fall 2001 attacks used a highly sophisticated powder, the letters in the envelopes identified the material as anthrax and warned recipients to seek treatment, suggesting that the intention was not to kill people. This could change if a state chose to sponsor a biological attack or if a group managed to secure assistance from former government scientists. Moreover, as aerosolization technologies continue to improve, high-casualty biological attacks will become easier to carry out.



**Leads to nuclear US backlash**

**Conley ‘3** Henry W. is Chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements (Air and Space Power Journal, “Assessing US Policy for Retaliating to a Chemical or Biological Attack”, March 5, 2003, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)

The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be the most important variable in determining the nature of the US reprisal. A key question here is how many Americans would have to be killed to prompt a massive response by the United States. The bombing of marines in Lebanon, the Oklahoma City bombing, and the downing of Pan Am Flight 103 each resulted in a casualty count of roughly the same magnitude (150–300 deaths). Although these events caused anger and a desire for retaliation among the American public, they prompted no serious call for massive or nuclear retaliation. The body count from a single biological attack could easily be one or two orders of magnitude higher than the casualties caused by these events. Using the rule of proportionality as a guide, one could justifiably debate whether the United States should use massive force in responding to an event that resulted in only a few thousand deaths. However, what if the casualty count was around 300,000? Such an unthinkable result from a single CBW incident is not beyond the realm of possibility: “According to the U.S. Congress Office of Technology Assessment, 100 kg of anthrax spores delivered by an efficient aerosol generator on a large urban target would be between two and six times as lethal as a one megaton thermo-nuclear bomb.”46 Would the deaths of 300,000 Americans be enough to trigger a nuclear response? In this case, proportionality does not rule out the use of nuclear weapons. Besides simply the total number of casualties, the types of casualties- predominantly military versus civilian- will also affect the nature and scope of the US reprisal action. Military combat entails known risks, and the emotions resulting from a significant number of military casualties are not likely to be as forceful as they would be if the attack were against civilians. World War II provides perhaps the best examples for the kind of event or circumstance that would have to take place to trigger a nuclear response. A CBW event that produced a shock and death toll roughly equivalent to those arising from the attack on Pearl Harbor might be sufficient to prompt a nuclear retaliation. President Harry Truman’s decision to drop atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki- based upon a calculation that up to one million casualties might be incurred in an invasion of the Japanese homeland47- is an example of the kind of thought process that would have to occur prior to a nuclear response to a CBW event. Victor Utgoff suggests that “if nuclear retaliation is seen at the time to offer the best prospects for suppressing further CB attacks and speeding the defeat of the aggressor, and if the original attacks had caused severe damage that had outraged American or allied publics, nuclear retaliation would be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made.”



**Only satellite technology solves**



**John ‘10** Mariel is a research analyst for the Space Foundation (December, “Solutions From Space: Disease + Pandemic Early Warning”, [[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1700287138|__http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1700287138__]])

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Millions of people die every year from preventable diseases, such as malaria and cholera. Pandemics put the world population at risk and have the potential to kill thousands and cripple the global economy. In light of these dangers, it is important to make use of technologies that can help address these issues. The data and imagery gathered by environmental remote sensing satellites can be used to develop models that predict areas at risk for disease outbreaks. These early warnings can help decision makers undertake preventive and control measures. There are already many Earth observing satellites with the ability to provide relevant data and imagery. Researchers have created models based on this information, and some are already being used. The Space Foundation believes these capabilities should be further developed and supported by governments and international organizations to benefit as many people as possible. To understand the benefits and challenges of space-based disease early warning models, it is useful to understand how they are developed. A number of steps must be taken for satellite data and imagery to be used to prevent disease outbreaks; each requires a variety of inputs and may include a range of experts and other stakeholders. Disease + Environmental Factors: The Links Remote sensing satellites cannot directly detect disease outbreaks but they are able to detect a wide range of environmental factors, such as ground water, vegetation, or flooding.1 Before a model can be developed, an association must be found between environmental factors and the ecology of the disease agent or host. This is usually possible for vectorborne diseases, in which a third party, or vector, is necessary to transmit the disease. Malaria, which is spread by mosquitoes, provides a good example. Mosquitoes breed in water, so they are often more prevalent when there is a greater amount of surface water. Increased amounts of surface water or rainfall, which can be detected by remote sensing satellites, represent a possible predictor for an outbreak of malaria in regions where the disease is known to exist.2 These models are more effective when they integrate other data sources that help to identify multiple links between environmental factors and a disease. In addition, some models incorporate the biological process of susceptibility, exposure, infection, and recovery. This requires an understanding of what causes people to be particularly vulnerable to a particular disease, the ways in which people come into contact with the disease, the process by which the infection affects the body, and the process of recovery.3 It is also important for these models to include information about the region being studied, often referred to as geospatial information. For example, predictions of areas at risk of outbreak should take into account the population density throughout the region. If an area likely to have many mosquitoes is also near a village, there is a higher risk of a malaria outbreak than would be the case for a very sparsely populated area. Once these associations have been identified, historical data is used to demonstrate that there is a correlation between the environmental factors and disease outbreaks. In addition to the satellite imagery and population data, it is necessary to gather epidemiological data, including information about when and where outbreaks have occurred in the past, in order to validate the connection. This data can be difficult to acquire, particularly for rural areas or in developing countries. Because of the wide range of environmental factors that could affect the spread of disease in different areas, it is necessary to have data representing as much of the area of interest as possible. This first step, which includes identifying and validating links between diseases and environmental factors, is usually carried out by researchers either in academia or government.5 </span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**Contention 2 is Climate**



**Warming is inevitable for the next 1,000 years – even total emission elimination can’t check**



**Solomon et al ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) (Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences of the United States of America, "Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases", October 26, 2010 Vol 107.43: 18354-18359)</span>

Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the course of the 20th century due to human activities. The human-caused increases in these gases are the primary forcing that accounts for much of the global warming of the past fifty years, with carbon dioxide being the most important single radiative forcing agent (1). Recent studies have shown that the human-caused warming linked to carbon dioxide is nearly irreversible for more than 1,000 y, even if emissions of the gas were to cease entirely (2–5). The importance of the ocean in taking up heat and slowing the response of the climate system to radiative forcing changes has been noted in many studies (e.g., refs. 6 and 7). The key role of the ocean’s thermal lag has also been highlighted by recent approaches to proposed metrics for comparing the warming of different greenhouse gases (8, 9). Among the observations attesting to the importance of these effects are those showing that climate changes caused by transient volcanic aerosol loading persist for more than 5 y (7, 10), and a portion can be expected to last more than a century in the ocean (11–13); clearly these signals persist far longer than the radiative forcing decay timescale of about 12–18 mo for the volcanic aerosol (14, 15). Thus the observed climate response to volcanic events suggests that some persistence of climate change should be expected even for quite short-lived radiative forcing perturbations. It follows that the climate changes induced by short-lived anthropogenic greenhouse gases such as methane or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may not decrease in concert with decreases in concentration if the anthropogenic emissions of those gases were to be eliminated. In this paper, our primary goal is to show how different processes and timescales contribute to determining how long the climate changes due to various greenhouse gases could be expected to remain if anthropogenic emissions were to cease. Advances in modeling have led to improved AtmosphereOcean General Circulation Models (AOGCMs) as well as to Earth Models of Intermediate Complexity (EMICs). Although a detailed representation of the climate system changes on regional scales can only be provided by AOGCMs, the simpler EMICs have been shown to be useful, particularly to examine phenomena on a global average basis. In this work, we use the Bern 2.5CC EMIC (see Materials and Methods and SI Text), which has been extensively intercompared to other EMICs and to complex AOGCMs (3, 4). It should be noted that, although the Bern 2.5CC EMIC includes a representation of the surface and deep ocean, it does not include processes such as ice sheet losses or changes in the Earth’s albedo linked to evolution of vegetation. However, it is noteworthy that this EMIC, although parameterized and simplified, includes 14 levels in the ocean; further, its global ocean heat uptake and climate sensitivity are near the mean of available complex models, and its computed timescales for uptake of tracers into the ocean have been shown to compare well to observations (16). A recent study (17) explored the response of one AOGCM to a sudden stop of all forcing, and the Bern 2.5CC EMIC shows broad similarities in computed warming to that study (see Fig. S1), although there are also differences in detail. The climate sensitivity (which characterizes the long-term absolute warming response to a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations) is 3 °C for the model used here. Our results should be considered illustrative and exploratory rather than fully quantitative given the limitations of the EMIC and the uncertainties in climate sensitivity. Results One Illustrative Scenario to 2050. In the absence of mitigation policy, concentrations of the three major greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide can be expected to increase in this century. If emissions were to cease, anthropogenic CO2 would be removed from the atmosphere by a series of processes operating at different timescales (18). Over timescales of decades, both the land and upper ocean are important sinks. Over centuries to millennia, deep oceanic processes become dominant and are controlled by relatively well-understood physics and chemistry that provide broad consistency across models (see, for example, Fig. S2 showing how the removal of a pulse of carbon compares across a range of models). About 20% of the emitted anthropogenic carbon remains in the atmosphere for many thousands of years (with a range across models including the Bern 2.5CC model being about 19 4% at year 1000 after a pulse emission; see ref. 19), until much slower weathering processes affect the carbonate balance in the ocean (e.g., ref. 18). Models with stronger carbon/climate feedbacks than the one considered here could display larger and more persistent warmings due to both CO2 and non-CO2 greenhouse gases, through reduced land and ocean uptake of carbon in a warmer world. Here our focus is not on the strength of carbon/climate feedbacks that can lead to differences in the carbon concentration decay, but rather on the factors that control the climate response to a given decay. The removal processes of other anthropogenic gases including methane and nitrous oxide are much more simply described by exponential decay constants of about 10 and 114 y, respectively (1), due mainly to known chemical reactions in the atmosphere. In this illustrative study, we do not include the feedback of changes in methane upon its own lifetime (20). We also do not account for potential interactions between CO2 and other gases, such as the production of carbon dioxide from methane oxidation (21), or changes to the carbon cycle through, e.g., methane/ozone chemistry (22). Fig. 1 shows the computed future global warming contributions for carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide for a midrange scenario (23) of projected future anthropogenic emissions of these gases to 2050. Radiative forcings for all three of these gases, and their spectral overlaps, are represented in this work using the expressions assessed in ref. 24. In 2050, the anthropogenic emissions are stopped entirely for illustration purposes. The figure shows nearly irreversible warming for at least 1,000 y due to the imposed carbon dioxide increases, as in previous work. All published studies to date, which use multiple EMICs and one AOGCM, show largely irreversible warming due to future carbon dioxide increases (to within about 0.5 °C) on a timescale of at least 1,000 y (3–5, 25, 26). Fig. 1 shows that the calculated future warmings due to anthropogenic CH4 and N2O also persist notably longer than the lifetimes of these gases. The figure illustrates that emissions of key non-CO2 greenhouse gases such as CH4 or N2O could lead to warming that both temporarily exceeds a given stabilization target (e.g., 2 °C as proposed by the G8 group of nations and in the Copenhagen goals) and remains present longer than the gas lifetimes even if emissions were to cease. A number of recent studies have underscored the important point that reductions of non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions are an approach that can indeed reverse some past climate changes (e.g., ref. 27). Understanding how quickly such reversal could happen and why is an important policy and science question. Fig. 1 implies that the use of policy measures to reduce emissions of short-lived gases will be less effective as a rapid **climate mitigation strategy** than would be thought if based only upon the gas lifetime. Fig. 2 illustrates the factors influencing the warming contributions of each gas for the test case in Fig. 1 in more detail, by showing normalized values (relative to one at their peaks) of the warming along with the radiative forcings and concentrations of CO2 , N2O, and CH4 . For example, about two-thirds of the calculated warming due to N2O is still present 114 y (one atmospheric lifetime) after emissions are halted, despite the fact that its excess concentration and associated radiative forcing at that time has dropped to about one-third of the peak value.



**Environmental stress is the only cause of conflict in the future – massive migration flows are highly likely to cause war – adaptation is key**



**Atapattu ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sumudu is an Associate Director, Global Legal Studies Center, University of Wisconsin Law School, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka (Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, “Global Climate Change: Can Human Rights (and Human Beings) Survive this Onslaught?”, Fall 2008) </span>

While environmental stress has rarely been the sole cause of conflicts in and between states, the intrinsic link between access to resources - particularly water - and conflict is increasingly recognized. Global climate change will exacerbate this problem. Faced with increased temperatures, erosion, desertification, deforestation, flooding, rising sea levels, forest fires, loss of species, and increased incidence of disease, environmental stress may well become the main cause of conflict in the coming years. While wars and conflicts have forced many people to abandon their homes and flee to relatively safe areas, we are now faced with a situation where people may flee their homes for environmental reasons. People who do so have been termed "environmental refugees," and it is estimated that in 1984-1985 some ten million Africans fled their homes due to reasons connected with environmental degradation. n121 Many of these refugees moved across national boundaries thereby increasing tension in the receiving countries. Most receiving countries can barely cope with their own problems and when more people seek access to quickly dwindling resources, conflicts are bound to increase. The World Commission on Environment and Development ("WCED") described the relationship between environmental degradation and conflict as follows: As unsustainable forms of development push individual countries up against environmental limits, major differences in environmental endowment among countries, or variations in stocks of usable land and raw materials, could precipitate and exacerbate international tension and conflict. And competition for use of the global commons, such as ocean fisheries and Antarctica, or for use of more localized common resources in fixed supply, such as rivers and coastal waters, could escalate to the level of international conflict and so threaten international peace and security. n122 If one also considers the inherent injustices in developing countries, prevailing extreme socioeconomic inequality, and corruption and [*62] poverty, the situation becomes bleak indeed. The WCED recognized the link between global warming and conflict as follows: Environmental threats to security are now beginning to emerge on a global scale. The most worrisome of these stem from the possible consequences of global warming... Any such climatic change would quite probably be unequal in its effects, disrupting agricultural systems in areas that provide a large proportion of the world's cereal harvests and perhaps triggering mass population movements in areas where hunger is already endemic. Sea levels may rise during the first half of the next century enough to radically change the boundaries between coastal nations and to change the shapes and strategic importance of international waterways - effects both likely to increase international tension. The climatic and sea-level change are also likely to disrupt the breeding grounds of economically important fish species. Slowing, or adapting to, global warming is becoming an essential task to reduce the risks of conflict.



**Those wars go nuclear**

**Wooldridge 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Frosty, free lance writer, once lectured at Cornell University, 2009 “Humanity galloping toward its greatest crisis in the 21st century” http://www.australia.to/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=10042:humanity-galloping-toward-its-greatest-crisis-in-the-21st-century&catid=125:frosty-wooldridge&Itemid=244</span>



It is clear that most politicians and most citizens do not recognize that returning to “more of the same” is a recipe for promoting the first collapse of a global civilization. The required changes in energy technology, which would benefit not only the environment but also national security, public health, and the economy, would demand a World War II type mobilization -- and even that might not prevent a global climate disaster. Without transitioning away from use of fossil fuels, humanity will move further into an era of resource wars (remember, Africom has been added to the Pentagon’s structure -- and China has noticed), clearly with intent to protect US “interests” in petroleum reserves. The consequences of more resource wars, many likely triggered over water supplies stressed by climate disruption, are likely to include increased unrest in poor nations, a proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, widening inequity within and between nations, **and in the worst (and not unlikely) case, a nuclear war ending civilization**.



**Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy**

**Brown '8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31) </span>

Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate change migrants' vary hugely. In order to persuade policymakers of the need to act and to provide a sound basis for appropriate responses, there is an urgent need for better analysis, better data and better predictions. As early as 1990 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (lPCC) was arguing that the greatest single impact of climate change could be on human migration. So far, the scientific community has focused on establishing the extent and nature of anthropogenic climate change and its impact on our weather systems and coastlines. Much less time and energy; however, have been spent on empirical analysis of the impacts of climate change on human population distribution. Consequently the figures that analysts have produced to date represent little more than well-educated guesswork. This is unsurprising; the science of climate change is complex enough, even before considering its impact on societies with widely differing resources and varied capacities to adapt to external shocks. To assess the future impact of climate change on complex changing communities is to heap prediction upon prediction, multiplying the potential margin of error. Perhaps the best-known estimate for future migration forced by climate was made by Professor Norman Myers of Oxford University: Looking ahead to 2050 he has argued that "when global warming takes hold there could be as many as 200 million people [displaced] by disruptions of monsoon systems and other change (from a predicted global population of nine billion people). Other estimates vary widely in terms of numbers, time frame and causes. In 2005 the UN University’s Institute for Environment and Human Security warned that the international community should prepare for 50 million 'environmental refugees' by 2010. The UN Environment widely cited. But repetition does not make the figure inherently accurate. Professor Myers himself admits that his estimate, although calculated from the best available (and limited) data, required some "heroic extrapolations". The simple fact is that nobody really knows with any degree of precision what climate change will mean for human population distribution. We know that climate change will redraw our coastlines, alter where we can grow food, move where and when we can find water and expose us to fiercer storms or more severe droughts. We know that on current predictions the 'carrying capacity' of large parts of the world - the ability of different ecosystems to provide food, water and shelter for human populations - will be compromised by climate change. Intuitively we know that climate migration is likely to be a serious issue in future. we just don't know how serious. And it is hard to persuade policymakers of its importance without concrete (or at least more sophisticated) figures. The estimates we have so far are no real foundation for an appropriate response either. The challenge now is to better understand how climate change could affect population distribution and then to develop effective ways to address the possible consequences of forced migration, such as social and economic dislocation, delayed development or conflict. For that we need clearer answers to some key questions: How many people are likely to move as a result of climate change? Where are they likely to come from and go to? How much warning will they have? Will they be able to return? Better data on any or all of the questions above will help identify the most vulnerable populations, the regions of greatest concern and the potential effects of climate migration on development and stability: Ultimately better data would move the debate towards the three questions of most relevance to policymakers: Who should be responsible for providing for climate induced migrants? For how long will they typically need support? And how much will it all cost? The problem of prediction Developing more solid predictions will require a lot of hard number crunching that is only now really starting Those predictions are complicated by at least four factors. Disaggregating Causality Migrants’ decisions to leave their homes are influenced by a number of complex factors; deciding causality between economic 'pull' and environmental 'push' is often highly subjective. Disaggregating the role of climate change from other environmental, economic and social factors requires an ambitious analytical step into the dark. In short, deducing cause and effect between climate change and forced migration is very difficult. Eliminating the statistical ‘white noise': Future climate migration will take place against a background of unprecedented changes in the number and distribution of the world's population. The global population is currently growing at an annual rate of 1.1% and is predicted to peak at 9.075 billion by 2050 (from its 2005 level of 6.54 billion). Meanwhile, there is an accelerating move to urban areas. Already more than half of the world's population lives in urban settings and the growth rate of the urban population is nearly double that of total population growth. Clearly it would be absurd to attribute the entire urban drift to climate change but disaggregating the additional role of climate change on existing rural-urban migration is very hard. Dealing with the Lack of Data: Base-line data for current migration flows in many of the developing countries thought to be most vulnerable to climate change are patchy and incomplete. Nor is there much capacity in developing countries or the international community to gather this kind of dam, particularly for internal displacement. Census data rarely include the kind of questions that would give a nuanced understanding of the reasons behind internal population movements. What limited capacity exists is focused on tracking cross-border migration - which only captures a part of the picture, given that the majority of forced climate migrants are likely to stay within their own borders. Factoring in Uncertainty: Finally although climate modeling techniques have progressed dramatically over the past decade, we have not yet developed the modeling techniques that even begin to adequately account for the impact of individual choice, the potential for international action and the variability of future emissions and meteorological scenarios. Towards Better Data: We need more time, effort and energy to be put towards developing a better understanding of future forced migration.



**More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – a US federal policy is key**

**Lewis et al ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>

Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions— the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions.15 Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite.16 Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million,17 which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY.18 The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors.19 The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities.20 Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16.21 Only a coordinated federal policy and investment-, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastrophe are likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.



**Scenario 1 is South Asia**



**Environmental monitoring key to prevent Indo-Pak water tensions and South China Sea conflicts**



**Parthemore and Rogers ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,</span>[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf|__http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

The United States depends on satellite systems for managing the unconventional challenges of the 21st century in ways that are rarely acknowledged. This is particularly true for satellites that monitor climate change and other environmental trends, which, in the words of the Department of Defense’s (DOD’s) 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review, “will shape the operating environment, roles, and missions” of DOD and “may act as an accelerant of instability or conflict, placing a burden to respond on civilian institutions and militaries around the world.” 2 Examples abound of how climate change is shaping the strategic environment and of why the U.S. government needs continued access to earth monitoring data: • The opening of the Arctic is requiring the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard to execute new missions in the High North, including more frequent search and rescue missions. • The receding Himalayan glaciers and related reduced river flows to South Asia may shape the future relationship between India and Pakistan. Defense planners and diplomats will need to monitor changes in the glaciers that supply rivers in Pakistan in order to determine whether access to water will exacerbate existing military and diplomatic tensions between India and Pakistan – states that have longstanding grievances over how they share water. • In the South China Sea, changing ocean conditions are altering fish migration, leading neighboring countries to compete over access to billions of dollars in fish resources; this situation could escalate into serious conflict in contested territorial waters. DOD and development agencies rely on earth monitoring systems to monitor urbanization, migration patterns and internal population displacement. Several government agencies also rely on earth monitoring capabilities to analyze compliance with deforestation and emissions measures in international climate change treaties, just as the government relies on space-based capabilities to monitor and verify compliance with non-proliferation treaties. Responding to environmental and climate change trends requires a steady stream of reliable information from earth monitoring satellites that is quickly becoming unavailable. Ideally, the U.S. government would replace its aging earth monitoring satellites.



**South China Sea conflicts go nuclear**

**Tharoor 9/19**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – TIME reporter, editor of Global Spin, (Ishaan, 2011, "Is This How Wars Start? India and China Now Feud Over the South China Sea," http://globalspin.blogs.time.com/2011/09/19/is-this-how-wars-start-india-and-china-now-feud-over-the-south-china-sea/#disqus_thread, RG)</span>



Last week, one of the world's most intractable disputes got even stickier. News leaked that the international-arm of India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) was in talks with the government of Vietnam over hydrocarbon exploration rights in the South China Sea. In most parts of the world this would seem a routine bi-lateral development between two countries driven by their dynamic economies. But the South China Sea, whose waters are claimed to varying degree by half a dozen countries and almost in full by China, is unlike any body of water in the world, and where an oil company may see opportunity, most others only see a swirling geo-political maelstrom. China and Vietnam have competing territorial claims to the sea and the archipelagoes — uninhabited spits of land and rock, for the most part — sitting at its heart. The long-running dispute flared alarmingly over the summer following confrontations between Chinese and Vietnamese vessels. Adding India to the mix — the only country in Asia that presents something of a challenge to Chinese primacy — can only exacerbate tensions. An editorial in the Chinese state-run Global Times, often a mouthpiece for more hawkish elements among the leadership in Beijing, sternly warned India against “pursuing this course of action.” The editorial went on: India should bear in mind that its actions in the South China Sea will **push China to the limit**. China cherishes the Sino-Indian friendship, but this does not mean China values it above all else… China has been peaceful for so long that some countries doubt whether it will stick to its stated bottom line. China should remind them of how clear this line really is. Invoking dusty imperial records and charts, both Beijing and Hanoi insist upon the “indisputable” nature of their maritime sovereignty. Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, and Malaysia also have overlapping claims. But, given the presence of a potentially vast cache of hydrocarbons below its depths and its strategic value as the main thoroughfare for some of the world's most important shipping lanes, it's not surprising that the South China Sea piques the interests of other powers further afield. Last year, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said resolving the disputes in the South China Sea and ensuring safe passage for international shipping was, for the Americans, a “leading diplomatic priority” — another way of saying that Washington reserves the right to intervene in those waters. India has stepped up its defense ties with Vietnam, winning access to naval ports while helping Hanoi ready a new fleet of submarines. Beijing has been somewhat spooked by such collaboration, not least because of Vietnam's proximity to Hainan, the island province where China's own rapidly modernizing nuclear submarine fleet is housed. According to reports that emerged only this past month, in late July, a Chinese ship attempted to intercept an Indian warship, the INS Airavat, off the Vietnamese coast. The Airavat was headed to the Vietnamese port of Haiphong on a routine mission. Earlier, a testy standoff between Chinese naval vessels and Vietnamese ships exploring for oil kicked off a summer of simmering tensions. India and China share a long, heavily militarized (and also disputed) land border across the spine of the Himalayas. But while differences there have been more or less frozen for decades across a glacial expanse, the threat of confrontations at sea may prove far more unpredictable. Gwynne Dyer, a veteran Asia hand, writes: You can attack a land border if you really want to, but it is a very big decision with incalculable consequences: a declaration of war, in effect. Even the most arrogant or paranoid governments will think long and hard before embarking on such an action, and generally they end up by deciding not to do it. Whereas at sea, **you can easily drift into a serious military confrontation that neither side intended.** And the possible scenarios for (inadvertent) Sino-Indian naval conflict will only mushroom over time. After all, India's tentative wading into the South China Sea follows a steady drum beat of Chinese projects across the Indian Ocean rim around India — what some have dubbed the “string of pearls.” According to some Indian strategists, China has set up naval facilities and listening posts from Burma to Pakistan, with a strategic, deep-sea port at Hambantota, Sri Lanka, in between. Therefore, writes Harsh Pant, an international affairs scholar at King's College, London, India should play the same game. He writes: India is right to forcefully reject Chinese claims of sovereignty over the entire South China Sea. It should now build credible strategic partnerships with other regional states to prevent a Chinese regional dominance that will undermine Indian and regional security interests. On one level, such thinking makes plenty of sense: as rising powers neither India nor China should compromise their own interests to placate the oft-illusory fears of the other. But, despite the strength of the two countries' economic ties and the paeans to their friendship that frequently emanate from both capitals, few doubt that the rise of India and China will lead to friction. Neighbors in a complicated region, they are bound to bump up against each other. And when the two nuclear-armed nations that comprise nearly a third of humanity do bump, **the stakes will be high — and the fallout potentially incalculable.**



**Water scarcity is the biggest internal link to Indo-Pak nuclear conflict**

**Brennan '8** James is s Principle Contracting Officer for the Navy's Integrated Weapons Systems Team. His leadership and innovation in developing performance type contract coverage has been recognized by a DON Procurement Excellence Award (2000), two DON Meritorious Civilian Service awards (1998, 2003) and the Secretary of Defense Award for PBL Excellence (2005). (Naval Postgraduate School, "The China-India-Pakistan Water Crisis: Prospects for Interstate Conflict", September 2008, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA488648&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])

The first key part of the treaty involves the division of the Indus River system. This system consists of three eastern rivers – the Sutlej, the Beas and the Ravi, and three western rivers – the Indus, the Jhelum and the Chenab. The treaty gave India exclusive rights to the three eastern rivers up to the point where they enter Pakistan. At the same time, Pakistan was given exclusive rights to the western rivers.117 The second key aspect was the creation of the Indus Commission. This commission was created to adjudicate future disputes over the allocation of water and required annual meetings to discuss any potential problems.118 Despite the treaty’s success over the past decades, India and Pakistan have experienced numerous disputes over modifications to the rivers – some of which remain unsettled. The increasing need to maintain a steady flow of water for survival and the recent rise in disagreements over aspects of the treaty raise the question of whether the treaty is still adequate. In addition, the acquisition of nuclear weapons by both India and Pakistan raises the stakes in any serious dispute over these rivers. India and Pakistan must review the treaty and update it where appropriate. Otherwise, the historical success of the treaty may come to an end. E. NUCLEAR NATIONS Like China’s acquisition of the bomb, India and Pakistan’s evolution into regional nuclear powers changed the stakes of total war forever. These declared nuclear states will now have to carefully weigh every decision to wage war. In particular, the perception that India directly threatens the survivability of Pakistan may convince Pakistan to use nuclear weapons as a last resort. In fact, the nuclear doctrines of India and Pakistan paint a scary picture that supports the possibility of nuclear exchange if certain red lines are crossed. India’s nuclear doctrine is much different from Pakistan’s. The National Security Advisory Board published India’s draft doctrine in 1999. India, unlike Pakistan, does not have any stated nuclear red lines. In fact, it proclaims a retaliatory, no first-use policy with the goal of nuclear deterrence.119 Therefore, concern arises from the possibility of a nuclear strike from Pakistan. If initiated, the outcome of a nuclear volley would be catastrophic, leaving the countries devastated and regional security in shambles. Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine is shrouded in secrecy. However, there are a number of public statements by senior Pakistani officials that help clarify the picture. Major General Khalid Kidwai, in a late 2000 interview, illuminated critical elements of Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine. First and foremost, it is obvious that Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine is directed at India. Second, he plainly laid out the red lines that, if crossed, would cause Pakistan to use nuclear weapons against India. These scenarios include the loss of a large part of Pakistan’s territory, destruction of a large part of Pakistan’s military, economic strangulation, or other attempts to politically destabilize Pakistan.120 The looming tensions over water resources highlight the importance of the economic strangulation red line. This red line seems to be the most likely to be crossed; however, it is important to note that this red line reportedly consists of two parts – stemming the water from the Indus River and simultaneously blockading key Pakistani ports. However, it is unknown whether Pakistan will wait until both are accomplished. If it perceives that India is posing a clear and present danger to its survival as a state, it may resort to the use of nuclear weapons.



**Water tensions are high now- regional coop and data sharing is key**

**ANN 12/30** Asian News Network (Asian News Network and Dawn, “Himalayan Waters”, December 30, 2011, [[http://www.asianewsnet.net/home/news.php?sec=3&id=25727]])

Climate change is one thing and the lack of cooperation between affected countries quite another. Pakistan points the finger of blame at India, while others in the region are also suffering on account of no clear-cut policy on how Himalayan waters are to be shared and conserved. Accords and treaties may have been signed but they are not always respected, much to the detriment of the people of the region. Today the Himalayan glaciers are melting and the result is deadly deluges that are claiming lives and ruining livelihoods in a manner that can cause cyclical poverty that could make each generation more distressed than the last. In the following decades, however, we may be facing extreme shortages of water on account of global warming and the eventual disappearance of glaciers. **Action has to be taken, and soon**, as the Abu Dhabi Dialogue Group pointed out recently. A meeting between the concerned countries in Asia will reportedly take place next month. The World Bank, too, is working on this front. The major stakeholders in this battle for survival include Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Afghanistan, Bhutan, China and Nepal. Common sense and a proactive attitude concerning the betterment of the world need to prevail in this dire situation, as opposed to the politics of nationalism. In addition to glacier melt, rising sea levels are also cause for serious concern. It has been estimated that nearly 1.5 billion people live in river basins in our part of the world, and they are expected to be hit hard by climate change that could induce unusual precipitation as well as drought in areas that were once fertile. As stated earlier, regional cooperation is the key here because sharing data, irrespective of nationality and cross-border friction, is of the essence.



**Even a limited Indo-Pak nuclear exchange leads to extinction**

**Robock and Toon '10** Alan is professor of climatology and associate director of Center for Environmental Prediction, Rutgers University, Owen Brian is hair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences and fellow of the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder (Scientific American, "Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering", January 2010, Vol 302.1)

Worry has focused on the U.S. versus Russia, but a regional nuclear war between India and Pakistan could blot out the sun, starving much of the human race. Twenty-five years ago international teams of scientists showed that a nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union could produce a "nuclear winter." The smoke from vast fires started by bombs dropped on cities and industrial areas would envelop the planer and absorb so much sunlight that the earth's surface would get cold, dark and dry, killing plants worldwide and eliminating our food supply. Surface temperatures would reach winter values in the summer. International discussion about this prediction, fueled largely by astronomer Carl Sagan, forced the leaders of the two superpowers to confront the possibility that their arms race endangered not just themselves but the entire human race. Countries large and small demanded disarmament. Nuclear winter became an important factor in ending the nuclear arms race. Looking back later, in 2000, former Soviet Union leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev observed, "Models made by Russian and American scientists showed that a nuclear war would result in a nuclear winter that would be extremely destructive to all life on earth; the knowledge of that was a great stimulus to us, to people of honor and morality, to act." Why discuss this topic now that the cold war has ended? Because as other nations continue to acquire nuclear weapons, smaller, regional nuclear wars could create a similar global catastrophe. New analyses reveal that a conflict between India and Pakistan, for example, in which 100 nuclear bombs were dropped on cities and industrial areas--only 0.4 percent of the world's more than 25,000 warheads--would produce enough smoke to cripple global agriculture. A regional war could cause widespread loss of life even in countries far away from the conflict. Regional War Threatens the World By deploying modern computers and modern climate models, the two of us and our colleagues have shown that not only were the ideas of the 1980s correct but the effects would last for at least 10 years, much longer than previously thought. And by doing calculations that assess decades of time, only now possible with fast, current computers, and by including in our calculations the oceans and the entire atmosphere--also only now possible--we have found that the smoke from even a regional war would be heated and lofted by the sun and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth. India and Pakistan, which together have more than 100 nuclear weapons, may be the most worrisome adversaries capable of a regional nuclear conflict today. But other countries besides the U.S. and Russia (which have thousands) are well endowed: China, France and the U.K. have hundreds of nuclear warheads; Israel has more than 80, North Korea has about 10 and Iran may well be trying to make its own. In 2004 this situation prompted one of us (Toon) and later Rich Turco of the University of California, Los Angeles, both veterans of the 1980s investigations, to begin evaluating what the global environmental effects of a regional nuclear war would be and to take as our test case an engagement between India and Pakistan. The latest estimates by David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security and by Robert S. Norris of the Natural Resources Defense Council are that India has 50 to 60 assembled weapons (with enough plutonium for 100) and that Pakistan has 60 weapons. Both countries continue to increase their arsenals. Indian and Pakistani nuclear weapons tests indicate that the yield of the warheads would be similar to the 15-kiloton explosive yield (equivalent to 15,000 tons of TNT) of the bomb the U.S. used on Hiroshima. Toon and Turco, along with Charles Bardeen, now at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, modeled what would happen if 50 Hiroshima-size bombs were dropped across the highest population-density targets in Pakistan and if 50 similar bombs were also dropped across India. Some people maintain that nuclear weapons would be used in only a measured way. But in the wake of chaos, fear and broken communications that would occur once a nuclear war began, we doubt leaders would limit attacks in any rational manner. This likelihood is particularly true for Pakistan, which is small and could be quickly overrun in a conventional conflict. Peter R. Lavoy of the Naval Postgraduate School, for example, has analyzed the ways in which a conflict between India and Pakistan might occur and argues that Pakistan could face a decision to use all its nuclear arsenal quickly before India swamps its military bases with traditional forces. Obviously, we hope the number of nuclear targets in any future war will be zero, but policy makers and voters should know what is possible. Toon and Turco found that more than 20 million people in the two countries could die from the blasts, fires and radioactivity--a horrible slaughter. But the investigators were shocked to discover that a tremendous amount of smoke would be generated, given the megacities in the two countries, assuming each fire would burn the same area that actually did burn in Hiroshima and assuming an amount of burnable material per person based on various studies. They calculated that the 50 bombs exploded in Pakistan would produce three teragrams of smoke, and the 50 bombs hitting India would generate four (one teragram equals a million metric tons). Satellite observations of actual forest fires have shown that smoke can be lofted up through the troposphere (the bottom layer of the atmosphere) and sometimes then into the lower stratosphere (the layer just above, extending to about 30 miles). Toon and Turco also did some "back of the envelope" calculations of the possible climate impact of the smoke should it enter the stratosphere. The large magnitude of such effects made them realize they needed help from a climate modeler. It turned out that one of us (Robock) was already working with Luke Oman, now at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, who was finishing his Ph.D. at Rutgers University on the climatic effects of volcanic eruptions, and with Georgiy L. Stenchikov, also at Rutgers and an author of the first Russian work on nuclear winter. They developed a climate model that could be used fairly easily for the nuclear blast calculations. Robock and his colleagues, being conservative, put five teragrams of smoke into their modeled upper troposphere over India and Pakistan on an imaginary May 15. The model calculated how winds would blow the smoke around the world and how the smoke particles would settle out from the atmosphere. The smoke covered all the continents within two weeks. The black, sooty smoke absorbed sunlight, warmed and rose into the stratosphere. Rain never falls there, so the air is never cleansed by precipitation; particles very slowly settle out by falling, with air resisting them. Soot particles are small, with an average diameter of only 0.1 micron (μm), and so drift down very slowly. They also rise during the daytime as they are heated by the sun, repeatedly delaying their elimination. The calculations showed that the smoke would reach far higher into the upper stratosphere than the sulfate particles that are produced by episodic volcanic eruptions. Sulfate particles are transparent and absorb much less sunlight than soot and are also bigger, typically 0.5 μm. The volcanic particles remain airborne for about two years, but smoke from nuclear fires would last a decade.



**Scenario 2 is the Arctic**



**Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change**



**Rogers and Gulledge 10** , Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. (Center for New American Security, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April

2010,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])



The Arctic Change in the Arctic will present significant challenges for the national security community, as summer ice coverage shrinks and increases access to and navigation of the High North. Competition for resources and commercial shipping are two potential challenges, with particular consequences for DOD. In particular, the Department is assessing how to manage the Arctic; three combatant commands – U.S. European, Pacific, and Northern Commands – currently have responsibility for the area. Meanwhile, access to potential mineral and energy resources will increase international activity in the Arctic and will likely require monitoring by and coordination among interagency actors such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Departments of Defense, Energy, Homeland Security, Interior, State and the national intelligence community. The question of when the Arctic will become ice-free is a significant uncertainty that makes it difficult to plan platforms, force structure and major expenditures. The national security community needs a more robust understanding of climate changes in the region in order to develop environmental assessments that will inform near- and long-term planning in the Arctic. Climate change will likely exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, water scarcity and extreme weather events in the United States and around the world, with significant implications for national and global security. These changes could increase the need for humanitarian and disaster relief, as well as threats to security emanating from already weak or failing states. DOD is currently studying locations where climate change could worsen trends such as drought and increased frequency and intensity of storms. DOD recognizes the need to better understand where these trends will be most acute in order to prepare for possible U.S. military deployments to provide humanitarian and disaster assistance, as well as to prepare the military for possible climate-induced flashpoints.5 National security professionals, and the military in particular, have a vested interest in understanding how climate change could affect the operating environment in regions where they have personnel, infrastructure and equipment. For instance, changes in the operating environment have the potential to interfere with or incapacitate military installations and equipment vital to mission effectiveness (i.e., the military’s ability to complete its missions), including training ranges, forward operating bases and military aircraft, vehicles and personnel. While understanding climate science is and will continue to be essential to the national security community, the implications of not integrating climate science into regular decision making processes should not be overstated. The U.S. government, and in particular the national security community, is resilient and capable of operating under uncertainty and adapting to change. But adapting in response to, rather than in advance of, projected climatic changes would likely be less effective and more costly in both economic and human terms. The military, development and diplomatic communities may require long lead times to develop new capabilities, strategies and trained personnel – and position them appropriately – for the future security environment. If these communities do not integrate climate science into their decision making today, they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges.



**Tensions uniquely high now over Arctic resources**

**Conely 12/23** Heather is the director of the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former deputy assistant secretary of state. (Washington Post, “The colder war: U.S., Russia and others are vying for control of Santa’s back yard”, December 23, 2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-colder-war-us-russia-and-others-are-vying-for-control-of-santas-back-yard/2011/12/20/gIQAWBc7DP_story.html]])

In April, President Obama signed a new command plan that gives NORAD and the U.S. Northern Command greater responsibility in protecting the North Pole and U.S. Arctic territory. The Arctic region — covering more than 30 million square kilometers and stretching around the territorial borders of Canada, Denmark (via Greenland), Norway, Russia and the United States by way of the Alaskan coastline — is transforming before our eyes. And not just because the ice is melting. It’s increasingly the site of military posturing, and the United States isn’t keeping up with the rest of the world. In 2009, Norway moved its operational command to its northern territories above the Arctic Circle. Russia has plans to establish a brigade that is specially equipped and prepared for military warfare in Arctic conditions. Denmark has made it a strategic priority to form an Arctic Command. Canada is set to revitalize its Arctic fleet, including spending $33 billion to build 28 vessels over the next 30 years. Even China has entered the Arctic race; it constructed the world’s largest non-nuclear icebreaker to conduct scientific research in the Arctic. September marked the lowest recorded levels of sea ice in the Northern Polar Region. The polar ice cap today is 40 percent smaller than it was in 1979, and in the summer of 2007 alone, 1 million more square miles of ice beyond the average melted, uncovering an area of open water six times the size of California. As quickly as the polar ice cap recedes, commercial opportunities in the resource-rich Arctic advance. The Arctic is governed by the U.N. convention on the Law of the Sea. That framework allows a coastal state to have exclusive economic control 200 miles off its coast — and possibly to extend authority 600 miles beyond, depending on certain scientific claims. In the 21st-century Arctic, large corporations and countries are racing to reach and capture the abundance of offshore oil and gas as well as iron ore, nickel, cooper, palladium and rare-earth minerals. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that the Arctic contains 13 percent of the world’s undiscovered oil resources and 30 percent of its gas resources. And as the ice melts, cargo transport could increase from the 111,000 tons in 2010 to more than 1 million tons in 2012, according to some Russian estimates. It’s not just a natural-resources race. Cruise ships take eco-tourists to see the North Pole, stunning Arctic coastline vistas and endangered species such as beluga whales and polar bears — for $24,000 to $35,000 a head. In addition, international scientists search for climate-change clues in Arctic permafrost conditions, ice dynamics and glaciers. Fishing trawlers hunt for lucrative fish stocks. The Arctic has always been a grounds for competition, both over and under the ice. In the early 20th century, it was a race of great explorers and visionaries. The Canadian American Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson, known as the “prophet of the North,” had the foresight to understand the Arctic’s strategic importance and economic potential despite a disastrous expedition. During World War II, the United States rushed to develop supply routes by air and by sea. The country needed to reach the Soviet front and fight off any possible Japanese invasion of Alaska. The Cold War Arctic meant racing to defend against and deter Soviet ballistic nuclear submarines, stealthily patrolling under the Arctic ice, and Soviet strategic bombers flying over it. U.S. security interests in the Arctic today are a dim reflection of that bipolar Cold War era. Yet much of the security infrastructure remaining in Alaska, rusted and largely abandoned, was constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. In the Arctic, the United States has had trouble updating its strategy.



**This instability causes war with Russia and NATO – escalates to nuclear war**

**Staples ‘9** Steven is with the Danish Institute for International Studies (Rideau Institute, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone” August 10, 2009)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 year In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”



**Quickest scenario for extinction**



**Helfand and Pastore 9** (Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.



March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, [[http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]])



President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. They must not let the current economic crisis keep them from focusing on one of the greatest threats confronting humanity: the danger of nuclear war. Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later. Just one of these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes. An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die. Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct. It is common to discuss nuclear war as a low-probabillity event. But is this true? We know of five occcasions during the last 30 years when either the U.S. or Russia believed it was under attack and prepared a counter-attack. The most recent of these near misses occurred after the end of the Cold War on Jan. 25, 1995, when the Russians mistook a U.S. weather rocket launched from Norway for a possible attack. Jan. 25, 1995, was an ordinary day with no major crisis involving the U.S. and Russia. But, unknown to almost every inhabitant on the planet, a misunderstanding led to the potential for a nuclear war. The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.



**Scenario 3 is Yemen**



**Climate change is the determining factor in Yemen instability – only our aff solves**

**Rogers and Gulledge 2010** , Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. (Center for New American Security, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April 2010,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])

The national security community is just beginning to integrate climate change into its analyses and strategies. In June 2008, the NIC produced the first classified assessment of the national security implications of climate change, //The National Intelligence Assessment//  //on the National Security Implications of Global Climate Change to 2030.// In February 2010, the Department of Defense (DOD) responded to a 2008 Congressional requirement to consider “the effect of climate change on Department facilities, capabilities, and mission” by incorpo- rating climate change into the 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). Likewise, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has begun to integrate climate adaptation into its development practices abroad.3 The Department of Homeland Security explicitly stated in its inaugural Quadrennial Homeland Security Review that climate change is a trend that is likely to shape the current and future security environments. As climate science continues to advance and more departments and agencies begin to incorporate climate change into their strategic planning, there will be a growing need for sustained interaction with the climate science community in order to make informed national security policy. Developing more informed national security policies, however, will require clearer lines of communication between climate scientists and national security decision makers to ensure that the national security community has the neces- sary information to prepare for future challenges. Improved communication between these two groups of professionals will also broaden the community of individuals concerned with and engaging on the implications of climate change for national security. Indeed, despite a better understanding of the link between national security and climate change, some national security professionals have yet to fully conceptualize how climate change could impact the areas where they have responsibility, or whether they need to concep- tualize potential implications at all. To give a few concrete examples, Yemen, Pakistan and the Arctic are areas where the implications of climate change may not be fully developed or understood. Yemen: Yemen has recently risen to the top of the national security agenda, with military, for-eign policy and intelligence officers concerned about the strong presence of al Qaeda and the country’s increasing instability. In the coming decades, Yemen’s stability will hinge increas- ingly on its management of natural resources, in particular oil and water. To date the Yemeni government has been able to use its oil wealth, which accounts for approximately 85 percent of its revenue, to assuage an acute water crisis by subsidizing diesel fuel for pumps that extract water out of deep aquifers.4 But dwindling oil production will make water extraction increas- ingly expensive, and inadequate access to water could ultimately undermine the government’s power and legitimacy. By affecting precipita- tion patterns and drought conditions, climate change could exacerbate this acute water crisis and potentially create a situation of absolute water scarcity to which the government is unable to adapt. A better understanding of how climate change may affect these trends by officials at U.S. Central Command, the U.S. embassy in Yemen and the relevant bureau and country desks at the State Department could assist these decision mak- ers in developing strategies to help prevent Yemen from becoming a failed state on par with Somalia, prevent a humanitarian crisis or otherwise mini- mize the negative ramifications of water scarcity.

**Refugee floods from Yemen will destabilize Saudi Arabia – only scenario for major oil shocks**

**LeVine 11** – adjunct professor of energy and security at the School of Securities Studies at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, contributing editor at Foreign Policy magazine, author of The Oil and the Glory (Steve, 03/21, “Back to Saudi's fault lines,” http://oilandglory.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/03/21/back_to_saudis_fault_lines)



The oil balance is back on **precarious** footing. The shift of events in Yemen -- President Ali Abdullah Saleh seems to be spending his final hours or days in office (see defectors above) -- returns instability to Saudi Arabia's doorstep, and with it may push oil prices higher. It's not that Yemen itself produces much oil or natural gas - its production volumes are modest. But its northern border with Saudi is **porous**, and as we've discussed previously, any flow of Yemeni refugees, including armed ones, could destabilize Saudi Arabia. To the east of the kingdom, Saudi forces are helping to tamp down unrest in neighboring Bahrain, but meanwhile face new protests from sympathetic fellow Shias in the city of Qatif, in Saudi's oil-rich Eastern Province. All of this will tempt the trigger fingers of intrepid traders in London and New York. Oil prices have been relatively calm considering the upheavals in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Bahrain and Yemen, not to mention the nuclear crisis in Japan, moving up and down just a few dollars when traders decide they'd like to earn a little money. When prices have moved the most, it has been with an eye on Saudi Arabia, whose **massive** oil reserves and production **underpin** global price stability.



**The impact is great power wars**

**O’Neill 11** – Associate Director in Natural Resources Group, Institutional Bank (Cameron, June, “Towards The Resources End Game,” http://www.thecud.com.au/live/content/towards-resources-end-game)



Governments of the world are showing renewed interest in the resources industry. Recently, what would appear to be boring or routine energy deals have involved heavy diplomatic maneuvering, extensive government effort, and featured country presidents at signing ceremonies. At the same time, large oil consuming countries continue to reliably intervene in regional conflicts that involve oil-rich countries. Governments of course have always shadowed the resources industry, and competition and conflict over resources are nothing new. For centuries, villages, tribes and countries have conflicted over disputed waterways, timber and mineral resources.i The protection of oil resources and transport lines was paramount in both **World Wars** of the 20th Century. Protection of Saudi Arabia’s oil reserves was a serious consideration in the US foreign policy stance of the 20th Century, and also in its decisions to go to war with Iraq in 1990 and 2003. However, against the backdrop of unprecedented growth in global demand for oil and potential future scarcity, government involvement is becoming more explicit and widespread, and governments of **major powers** have flagged that military intervention will be an option to secure supply of this strategic resource. Oil in particular is a highly strategic resource because it is now enmeshed in the very fabric of our **existence**. Few consumer products do not contain or rely on a petroleum product during production and distribution. Consumer services, transport, construction, manufacturing and the military all rely heavily on oil to function. The world’s oil requirement is set to grow, pending no technological breakthrough to yield an alternative.



**Scenario 4 is East Africa**

**East African Migration likely – leads to failed states, violence, and water shortages**

**Podesta and Ogden '8** John is president and CEO of the Center for American Progress (CAP) in Washington, D.C., and was chief of staff for President Bill Clinton. Peter is a senior national security analyst at CAP (The Washington Quarterly, "The Security Implications of Climate Change", Winter 2007-2008, Vol 31.3: 115-138)



The impact of climate change–induced migration will be felt throughout Africa, but its effects on Nigeria and East Africa pose particularly acute geopolitical challenges. This migration will be both internal and international. The ﬁrst domestic wave will likely be from agricultural regions to urban centers where more social services are available, and **the risk of state failure will increase** as central governments lose control over stretches of their territory and their borders. Nigeria will suffer from climate-induced drought, desertiﬁcation, and sealevel rise. Already, approximately 1,350 square miles of Nigerian land turns to desert each year, forcing both farmers and herdsmen to abandon their homes. 15 Lagos, the capital, is one of the West African coastal megacities that the IPCC identiﬁes as at risk from sea-level rise by 2015. 16 This, coupled with high population growth (Nigeria is the most populous nation in Africa, and three-fourths of the population is under the age of 30), will force signiﬁcant migration and contribute to political and economic turmoil. For example, it will exacerbate the existing internal conﬂict over oil production in the Niger Delta. 17 To date, the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has carried out a successful campaign of armed attacks, sabotage, and kidnappings that has forced a shutdown of 25 percent of the country’s oil output. 18 Given that Nigeria is the world’s eighth-largest and Africa’s single-largest oil exporter, this instability is having an impact on the price of oil, and it will have global strategic implications in the coming decades. 19 In addition to the Niger Delta issue, Nigeria must also contend with a Biafran separatist movement in its southeast. The threat of regional conflagration, however, is highest in East Africa because of the concentration of weak or failing states, the numerous unresolved political disputes, and the severe impacts of climate change. Climate change will likely create large fluctuations in the amount of rainfall in East Africa during the next 30 years; a 5–20 percent increase in rainfall during the winter months will cause flooding and soil erosion, while a 5–10 percent decrease in the summer months will cause severe droughts. 20 This will jeopardize the livelihoods of millions of people and the economic capacity of the region, as agriculture constitutes some 40 percent of East Africa’s gross domestic product (GDP) and 80 percent of the population earns a living from agriculture. 21 In Darfur, for instance, water shortages have already led to the desertification of large tracts of farmland and grassland. The fierce competition that emerged between farmers and herdsmen over the remaining arable land combined with simmering ethnic and religious tensions to help ignite the first genocide of the twenty-first century. 22



**Failed states are the most likely scenario for great power conflict**

**Grygiel** **9** - Associate Professor of IR @ Johns Hopkins (Jakub, “Vacuum Wars: The Coming Competition Over Failed States,” American Interest, July/August, http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=622)

Mention “failed states” in an academic seminar or a policy meeting and you will hear a laundry list of tragic problems: poverty, disease, famine, refugees flowing across borders and more. If it is a really gloomy day, you will hear that failed states are associated with terrorism, ethnic cleansing and genocide. This is the conventional wisdom that has developed over the past two decades, and rightly so given the scale of the human tragedies in Bosnia, Somalia and Rwanda, just to mention the most egregious cases of the 1990s. This prevailing view of failed states, however, though true, is also incomplete. Failed states are not only a source of domestic calamities; they are also potentially a source of great power competition that in the past has often led to confrontation, crisis and war. The failure of a state creates a vacuum that, especially in strategically important regions, draws in competitive great-power intervention. This more traditional view of state failure is less prevalent these days, for only recently has the prospect of great power competition over failed “vacuum” states returned. But, clearly, recent events in Georgia—as well as possible future scenarios in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, as well as southeastern Europe, Asia and parts of Africa—suggest that it might be a good time to adjust, really to expand, the way we think about “failed states” and the kinds of problems they can cause. The difference between the prevailing and the traditional view on state failure is not merely one of accent or nuance; it has important policy implications. Intense great power conflict over the spoils of a failed state will demand a fundamentally different set of strategies and skills from the United States. Whereas the response to the humanitarian disasters following state failure tends to consist of peacekeeping and state-building missions, large-scale military operations and swift unilateral action are the most likely strategies great powers will adopt when competing over a power vacuum. On the political level, multilateral cooperation, often within the setting of international institutions, is feasible as well as desirable in case of humanitarian disasters. But it is considerably more difficult, perhaps impossible, when a failed state becomes an arena of great power competition. The prevailing view of failed states is an obvious product of the past two decades—a period in which an entirely new generation of scholars and policymakers has entered their respective professions. A combination of events—the end of the Cold War, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the prostration of states such as Somalia, Rwanda, Haiti and Bosnia, and most importantly the terrorist attacks of September 11—created two interlocked impressions concerning the sources of state failure that are today largely accepted uncritically. The first of these is that weak states have unraveled because of the great powers’ disinterest in them, which has allowed serious domestic problems, ranging from poverty to ethnic and social strife, to degenerate into chaos and systemic governance failure.1 The basic idea here is that the Cold War had a stabilizing effect in several strategic regions where either the United States or the Soviet Union supported recently fashioned states with little domestic legitimacy and cohesion for fear that, if they did not, the rival superpower might gain advantage. Some fortunate Third World neutrals even managed a kind of foreign aid arbitrage, attracting help from both sides. When support from the superpowers ended, many of these states, such as Somalia and Yugoslavia, were torn apart by internal factionalism. The state lacked the money to bribe compliance or to generate a larger economic pie, degenerating rapidly into corruption and violence. The key conclusion: The most egregious and tragic examples of failed states in the 1990s occurred because of great power neglect rather than meddling. The related second impression that post-Cold War events have created is that the main threat posed by failed states starts from within them and subsequently spills over to others. Failed states export threats ranging from crime to drugs to refugees to, most dramatically, global terrorism.2 The lawlessness and violence of such states often spills across borders in the form of waves of refugees, the creation of asylums for criminals and more besides. As the number and severity of failed state cases rose, Western powers reacted much of the time by hoping that the problems arising from the failure of states, even those geographically close to the United States or Europe like Haiti and Bosnia, would remain essentially limited so that internal chaos could simply be waited out. Interventions such as in Somalia, Bosnia or Haiti were driven by a Western public shocked by vivid images of suffering and slaughter rather than by a sense that these collapsed states directly threatened U.S. national security. The 9/11 terrorist attacks against the United States changed the perception that failed states could be safely ignored. The Hobbesian world of a failed state could be distant, but it was also a breeding ground for terrorist networks that could train their foot soldiers, establish logistical bases and plan attacks against distant countries. Failed states suddenly were not only humanitarian disasters but security threats. As Francis Fukuyama observed in 2004, “radical Islamist terrorism combined with the availability of weapons of mass destruction added a major security dimension to the burden of problems created by weak governance.”3 However, 9/11 did not alter the conviction that the main threat posed by failed states stems from endogenous problems and not from a great power competition to fill the vacuum created by their demise. At least in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attacks, there was a naive feeling that the Islamist threat festering in failed or weak states such as Afghanistan was a menace to the international community writ large, and certainly to great powers like Russia and China, as well as the United States. It was therefore assumed that the great powers would cooperate to combat terrorism and not compete with each other for control over failing or failed states. As Stephen David pointed out in these pages, “Instead of living in a world of international anarchy and domestic order, we have international order and domestic anarchy.”4 The solution stemming from such a view of failed states falls under the broad category of “nation-building.” If the main challenge of failed states is internally generated and caused by a collapse of domestic order, then the solution must be to rebuild state institutions and restore authority and order, preferably under some sort of multilateral arrangement that would enhance the legitimacy of what is necessarily an intrusive endeavor. Great powers are expected to cooperate, not compete, to fix failed states. U.S. foreign policy continues to reflect this prevailing view. Then-Director of the Policy Planning staff, Stephen Krasner, and Carlos Pascual, then-Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization at the State Department, wrote in 2005 that, “when chaos prevails, terrorism, narcotics trade, weapons proliferation, and other forms of organized crime can flourish.” Moreover, “modern conflicts are far more likely to be internal, civil matters than to be clashes between opposing countries.”5 The prevailing view of failed states is, to repeat, not wrong, just incomplete—for it ignores the competitive nature of great power interactions. The traditional understanding of power vacuums is still very relevant. Sudan, Central Asia, Indonesia, parts of Latin America and many other areas are characterized by weak and often collapsing states that are increasingly arenas for great power competition. The interest of these great powers is not to rebuild the state or to engage in “nation-building” for humanitarian purposes but to establish a foothold in the region, to obtain favorable economic deals, especially in the energy sector, and to weaken the presence of other great powers. Let’s look at just three possible future scenarios. In the first, imagine that parts of Indonesia become increasingly difficult to govern and are wracked by riots. Chinese minorities are attacked, while pirates prowl sealanes in ever greater numbers. Bejing, pressured by domestic opinion to help the Chinese diaspora, as well as by fears that its seaborne commerce will be interrupted, intervenes in the region. China’s action is then perceived as a threat by Japan, which projects its own power into the region. The United States, India and others then intervene to protect their interests, as well. In the second scenario, imagine that Uzbekistan collapses after years of chronic mismanagement and continued Islamist agitation. Uzbekistan’s natural resources and its strategic value as a route to the Caspian or Middle East are suddenly up for grabs, and Russia and China begin to compete for control over it, possibly followed by other states like Iran and Turkey. In a third scenario, imagine that the repressive government of Sudan loses the ability to maintain control over the state, and that chaos spreads from Darfur outward to Chad and other neighbors. Powers distant and nearby decide to extend their control over the threatened oil fields. China, though still at least a decade away from having serious power projection capabilities, already has men on the ground in Sudan protecting some of the fields and uses them to control the country’s natural resources. These scenarios are not at all outlandish, as recent events have shown. Kosovo, which formally declared independence on February 17, 2008, continues to strain relationships between the United States and Europe, on the one hand, and Serbia and Russia, on the other. The resulting tension may degenerate into violence as Serbian nationalists and perhaps even the Serbian army intervene in Kosovo. It is conceivable then that Russia would support Belgrade, leading to a serious confrontation with the European Union and the United States. A similar conflict, pitting Russia against NATO or the United States alone, or some other alliance of European states, could develop in several post-Soviet regions, from Georgia to the Baltics. Last summer’s war in Georgia, for instance, showed incipient signs of a great power confrontation between Russia and the United States over the fate of a weak state, further destabilized by a rash local leadership and aggressive meddling by Moscow. The future of Ukraine may follow a parallel pattern: Russian citizens (or, to be precise, ethnic Russians who are given passports by Moscow) may claim to be harassed by Ukrainian authorities, who are weak and divided. A refugee problem could then arise, giving Moscow a ready justification to intervene militarily. The question would then be whether NATO, or the United States, or some alliance of Poland and other states would feel the need and have the ability to prevent Ukraine from falling under Russian control. Another example could arise in Iraq. If the United States fails to stabilize the situation and withdraws, or even merely scales down its military presence too quickly, one outcome could be the collapse of the central government in Baghdad. The resulting vacuum would be filled by militias and other groups, who would engage in violent conflict for oil, political control and sectarian revenge. This tragic situation would be compounded if Iran and Saudi Arabia, the two regional powers with the most direct interests in the outcome, entered the fray more directly than they have so far. In sum, there are many more plausible scenarios in which a failed state could become a playground of both regional and great power rivalry, which is why we urgently need to dust off the traditional view of failed states and consider its main features as well as its array of consequences. The traditional view starts from a widely shared assumption that, as nature abhors vacuums, so does the international system. As Richard Nixon once said to Mao Zedong, “In international relations there are no good choices. One thing is sure—we can leave no vacuums, because they can be filled.”6 The power vacuums created by failed states attract the interests of great powers because they are an easy way to expand their spheres of influence while weakening their opponents or forestalling their intervention. A state that decides not to fill a power vacuum is effectively inviting other states to do so, thereby potentially decreasing its own relative power. This simple, inescapable logic is based on the view that international relations are essentially a zero-sum game: My gain is your loss. A failed state creates a dramatic opportunity to gain something, whether natural resources, territory or a strategically pivotal location. The power that controls it first necessarily increases its own standing relative to other states. As Walter Lippmann wrote in 1915, the anarchy of the world is due to the backwardness of weak states; . . . the modern nations have lived in armed peace and collapsed into hideous warfare because in Asia, Africa, the Balkans, Central and South America there are rich territories in which weakness invites exploitation, in which inefficiency and corruption invite imperial expansion, in which the prizes are so great that the competition for them is to the knife.7 The threat posed by failed states, therefore, need not emanate mainly from within. After all, by definition a failed state is no longer an actor capable of conducting a foreign policy. It is a politically inert geographic area whose fate is dependent on the actions of others. The main menace to international security stems from competition between these “others.” As Arnold Wolfers put it in 1951, because of the competitive nature of international relations, “expansion would be sure to take place wherever a power vacuum existed.”8 The challenge is that the incentive to extend control over a vacuum or a failed state is similar for many states. In fact, even if one state has a stronger desire to control a power vacuum because of its geographic proximity, natural resources or strategic location, this very interest spurs other states to seek command over the same territory simply because doing so weakens that state. The ability to deprive a state of something that will give it a substantial advantage is itself a source of power. Hence a failed state suddenly becomes a strategic prize, because it either adds to one’s own power or subtracts from another’s. The prevailing and traditional views of failed states reflect two separate realities. Therefore, we should not restrict ourselves to one view or the other when studying our options. The difference is not just academic; it has very practical consequences. First and foremost, if we take the traditional view, failed states may pose an even greater danger to international security than policymakers and academics currently predict. Humanitarian disasters are certainly tragedies that deserve serious attention; yet they do not pose the worst threats to U.S. security or world stability. That honor still belongs to the possibility of a great power confrontation. While the past decade or so has allowed us to ignore great power rivalries as the main feature of international relations, there is no guarantee that this happy circumstance will continue long into the future.



**Even local violence escalates to great power war**

Caroline B. **Glick**, 12/12/**07** (the senior Middle East fellow at the Center for Security Policy in Washington, D.C., The Center for Security Policy is a non-profit, non-partisan national security organization that specializes in identifying policies, actions, and resource needs that are vital to American security and then ensures that such issues are the subject of both focused, principled examination and effective action by recognized policy experts, appropriate officials, opinion leaders, and the general public, “Condi's African holiday”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.centerforsecuritypolicy.org/home.aspx?sid=56&categoryid=56&subcategoryid=90&newsid=11568]]</span>)

The Horn of Africa is a dangerous and strategically vital place. Small wars, which rage continuously, can easily escalate into big wars. Local conflicts have regional and global aspects. All of the conflicts in this tinderbox, which controls shipping lanes from the Indian Ocean into the Red Sea, can potentially give rise to regional, and indeed global conflagrations between competing regional actors and global powers.



**Only our aff solves**

**Dysart ’11** Mary D. is with the Air War College (Air War College, Air University, “Remote Sensing and Mass Migration Policy Development”, February 16, 2011)

Many indicators that mass migration is imminent or that it has begun are remotely measurable. Imagery obtained from satellites and manned and unmanned aerial reconnaissance systems provides evidence of large-scale human movement by noting changes in historical patterns of population distribution. It is also particularly useful in determining changes in environmental factors—especially those driven by climate change—that provide the impetus for mass migration. In the early 1980s, scientists realized that only remote sensing by satellites could provide overall measurement of gross primary production (GPP) and net primary production (NPP) on a global scale.34 Researchers recommended making GPP and NPP data about conditions within the biosphere available in a manner similar to the provision of weather reports. That information would provide the basis for determining the extent to which an area could support human life and in predicting desertification, deforestation, and the effects of wildfires, pollution, and climate change. The discovery of deterioration in an ecosystem could indicate the need for changes in land management policies. Professor Steven W. Running and others concluded that strategic planners could use long-term trends in NPP to measure regional declines in productive capability. For example, they noted that desertification in sub-Saharan Africa, long presumed to be due to overgrazing, in fact corresponded to precipitation levels. They concluded that only large scale remote sensing could measure changes in vegetation on a regional level and pointed to the value of remotely observing and predicting the runoff of water, which is rapidly becoming the most limited natural resource. Running and his research team emphasized the utility of NPP data in land management, the formulation of environmental policy, and tracking changes in the biosphere.35 Earth observation by satellites can detect potential threats to human security that may spark mass migration such as stressed water resources, adverse agricultural conditions, disease, and climate change. Water Resources As the world‘s population swells and the global mean surface temperature increases,36 the supply of clean, safe water continues to diminish. When temperatures rise, less water is stored in glaciers and snow packs, which currently comprise 68.6 percent of the earth‘s total supply of fresh water and supply water for one-sixth of the world‘s population.37 Bloomberg reported in 10 2006 that ―the lack of usable water worldwide has made it more valuable than oil,‖ since its World Water Index of eleven utilities had returned 35 percent per year since 2003 while oil and gas stocks yielded only 29 percent.38 The American College of Environmental Lawyers reported in January 2010 that the Bloomberg World Water Index had continued to produce larger returns each year than either gas and oil stocks or the Standard & Poor‘s Index.39 Bloomberg also noted that the UN had predicted that by 2050, water deficits would affect in excess of 2 billion people in 48 nations. It further observed that China, which is home to 20 percent of the world‘s population, has access to only 7 percent of its fresh water supply and forecast that between 1995 and 2025, global use of fresh water for drinking, agriculture and industry could increase by 22 percent.40 Scientists use satellites to measure the amount of water in the Amazon River floodplain, enabling them to predict droughts and floods that may result from global climate change.41 A European Space Agency (ESA) project has helped Zambia manage its water shortages. Its multispectral MERIS sensor on Envisat mapped existing water resources and vegetation in the Kafue River Basin and identified potential dam sites. ―IWAREMA [Integrated Water Resource Management for Zambia] was one of the projects initiated under ESA‘s TIGER initiative, launched in 2002 employing space technology to assist African countries to overcome water-related problems and to bridge Africa‘s water information gap using satellite data. To date, more than 100 African water basin authorities, universities and other organizations have become involved in TIGER projects across the continent.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">‖</span>42 The Horn of Africa, an arid to semi-arid region, is subject to frequent droughts. Shortages of rainfall cause recurrent crop failures, which precipitate the starvation that promotes mass migration.


====Emory==== 
Same as the Pace RR minus the Arctic conflict scenario on climate.
====Harvard RR==== 
Contention 1 is Climate

Warming is real – BEST answers all of your indicts
Muller 10/21 Richard is a professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of "Physics for Future Presidents" ( OCTOBER 21, 2011 “The Case Against Global-Warming Skepticism There were good reasons for doubt, until now” (W.W. Norton & Co., 2008) )
Are you a global warming skeptic? There are plenty of good reasons why you might be. As many as 757 stations in the United States recorded net surface-temperature cooling over the past century. Many are concentrated in the southeast, where some people attribute tornadoes and hurricanes to warming. The temperature-station quality is largely awful. The most important stations in the U.S. are included in the Department of Energy's Historical Climatology Network. A careful survey of these stations by a team led by meteorologist Anthony Watts showed that 70% of these stations have such poor siting that, by the U.S. government's own measure, they result in temperature uncertainties of between two and five degrees Celsius or more. We do not know how much worse are the stations in the developing world. Using data from all these poor stations, the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates an average global 0.64ºC temperature rise in the past 50 years, "most" of which the IPCC says is due to humans. Yet the margin of error for the stations is at least three times larger than the estimated warming. We know that cities show anomalous warming, caused by energy use and building materials; asphalt, for instance, absorbs more sunlight than do trees. Tokyo's temperature rose about 2ºC in the last 50 years. Could that rise, and increases in other urban areas, have been unreasonably included in the global estimates? That warming may be real, but it has nothing to do with the greenhouse effect and can't be addressed by carbon dioxide reduction. Moreover, the three major temperature analysis groups (the U.S.'s NASA and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the U.K.'s Met Office and Climatic Research Unit) analyze only a small fraction of the available data, primarily from stations that have long records. There's a logic to that practice, but it could lead to selection bias. For instance, older stations were often built outside of cities but today are surrounded by buildings. These groups today use data from about 2,000 stations, down from roughly 6,000 in 1970, raising even more questions about their selections. On top of that, stations have moved, instruments have changed and local environments have evolved. Analysis groups try to compensate for all this by homogenizing the data, though there are plenty of arguments to be had over how best to homogenize long-running data taken from around the world in varying conditions. These adjustments often result in corrections of several tenths of one degree Celsius, significant fractions of the warming attributed to humans. And that's just the surface-temperature record. What about the rest? The number of named hurricanes has been on the rise for years, but that's in part a result of better detection technologies (satellites and buoys) that find storms in remote regions. The number of hurricanes hitting the U.S., even more intense Category 4 and 5 storms, has been gradually decreasing since 1850. The number of detected tornadoes has been increasing, possibly because radar technology has improved, but the number that touch down and cause damage has been decreasing. Meanwhile, the short-term variability in U.S. surface temperatures has been decreasing since 1800, suggesting a more stable climate. Without good answers to all these complaints, global-warming skepticism seems sensible. But now let me explain why you should not be a skeptic, at least not any longer. Over the last two years, the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature Project has looked deeply at all the issues raised above. I chaired our group, which just submitted four detailed papers on our results to peer-reviewed journals. We have now posted these papers online at www.BerkeleyEarth.org to solicit even more scrutiny. Our work covers only land temperature—not the oceans—but that's where warming appears to be the greatest. Robert Rohde, our chief scientist, obtained more than 1.6 billion measurements from more than 39,000 temperature stations around the world. Many of the records were short in duration, and to use them Mr. Rohde and a team of esteemed scientists and statisticians developed a new analytical approach that let us incorporate fragments of records. By using data from virtually all the available stations, we avoided data-selection bias. Rather than try to correct for the discontinuities in the records, we simply sliced the records where the data cut off, thereby creating two records from one. We discovered that about one-third of the world's temperature stations have recorded cooling temperatures, and about two-thirds have recorded warming. The two-to-one ratio reflects global warming. The changes at the locations that showed warming were typically between 1-2ºC, much greater than the IPCC's average of 0.64ºC. To study urban-heating bias in temperature records, we used satellite determinations that subdivided the world into urban and rural areas. We then conducted a temperature analysis based solely on "very rural" locations, distant from urban ones. The result showed a temperature increase similar to that found by other groups. Only 0.5% of the globe is urbanized, so it makes sense that even a 2ºC rise in urban regions would contribute negligibly to the global average. What about poor station quality? Again, our statistical methods allowed us to analyze the U.S. temperature record separately for stations with good or acceptable rankings, and those with poor rankings (the U.S. is the only place in the world that ranks its temperature stations). Remarkably, the poorly ranked stations showed no greater temperature increases than the better ones. The mostly likely explanation is that while low-quality stations may give incorrect absolute temperatures, they still accurately track temperature changes. When we began our study, we felt that skeptics had raised legitimate issues, and we didn't know what we'd find. Our results turned out to be close to those published by prior groups. We think that means that those groups had truly been very careful in their work, despite their inability to convince some skeptics of that. They managed to avoid bias in their data selection, homogenization and other corrections. Global warming is real. Perhaps our results will help cool this portion of the climate debate. How much of the warming is due to humans and what will be the likely effects? We made no independent assessment of that.

But it’s inevitable for the next 1,000 years – even total emission elimination can’t check

Solomon et al ‘10 Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) (Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences of the United States of America, "Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases", October 26, 2010 Vol 107.43: 18354-18359)
Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the course of the 20th century due to human activities. The human-caused increases in these gases are the primary forcing that accounts for much of the global warming of the past fifty years, with carbon dioxide being the most important single radiative forcing agent (1). Recent studies have shown that the human-caused warming linked to carbon dioxide is nearly irreversible for more than 1,000 y, even if emissions of the gas were to cease entirely (2–5). The importance of the ocean in taking up heat and slowing the response of the climate system to radiative forcing changes has been noted in many studies (e.g., refs. 6 and 7). The key role of the ocean’s thermal lag has also been highlighted by recent approaches to proposed metrics for comparing the warming of different greenhouse gases (8, 9). Among the observations attesting to the importance of these effects are those showing that climate changes caused by transient volcanic aerosol loading persist for more than 5 y (7, 10), and a portion can be expected to last more than a century in the ocean (11–13); clearly these signals persist far longer than the radiative forcing decay timescale of about 12–18 mo for the volcanic aerosol (14, 15). Thus the observed climate response to volcanic events suggests that some persistence of climate change should be expected even for quite short-lived radiative forcing perturbations. It follows that the climate changes induced by short-lived anthropogenic greenhouse gases such as methane or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may not decrease in concert with decreases in concentration if the anthropogenic emissions of those gases were to be eliminated. In this paper, our primary goal is to show how different processes and timescales contribute to determining how long the climate changes due to various greenhouse gases could be expected to remain if anthropogenic emissions were to cease. Advances in modeling have led to improved AtmosphereOcean General Circulation Models (AOGCMs) as well as to Earth Models of Intermediate Complexity (EMICs). Although a detailed representation of the climate system changes on regional scales can only be provided by AOGCMs, the simpler EMICs have been shown to be useful, particularly to examine phenomena on a global average basis. In this work, we use the Bern 2.5CC EMIC (see Materials and Methods and SI Text), which has been extensively intercompared to other EMICs and to complex AOGCMs (3, 4). It should be noted that, although the Bern 2.5CC EMIC includes a representation of the surface and deep ocean, it does not include processes such as ice sheet losses or changes in the Earth’s albedo linked to evolution of vegetation. However, it is noteworthy that this EMIC, although parameterized and simplified, includes 14 levels in the ocean; further, its global ocean heat uptake and climate sensitivity are near the mean of available complex models, and its computed timescales for uptake of tracers into the ocean have been shown to compare well to observations (16). A recent study (17) explored the response of one AOGCM to a sudden stop of all forcing, and the Bern 2.5CC EMIC shows broad similarities in computed warming to that study (see Fig. S1), although there are also differences in detail. The climate sensitivity (which characterizes the long-term absolute warming response to a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations) is 3 °C for the model used here. Our results should be considered illustrative and exploratory rather than fully quantitative given the limitations of the EMIC and the uncertainties in climate sensitivity. Results One Illustrative Scenario to 2050. In the absence of mitigation policy, concentrations of the three major greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide can be expected to increase in this century. If emissions were to cease, anthropogenic CO2 would be removed from the atmosphere by a series of processes operating at different timescales (18). Over timescales of decades, both the land and upper ocean are important sinks. Over centuries to millennia, deep oceanic processes become dominant and are controlled by relatively well-understood physics and chemistry that provide broad consistency across models (see, for example, Fig. S2 showing how the removal of a pulse of carbon compares across a range of models). About 20% of the emitted anthropogenic carbon remains in the atmosphere for many thousands of years (with a range across models including the Bern 2.5CC model being about 19 4% at year 1000 after a pulse emission; see ref. 19), until much slower weathering processes affect the carbonate balance in the ocean (e.g., ref. 18). Models with stronger carbon/climate feedbacks than the one considered here could display larger and more persistent warmings due to both CO2 and non-CO2 greenhouse gases, through reduced land and ocean uptake of carbon in a warmer world. Here our focus is not on the strength of carbon/climate feedbacks that can lead to differences in the carbon concentration decay, but rather on the factors that control the climate response to a given decay. The removal processes of other anthropogenic gases including methane and nitrous oxide are much more simply described by exponential decay constants of about 10 and 114 y, respectively (1), due mainly to known chemical reactions in the atmosphere. In this illustrative study, we do not include the feedback of changes in methane upon its own lifetime (20). We also do not account for potential interactions between CO2 and other gases, such as the production of carbon dioxide from methane oxidation (21), or changes to the carbon cycle through, e.g., methane/ozone chemistry (22). Fig. 1 shows the computed future global warming contributions for carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide for a midrange scenario (23) of projected future anthropogenic emissions of these gases to 2050. Radiative forcings for all three of these gases, and their spectral overlaps, are represented in this work using the expressions assessed in ref. 24. In 2050, the anthropogenic emissions are stopped entirely for illustration purposes. The figure shows nearly irreversible warming for at least 1,000 y due to the imposed carbon dioxide increases, as in previous work. All published studies to date, which use multiple EMICs and one AOGCM, show largely irreversible warming due to future carbon dioxide increases (to within about 0.5 °C) on a timescale of at least 1,000 y (3–5, 25, 26). Fig. 1 shows that the calculated future warmings due to anthropogenic CH4 and N2O also persist notably longer than the lifetimes of these gases. The figure illustrates that emissions of key non-CO2 greenhouse gases such as CH4 or N2O could lead to warming that both temporarily exceeds a given stabilization target (e.g., 2 °C as proposed by the G8 group of nations and in the Copenhagen goals) and remains present longer than the gas lifetimes even if emissions were to cease. A number of recent studies have underscored the important point that reductions of non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions are an approach that can indeed reverse some past climate changes (e.g., ref. 27). Understanding how quickly such reversal could happen and why is an important policy and science question. Fig. 1 implies that the use of policy measures to reduce emissions of short-lived gases will be less effective as a rapid climate mitigation strategy than would be thought if based only upon the gas lifetime. Fig. 2 illustrates the factors influencing the warming contributions of each gas for the test case in Fig. 1 in more detail, by showing normalized values (relative to one at their peaks) of the warming along with the radiative forcings and concentrations of CO2 , N2O, and CH4 . For example, about two-thirds of the calculated warming due to N2O is still present 114 y (one atmospheric lifetime) after emissions are halted, despite the fact that its excess concentration and associated radiative forcing at that time has dropped to about one-third of the peak value.

Environmental stress is the only cause of conflict in the future – massive migration now- only adaptation solves
Conely and Werz '12 Laura is a graduate student in international relations at the University of Chicago and a Research Associate for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress and Michael is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and a public policy scholar with the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and at Harvard (Center for American Progress, "Climate Change, Migration, and Conflict", January 2012, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/pdf/climate_migration.pdf)
Migration adds another layer of complexity to the scenario. In the 21st century the world could see substantial numbers of climate migrants—people displaced by either the slow or sudden onset of the effects of climate change. The United Nations’ recent Human Development Report stated that, worldwide, there are already an estimated 700 million internal migrants—those leaving their homes within their own countries—a number that includes people whose migration is related to climate change and environmental factors. Overall migration across national borders is already at approximately 214 million people worldwide, 6 with estimates of up to 20 million displaced in 2008 alone because of a rising sea level, desertification, and flooding. 7 One expert, Oli Brown of the International Institute for Sustainable Development, predicts a tenfold increase in the current number of internally displaced persons and international refugees by 2050. 8 It is important to acknowledge that there is no consensus on this estimate. In fact there is major disagreement among experts about how to identify climate as a causal factor in internal and international migration. But even though the root causes of human mobility are not always easy to decipher, the policy challenges posed by that movement are real. A 2009 report by the International Organization for Migration produced in cooperation with the United Nations University and the Climate Change, Environment and Migration Alliance cites numbers that range from “200 million to 1 billion migrants from climate change alone, by 2050,” 9 arguing that “environmental drivers of migration are often coupled with economic, social and developmental factors that can accelerate and to a certain extent mask the impact of climate change.” The report also notes that “migration can result from different environmental factors, among them gradual environmental degradation (including desertification, soil and coastal erosion) and natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or tropical storms).” 10 (See box on page 15 for a more detailed definition of climate migrants.) Clearly, then, climate change is expected to aggravate many existing migratory pressures around the world. Indeed associated extreme weather events resulting in drought, floods, and disease are projected to increase the number of sudden humanitarian crises and disasters in areas least able to cope, such as those already mired in poverty or prone to conflict. 11 Conflict This final layer is the most unpredictable, both within nations and transnationally, and will force the United States and the international community to confront climate and migration challenges within an increasingly unstructured local or regional security environment. In contrast to the great power conflicts and the associated proxy wars that marked most of the 20th century, the immediate postCold War decades witnessed a diffusion of national security interests and threats. U.S. national security policy is increasingly integrating thinking about nonstate actors and nontraditional sources of conflict and instability, for example in the fight against Al Qaeda and its affiliated groups. Climate change is among these newly visible issues sparking conflict. But because the direct link between conflict and climate change is unclear, awareness of the indirect links has yet to lead to substantial and sustained action to address its security implications. Still the potential for the changing climate to induce conflict or exacerbate existing instability in some of the world’s most vulnerable regions is now recognized in national security circles in the United States, although research gaps still exists in many places. The climate-conflict nexus was highlighted with particular effect by the current U.S. administration’s security-planning reviews over the past two years, as well as the Center for Naval Analysis, which termed climate change a “threat multiplier,” indicating that it can exacerbate existing stresses and insecurity. 12 The Pentagon’s latest Quadrennial Defense Review also recognized climate change as an “accelerant of instability or conflict,” highlighting the operational challenges that will confront U.S. and partner militaries amid a rising sea level, growing extreme weather events, and other anticipated effects of climate change. 13 The U.S. Department of Defense has even voiced concern for American military installations that may be threatened by a rising sea level. 14 There is also well-developed international analysis on these points. The United Kingdom’s 2010 Defense Review, for example, referenced the security aspects of climate change as an evolving challenge for militaries and policymakers. Additionally, in 2010, the Nigerian government referred to climate change as the “greatest environmental and humanitarian challenge facing the country this century,” demonstrating that climate change is no longer seen as solely scientific or environmental, but increasingly as a social and political issue cutting across all aspects of human development.

Those conflicts go nuclear
Wooldridge 9 (Frosty, free lance writer, once lectured at Cornell University, 2009 “Humanity galloping toward its greatest crisis in the 21st century” http://www.australia.to/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=10042:humanity-galloping-toward-its-greatest-crisis-in-the-21st-century&catid=125:frosty-wooldridge&Itemid=244

It is clear that most politicians and most citizens do not recognize that returning to “more of the same” is a recipe for promoting the first collapse of a global civilization. The required changes in energy technology, which would benefit not only the environment but also national security, public health, and the economy, would demand a World War II type mobilization -- and even that might not prevent a global climate disaster. Without transitioning away from use of fossil fuels, humanity will move further into an era of resource wars (remember, Africom has been added to the Pentagon’s structure -- and China has noticed), clearly with intent to protect US “interests” in petroleum reserves. The consequences of more resource wars, many likely triggered over water supplies stressed by climate disruption, are likely to include increased unrest in poor nations, a proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, widening inequity within and between nations, and in the worst (and not unlikely) case, a nuclear war ending civilization.

Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy
Brown '8 Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31)
Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate change migrants' vary hugely. In order to persuade policymakers of the need to act and to provide a sound basis for appropriate responses, there is an urgent need for better analysis, better data and better predictions. As early as 1990 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (lPCC) was arguing that the greatest single impact of climate change could be on human migration. So far, the scientific community has focused on establishing the extent and nature of anthropogenic climate change and its impact on our weather systems and coastlines. Much less time and energy; however, have been spent on empirical analysis of the impacts of climate change on human population distribution. Consequently the figures that analysts have produced to date represent little more than well-educated guesswork. This is unsurprising; the science of climate change is complex enough, even before considering its impact on societies with widely differing resources and varied capacities to adapt to external shocks. To assess the future impact of climate change on complex changing communities is to heap prediction upon prediction, multiplying the potential margin of error. Perhaps the best-known estimate for future migration forced by climate was made by Professor Norman Myers of Oxford University: Looking ahead to 2050 he has argued that "when global warming takes hold there could be as many as 200 million people [displaced] by disruptions of monsoon systems and other change (from a predicted global population of nine billion people). Other estimates vary widely in terms of numbers, time frame and causes. In 2005 the UN University’s Institute for Environment and Human Security warned that the international community should prepare for 50 million 'environmental refugees' by 2010. The UN Environment widely cited. But repetition does not make the figure inherently accurate. Professor Myers himself admits that his estimate, although calculated from the best available (and limited) data, required some "heroic extrapolations". The simple fact is that nobody really knows with any degree of precision what climate change will mean for human population distribution. We know that climate change will redraw our coastlines, alter where we can grow food, move where and when we can find water and expose us to fiercer storms or more severe droughts. We know that on current predictions the 'carrying capacity' of large parts of the world - the ability of different ecosystems to provide food, water and shelter for human populations - will be compromised by climate change. Intuitively we know that climate migration is likely to be a serious issue in future. we just don't know how serious. And it is hard to persuade policymakers of its importance without concrete (or at least more sophisticated) figures. The estimates we have so far are no real foundation for an appropriate response either. The challenge now is to better understand how climate change could affect population distribution and then to develop effective ways to address the possible consequences of forced migration, such as social and economic dislocation, delayed development or conflict. For that we need clearer answers to some key questions: How many people are likely to move as a result of climate change? Where are they likely to come from and go to? How much warning will they have? Will they be able to return? Better data on any or all of the questions above will help identify the most vulnerable populations, the regions of greatest concern and the potential effects of climate migration on development and stability: Ultimately better data would move the debate towards the three questions of most relevance to policymakers: Who should be responsible for providing for climate induced migrants? For how long will they typically need support? And how much will it all cost? The problem of prediction Developing more solid predictions will require a lot of hard number crunching that is only now really starting Those predictions are complicated by at least four factors. Disaggregating Causality Migrants’ decisions to leave their homes are influenced by a number of complex factors; deciding causality between economic 'pull' and environmental 'push' is often highly subjective. Disaggregating the role of climate change from other environmental, economic and social factors requires an ambitious analytical step into the dark. In short, deducing cause and effect between climate change and forced migration is very difficult. Eliminating the statistical ‘white noise': Future climate migration will take place against a background of unprecedented changes in the number and distribution of the world's population. The global population is currently growing at an annual rate of 1.1% and is predicted to peak at 9.075 billion by 2050 (from its 2005 level of 6.54 billion). Meanwhile, there is an accelerating move to urban areas. Already more than half of the world's population lives in urban settings and the growth rate of the urban population is nearly double that of total population growth. Clearly it would be absurd to attribute the entire urban drift to climate change but disaggregating the additional role of climate change on existing rural-urban migration is very hard. Dealing with the Lack of Data: Base-line data for current migration flows in many of the developing countries thought to be most vulnerable to climate change are patchy and incomplete. Nor is there much capacity in developing countries or the international community to gather this kind of dam, particularly for internal displacement. Census data rarely include the kind of questions that would give a nuanced understanding of the reasons behind internal population movements. What limited capacity exists is focused on tracking cross-border migration - which only captures a part of the picture, given that the majority of forced climate migrants are likely to stay within their own borders. Factoring in Uncertainty: Finally although climate modeling techniques have progressed dramatically over the past decade, we have not yet developed the modeling techniques that even begin to adequately account for the impact of individual choice, the potential for international action and the variability of future emissions and meteorological scenarios. Towards Better Data: We need more time, effort and energy to be put towards developing a better understanding of future forced migration.

More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – a US federal policy is key
Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]
Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions— the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions.15 Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite.16 Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million,17 which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY.18 The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors.19 The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities.20 Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16.21 Only a coordinated federal policy and investment-, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastrophe are likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.

Scenario 1 is South Asia

Environmental monitoring key to prevent Indo-Pak water tensions and South China Sea conflicts

Parthemore and Rogers ‘11 – *Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]</span>)
The United States depends on satellite systems for managing the unconventional challenges of the 21st century in ways that are rarely acknowledged. This is particularly true for satellites that monitor climate change and other environmental trends, which, in the words of the Department of Defense’s (DOD’s) 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review, “will shape the operating environment, roles, and missions” of DOD and “may act as an accelerant of instability or conflict, placing a burden to respond on civilian institutions and militaries around the world.” 2 Examples abound of how climate change is shaping the strategic environment and of why the U.S. government needs continued access to earth monitoring data: • The opening of the Arctic is requiring the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard to execute new missions in the High North, including more frequent search and rescue missions. • The receding Himalayan glaciers and related reduced river flows to South Asia may shape the future relationship between India and Pakistan. Defense planners and diplomats will need to monitor changes in the glaciers that supply rivers in Pakistan in order to determine whether access to water will exacerbate existing military and diplomatic tensions between India and Pakistan – states that have longstanding grievances over how they share water. • In the South China Sea, changing ocean conditions are altering fish migration, leading neighboring countries to compete over access to billions of dollars in fish resources; this situation could escalate into serious conflict in contested territorial waters. DOD and development agencies rely on earth monitoring systems to monitor urbanization, migration patterns and internal population displacement. Several government agencies also rely on earth monitoring capabilities to analyze compliance with deforestation and emissions measures in international climate change treaties, just as the government relies on space-based capabilities to monitor and verify compliance with non-proliferation treaties. Responding to environmental and climate change trends requires a steady stream of reliable information from earth monitoring satellites that is quickly becoming unavailable. Ideally, the U.S. government would replace its aging earth monitoring satellites.

South China Sea conflicts go nuclear
Tharoor 9/19 – TIME reporter, editor of Global Spin, (Ishaan, 2011, "Is This How Wars Start? India and China Now Feud Over the South China Sea," http://globalspin.blogs.time.com/2011/09/19/is-this-how-wars-start-india-and-china-now-feud-over-the-south-china-sea/#disqus_thread, RG)

Last week, one of the world's most intractable disputes got even stickier. News leaked that the international-arm of India's state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) was in talks with the government of Vietnam over hydrocarbon exploration rights in the South China Sea. In most parts of the world this would seem a routine bi-lateral development between two countries driven by their dynamic economies. But the South China Sea, whose waters are claimed to varying degree by half a dozen countries and almost in full by China, is unlike any body of water in the world, and where an oil company may see opportunity, most others only see a swirling geo-political maelstrom. China and Vietnam have competing territorial claims to the sea and the archipelagoes — uninhabited spits of land and rock, for the most part — sitting at its heart. The long-running dispute flared alarmingly over the summer following confrontations between Chinese and Vietnamese vessels. Adding India to the mix — the only country in Asia that presents something of a challenge to Chinese primacy — can only exacerbate tensions. An editorial in the Chinese state-run Global Times, often a mouthpiece for more hawkish elements among the leadership in Beijing, sternly warned India against “pursuing this course of action.” The editorial went on: India should bear in mind that its actions in the South China Sea will push China to the limit. China cherishes the Sino-Indian friendship, but this does not mean China values it above all else… China has been peaceful for so long that some countries doubt whether it will stick to its stated bottom line. China should remind them of how clear this line really is. Invoking dusty imperial records and charts, both Beijing and Hanoi insist upon the “indisputable” nature of their maritime sovereignty. Taiwan, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, and Malaysia also have overlapping claims. But, given the presence of a potentially vast cache of hydrocarbons below its depths and its strategic value as the main thoroughfare for some of the world's most important shipping lanes, it's not surprising that the South China Sea piques the interests of other powers further afield. Last year, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said resolving the disputes in the South China Sea and ensuring safe passage for international shipping was, for the Americans, a “leading diplomatic priority” — another way of saying that Washington reserves the right to intervene in those waters. India has stepped up its defense ties with Vietnam, winning access to naval ports while helping Hanoi ready a new fleet of submarines. Beijing has been somewhat spooked by such collaboration, not least because of Vietnam's proximity to Hainan, the island province where China's own rapidly modernizing nuclear submarine fleet is housed. According to reports that emerged only this past month, in late July, a Chinese ship attempted to intercept an Indian warship, the INS Airavat, off the Vietnamese coast. The Airavat was headed to the Vietnamese port of Haiphong on a routine mission. Earlier, a testy standoff between Chinese naval vessels and Vietnamese ships exploring for oil kicked off a summer of simmering tensions. India and China share a long, heavily militarized (and also disputed) land border across the spine of the Himalayas. But while differences there have been more or less frozen for decades across a glacial expanse, the threat of confrontations at sea may prove far more unpredictable. Gwynne Dyer, a veteran Asia hand, writes: You can attack a land border if you really want to, but it is a very big decision with incalculable consequences: a declaration of war, in effect. Even the most arrogant or paranoid governments will think long and hard before embarking on such an action, and generally they end up by deciding not to do it. Whereas at sea, you can easily drift into a serious military confrontation that neither side intended. And the possible scenarios for (inadvertent) Sino-Indian naval conflict will only mushroom over time. After all, India's tentative wading into the South China Sea follows a steady drum beat of Chinese projects across the Indian Ocean rim around India — what some have dubbed the “string of pearls.” According to some Indian strategists, China has set up naval facilities and listening posts from Burma to Pakistan, with a strategic, deep-sea port at Hambantota, Sri Lanka, in between. Therefore, writes Harsh Pant, an international affairs scholar at King's College, London, India should play the same game. He writes: India is right to forcefully reject Chinese claims of sovereignty over the entire South China Sea. It should now build credible strategic partnerships with other regional states to prevent a Chinese regional dominance that will undermine Indian and regional security interests. On one level, such thinking makes plenty of sense: as rising powers neither India nor China should compromise their own interests to placate the oft-illusory fears of the other. But, despite the strength of the two countries' economic ties and the paeans to their friendship that frequently emanate from both capitals, few doubt that the rise of India and China will lead to friction. Neighbors in a complicated region, they are bound to bump up against each other. And when the two nuclear-armed nations that comprise nearly a third of humanity do bump, the stakes will be high — and the fallout potentially incalculable.

Water scarcity is the biggest internal link to Indo-Pak nuclear conflict
Brennan '8 James is s Principle Contracting Officer for the Navy's Integrated Weapons Systems Team. His leadership and innovation in developing performance type contract coverage has been recognized by a DON Procurement Excellence Award (2000), two DON Meritorious Civilian Service awards (1998, 2003) and the Secretary of Defense Award for PBL Excellence (2005). (Naval Postgraduate School, "The China-India-Pakistan Water Crisis: Prospects for Interstate Conflict", September 2008, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA488648&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
The first key part of the treaty involves the division of the Indus River system. This system consists of three eastern rivers – the Sutlej, the Beas and the Ravi, and three western rivers – the Indus, the Jhelum and the Chenab. The treaty gave India exclusive rights to the three eastern rivers up to the point where they enter Pakistan. At the same time, Pakistan was given exclusive rights to the western rivers.117 The second key aspect was the creation of the Indus Commission. This commission was created to adjudicate future disputes over the allocation of water and required annual meetings to discuss any potential problems.118 Despite the treaty’s success over the past decades, India and Pakistan have experienced numerous disputes over modifications to the rivers – some of which remain unsettled. The increasing need to maintain a steady flow of water for survival and the recent rise in disagreements over aspects of the treaty raise the question of whether the treaty is still adequate. In addition, the acquisition of nuclear weapons by both India and Pakistan raises the stakes in any serious dispute over these rivers. India and Pakistan must review the treaty and update it where appropriate. Otherwise, the historical success of the treaty may come to an end. E. NUCLEAR NATIONS Like China’s acquisition of the bomb, India and Pakistan’s evolution into regional nuclear powers changed the stakes of total war forever. These declared nuclear states will now have to carefully weigh every decision to wage war. In particular, the perception that India directly threatens the survivability of Pakistan may convince Pakistan to use nuclear weapons as a last resort. In fact, the nuclear doctrines of India and Pakistan paint a scary picture that supports the possibility of nuclear exchange if certain red lines are crossed. India’s nuclear doctrine is much different from Pakistan’s. The National Security Advisory Board published India’s draft doctrine in 1999. India, unlike Pakistan, does not have any stated nuclear red lines. In fact, it proclaims a retaliatory, no first-use policy with the goal of nuclear deterrence.119 Therefore, concern arises from the possibility of a nuclear strike from Pakistan. If initiated, the outcome of a nuclear volley would be catastrophic, leaving the countries devastated and regional security in shambles. Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine is shrouded in secrecy. However, there are a number of public statements by senior Pakistani officials that help clarify the picture. Major General Khalid Kidwai, in a late 2000 interview, illuminated critical elements of Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine. First and foremost, it is obvious that Pakistan’s nuclear doctrine is directed at India. Second, he plainly laid out the red lines that, if crossed, would cause Pakistan to use nuclear weapons against India. These scenarios include the loss of a large part of Pakistan’s territory, destruction of a large part of Pakistan’s military, economic strangulation, or other attempts to politically destabilize Pakistan.120 The looming tensions over water resources highlight the importance of the economic strangulation red line. This red line seems to be the most likely to be crossed; however, it is important to note that this red line reportedly consists of two parts – stemming the water from the Indus River and simultaneously blockading key Pakistani ports. However, it is unknown whether Pakistan will wait until both are accomplished. If it perceives that India is posing a clear and present danger to its survival as a state, it may resort to the use of nuclear weapons.

Water tensions are high now- regional coop and data sharing is key
ANN 12/30 Asian News Network (Asian News Network and Dawn, “Himalayan Waters”, December 30, 2011, [[http://www.asianewsnet.net/home/news.php?sec=3&id=25727]])
Climate change is one thing and the lack of cooperation between affected countries quite another. Pakistan points the finger of blame at India, while others in the region are also suffering on account of no clear-cut policy on how Himalayan waters are to be shared and conserved. Accords and treaties may have been signed but they are not always respected, much to the detriment of the people of the region. Today the Himalayan glaciers are melting and the result is deadly deluges that are claiming lives and ruining livelihoods in a manner that can cause cyclical poverty that could make each generation more distressed than the last. In the following decades, however, we may be facing extreme shortages of water on account of global warming and the eventual disappearance of glaciers. Action has to be taken, and soon, as the Abu Dhabi Dialogue Group pointed out recently. A meeting between the concerned countries in Asia will reportedly take place next month. The World Bank, too, is working on this front. The major stakeholders in this battle for survival include Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Afghanistan, Bhutan, China and Nepal. Common sense and a proactive attitude concerning the betterment of the world need to prevail in this dire situation, as opposed to the politics of nationalism. In addition to glacier melt, rising sea levels are also cause for serious concern. It has been estimated that nearly 1.5 billion people live in river basins in our part of the world, and they are expected to be hit hard by climate change that could induce unusual precipitation as well as drought in areas that were once fertile. As stated earlier, regional cooperation is the key here because sharing data, irrespective of nationality and cross-border friction, is of the essence.

Even a limited Indo-Pak nuclear exchange leads to extinction
Robock and Toon '10 Alan is professor of climatology and associate director of Center for Environmental Prediction, Rutgers University, Owen Brian is hair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences and fellow of the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder (Scientific American, "Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering", January 2010, Vol 302.1)
Worry has focused on the U.S. versus Russia, but a regional nuclear war between India and Pakistan could blot out the sun, starving much of the human race. Twenty-five years ago international teams of scientists showed that a nuclear war between the U.S. and the Soviet Union could produce a "nuclear winter." The smoke from vast fires started by bombs dropped on cities and industrial areas would envelop the planer and absorb so much sunlight that the earth's surface would get cold, dark and dry, killing plants worldwide and eliminating our food supply. Surface temperatures would reach winter values in the summer. International discussion about this prediction, fueled largely by astronomer Carl Sagan, forced the leaders of the two superpowers to confront the possibility that their arms race endangered not just themselves but the entire human race. Countries large and small demanded disarmament. Nuclear winter became an important factor in ending the nuclear arms race. Looking back later, in 2000, former Soviet Union leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev observed, "Models made by Russian and American scientists showed that a nuclear war would result in a nuclear winter that would be extremely destructive to all life on earth; the knowledge of that was a great stimulus to us, to people of honor and morality, to act." Why discuss this topic now that the cold war has ended? Because as other nations continue to acquire nuclear weapons, smaller, regional nuclear wars could create a similar global catastrophe. New analyses reveal that a conflict between India and Pakistan, for example, in which 100 nuclear bombs were dropped on cities and industrial areas--only 0.4 percent of the world's more than 25,000 warheads--would produce enough smoke to cripple global agriculture. A regional war could cause widespread loss of life even in countries far away from the conflict. Regional War Threatens the World By deploying modern computers and modern climate models, the two of us and our colleagues have shown that not only were the ideas of the 1980s correct but the effects would last for at least 10 years, much longer than previously thought. And by doing calculations that assess decades of time, only now possible with fast, current computers, and by including in our calculations the oceans and the entire atmosphere--also only now possible--we have found that the smoke from even a regional war would be heated and lofted by the sun and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth. India and Pakistan, which together have more than 100 nuclear weapons, may be the most worrisome adversaries capable of a regional nuclear conflict today. But other countries besides the U.S. and Russia (which have thousands) are well endowed: China, France and the U.K. have hundreds of nuclear warheads; Israel has more than 80, North Korea has about 10 and Iran may well be trying to make its own. In 2004 this situation prompted one of us (Toon) and later Rich Turco of the University of California, Los Angeles, both veterans of the 1980s investigations, to begin evaluating what the global environmental effects of a regional nuclear war would be and to take as our test case an engagement between India and Pakistan. The latest estimates by David Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security and by Robert S. Norris of the Natural Resources Defense Council are that India has 50 to 60 assembled weapons (with enough plutonium for 100) and that Pakistan has 60 weapons. Both countries continue to increase their arsenals. Indian and Pakistani nuclear weapons tests indicate that the yield of the warheads would be similar to the 15-kiloton explosive yield (equivalent to 15,000 tons of TNT) of the bomb the U.S. used on Hiroshima. Toon and Turco, along with Charles Bardeen, now at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, modeled what would happen if 50 Hiroshima-size bombs were dropped across the highest population-density targets in Pakistan and if 50 similar bombs were also dropped across India. Some people maintain that nuclear weapons would be used in only a measured way. But in the wake of chaos, fear and broken communications that would occur once a nuclear war began, we doubt leaders would limit attacks in any rational manner. This likelihood is particularly true for Pakistan, which is small and could be quickly overrun in a conventional conflict. Peter R. Lavoy of the Naval Postgraduate School, for example, has analyzed the ways in which a conflict between India and Pakistan might occur and argues that Pakistan could face a decision to use all its nuclear arsenal quickly before India swamps its military bases with traditional forces. Obviously, we hope the number of nuclear targets in any future war will be zero, but policy makers and voters should know what is possible. Toon and Turco found that more than 20 million people in the two countries could die from the blasts, fires and radioactivity--a horrible slaughter. But the investigators were shocked to discover that a tremendous amount of smoke would be generated, given the megacities in the two countries, assuming each fire would burn the same area that actually did burn in Hiroshima and assuming an amount of burnable material per person based on various studies. They calculated that the 50 bombs exploded in Pakistan would produce three teragrams of smoke, and the 50 bombs hitting India would generate four (one teragram equals a million metric tons). Satellite observations of actual forest fires have shown that smoke can be lofted up through the troposphere (the bottom layer of the atmosphere) and sometimes then into the lower stratosphere (the layer just above, extending to about 30 miles). Toon and Turco also did some "back of the envelope" calculations of the possible climate impact of the smoke should it enter the stratosphere. The large magnitude of such effects made them realize they needed help from a climate modeler. It turned out that one of us (Robock) was already working with Luke Oman, now at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, who was finishing his Ph.D. at Rutgers University on the climatic effects of volcanic eruptions, and with Georgiy L. Stenchikov, also at Rutgers and an author of the first Russian work on nuclear winter. They developed a climate model that could be used fairly easily for the nuclear blast calculations. Robock and his colleagues, being conservative, put five teragrams of smoke into their modeled upper troposphere over India and Pakistan on an imaginary May 15. The model calculated how winds would blow the smoke around the world and how the smoke particles would settle out from the atmosphere. The smoke covered all the continents within two weeks. The black, sooty smoke absorbed sunlight, warmed and rose into the stratosphere. Rain never falls there, so the air is never cleansed by precipitation; particles very slowly settle out by falling, with air resisting them. Soot particles are small, with an average diameter of only 0.1 micron (μm), and so drift down very slowly. They also rise during the daytime as they are heated by the sun, repeatedly delaying their elimination. The calculations showed that the smoke would reach far higher into the upper stratosphere than the sulfate particles that are produced by episodic volcanic eruptions. Sulfate particles are transparent and absorb much less sunlight than soot and are also bigger, typically 0.5 μm. The volcanic particles remain airborne for about two years, but smoke from nuclear fires would last a decade.

Scenario 2 is Yemen

Climate change is the determining factor in Yemen instability- only the plan solves
Rogers and Gulledge 2010 , Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. (Center for New American Security, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April 2010,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])
The national security community is just beginning to integrate climate change into its analyses and strategies. In June 2008, the NIC produced the first classified assessment of the national security implications of climate change, //The National Intelligence Assessment//  //on the National Security Implications of Global Climate Change to 2030.// In February 2010, the Department of Defense (DOD) responded to a 2008 Congressional requirement to consider “the effect of climate change on Department facilities, capabilities, and mission” by incorpo- rating climate change into the 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). Likewise, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has begun to integrate climate adaptation into its development practices abroad.3 The Department of Homeland Security explicitly stated in its inaugural Quadrennial Homeland Security Review that climate change is a trend that is likely to shape the current and future security environments. As climate science continues to advance and more departments and agencies begin to incorporate climate change into their strategic planning, there will be a growing need for sustained interaction with the climate science community in order to make informed national security policy. Developing more informed national security policies, however, will require clearer lines of communication between climate scientists and national security decision makers to ensure that the national security community has the neces- sary information to prepare for future challenges. Improved communication between these two groups of professionals will also broaden the community of individuals concerned with and engaging on the implications of climate change for national security. Indeed, despite a better understanding of the link between national security and climate change, some national security professionals have yet to fully conceptualize how climate change could impact the areas where they have responsibility, or whether they need to concep- tualize potential implications at all. To give a few concrete examples, Yemen, Pakistan and the Arctic are areas where the implications of climate change may not be fully developed or understood. Yemen: Yemen has recently risen to the top of the national security agenda, with military, for-eign policy and intelligence officers concerned about the strong presence of al Qaeda and the country’s increasing instability. In the coming decades, Yemen’s stability will hinge increas- ingly on its management of natural resources, in particular oil and water. To date the Yemeni government has been able to use its oil wealth, which accounts for approximately 85 percent of its revenue, to assuage an acute water crisis by subsidizing diesel fuel for pumps that extract water out of deep aquifers.4 But dwindling oil production will make water extraction increas- ingly expensive, and inadequate access to water could ultimately undermine the government’s power and legitimacy. By affecting precipita- tion patterns and drought conditions, climate change could exacerbate this acute water crisis and potentially create a situation of absolute water scarcity to which the government is unable to adapt. A better understanding of how climate change may affect these trends by officials at U.S. Central Command, the U.S. embassy in Yemen and the relevant bureau and country desks at the State Department could assist these decision mak- ers in developing strategies to help prevent Yemen from becoming a failed state on par with Somalia, prevent a humanitarian crisis or otherwise mini- mize the negative ramifications of water scarcity.
Refugee floods from Yemen will destabilize Saudi Arabia – only scenario for major oil shocks
LeVine 11 – adjunct professor of energy and security at the School of Securities Studies at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, contributing editor at Foreign Policy magazine, author of The Oil and the Glory (Steve, 03/21, “Back to Saudi's fault lines,” http://oilandglory.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/03/21/back_to_saudis_fault_lines)

The oil balance is back on precarious footing. The shift of events in Yemen -- President Ali Abdullah Saleh seems to be spending his final hours or days in office (see defectors above) -- returns instability to Saudi Arabia's doorstep, and with it may push oil prices higher. It's not that Yemen itself produces much oil or natural gas - its production volumes are modest. But its northern border with Saudi is porous, and as we've discussed previously, any flow of Yemeni refugees, including armed ones, could destabilize Saudi Arabia. To the east of the kingdom, Saudi forces are helping to tamp down unrest in neighboring Bahrain, but meanwhile face new protests from sympathetic fellow Shias in the city of Qatif, in Saudi's oil-rich Eastern Province. All of this will tempt the trigger fingers of intrepid traders in London and New York. Oil prices have been relatively calm considering the upheavals in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Bahrain and Yemen, not to mention the nuclear crisis in Japan, moving up and down just a few dollars when traders decide they'd like to earn a little money. When prices have moved the most, it has been with an eye on Saudi Arabia, whose massive oil reserves and production underpin global price stability.

The impact is great power wars
O’Neill 11 – Associate Director in Natural Resources Group, Institutional Bank (Cameron, June, “Towards The Resources End Game,” http://www.thecud.com.au/live/content/towards-resources-end-game)

Governments of the world are showing renewed interest in the resources industry. Recently, what would appear to be boring or routine energy deals have involved heavy diplomatic maneuvering, extensive government effort, and featured country presidents at signing ceremonies. At the same time, large oil consuming countries continue to reliably intervene in regional conflicts that involve oil-rich countries. Governments of course have always shadowed the resources industry, and competition and conflict over resources are nothing new. For centuries, villages, tribes and countries have conflicted over disputed waterways, timber and mineral resources.i The protection of oil resources and transport lines was paramount in both World Wars of the 20th Century. Protection of Saudi Arabia’s oil reserves was a serious consideration in the US foreign policy stance of the 20th Century, and also in its decisions to go to war with Iraq in 1990 and 2003. However, against the backdrop of unprecedented growth in global demand for oil and potential future scarcity, government involvement is becoming more explicit and widespread, and governments of major powers have flagged that military intervention will be an option to secure supply of this strategic resource. Oil in particular is a highly strategic resource because it is now enmeshed in the very fabric of our existence. Few consumer products do not contain or rely on a petroleum product during production and distribution. Consumer services, transport, construction, manufacturing and the military all rely heavily on oil to function. The world’s oil requirement is set to grow, pending no technological breakthrough to yield an alternative.


Monitoring
Contention 2 is Military Intervention

Climate satellites aren’t sufficient now
Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]
Until this year, America’s civil space policies—and the budgets that derive from it—were shaped to a considerable degree by the political imperatives of the past and by the romantic fiction of spaceflight. We believe there is a new imperative—climate change—that should take precedence in our national plans for space and that the goal for space spending in the next decade should be to create a robust and adequate Earth observation architecture. There is unequivocal evidence, despite careless mistakes and noisy protests, that Earth’s climate is warming. While the effects and implications of this are subject to speculation, there should be no doubt that the world faces a major challenge. There are important shortfalls in data and analysis needed to manage this challenge. Inadequate data mean that we cannot determine the scope or nature of change in some key areas, such as the melting of Antarctic sea ice. Long-term changes in daily temperature are not adequately understood, in part because of limited observations of atmospheric changes. Our understanding of how some anthropogenic (man-made) influences affect climate change is still incomplete. 1 These shortfalls must be remedied, if only to overcome skepticism and doubt. Climate change now occupies a central place on the global political agenda, and the United States should adjust its space policies to reflect this. Assessing and managing climate change will require taking what has largely been a scientific enterprise and “operationalizing” it. Operationalization means creating processes to provide the data and analysis that governments will need if they are to implement policies and regulations to soften the effects of climate change. Operationalization requires the right kind of data and adequate tools for collecting, analyzing, and disseminating that data in ways that inform decisionmaking at many levels of society. Satellites play a central role in assessing climate change because they can provide a consistent global view, important data, and an understanding of change in important but remote areas. Yet there are relatively few climate satellites—a total of 19, many of which are well past their expected service life. Accidents or failures would expose the fragility of the Earth observation system. 2 We lack the required sensors and instruments for the kinds of measurement that would make predictions more accurate and solutions more acceptable. Weather satellites, which take low-resolution pictures of clouds, forests, and ice caps, are not adequate to the task. NASA builds impressive Earth observation satellites for climate change, but these have been experimental rather than ongoing programs. Climate change poses a dilemma for space policy. The programs needed to manage climate change have been woefully underfunded for decades. The normal practice is to call uncritically for more money for civil space and its three components—planetary exploration, Earth observation, and manned spaceflight. In fact, civil space has been lavishly funded. Since 1989, NASA has received $385 billion, with $189 billion in the last decade. 3 This is more than the space budgets of most other nations combined. The problem is not a lack of money but how it has been spent. The bulk of this money went to NASA’s manned space program. This is a legacy of the Cold War. Manned spaceflight showed that market democracies could surpass scientific socialism. The point has been made. Spaceflight provides prestige, but a long series of miscalculations have left the United States with a fragile and fabulously expensive space transportation system. It will take years to recover, and some goals, such as a voyage to Mars, are simply unachievable absent major breakthroughs in physics and other sciences. If we accept that climate change poses serious risks to regional stability, national security, and economic health, the United States needs to reconsider its funding priorities for civil space. Earth observation is crucial for national security and the economy; manned spaceflight programs provide prestige. The United States must make climate-monitoring satellites its priority for funding if it is serious about managing climate change. In practical terms, this means a reduction in the spending on human spaceflight in order to fund a sustained program of satellite-building to create a robust climate monitoring space system.This is, of course, not an all-or-nothing issue. The United States can fund a range of space programs, manned and unmanned, for exploration and for Earth sciences. It is a question of priorities. Our recommendation is that the funding given to Earth observation should increase, as it is more important now for the national interest to monitor and manage climate change, even if that means a slower pace for other programs, such as manned spaceflight, until a robust Earth observation system has been put in orbit. Having the right data is only part of the challenge. The usefulness of that data depends on the strength of climate models and computing capabilities and our ability to make this information available to decisionmakers and user communities in a useful form. In the United States, these functions could be provided by a strengthened and reorganized interagency climate information structure bolstered by the creation of a National Climate Service, which could aggregate and analyze climate data in ways tailored to support management, policymaking, and the information needs of a broad-based user community.There is also an opportunity for the United States to lead an international effort that takes the many existing collaboration structures—such as the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS)—and operationalizes them. The Global Framework for Climate Services being advocated by the World Meteorological Organization could provide the platform to make climate data more accessible to policymakers. The United States is the nation that is most active in space and the nation with the greatest need to demonstrate responsible leadership. A willingness to cooperate and share will help build America’s global influence. Operationalizing science to manage climate change, building the capacity to acquire the needed information and share it with a wide range of users, and bolstering these capabilities at the international level as a part of a productive engagement strategy in what has so far been a contentious road to international agreement should all be goals for the United States both to address climate change, contribute to solving a global problem, and rebuild U.S. leadership.

Current satellites can’t solve – despite a recent increase, programs are still largely underfunded
Fialka 11 – reporter @ WSJ, Washington Bureau (John J. Fialka and ClimateWire, 11/17/2011, "Weather Data Gap Now Appears Certain", November 17, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=weather-data-gap-now-appears-certain)
A House-Senate deal to fund the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration includes enough cash to stabilize the nation's struggling environmental satellite program, a top agency official said yesterday. A conference agreement released Monday night includes $924 million for NOAA's Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), just shy of the Obama administration's fiscal 2012 request, $1.07 billion. NOAA's deputy undersecretary for operations, Mary Glackin, told a Senate committee yesterday that the funds would help firm up the launch schedule for the program's first satellite and limit a projected gap in weather and climate data. "We are extremely pleased at the conference report that came out and look forward to that being signed into law," Glackin told the Senate Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee. "Given what looks like some certainty in the funding for 2012, at a level that's not perfect but certainly very good, we'll be in a much better position." NOAA received just $382 million for JPSS in fiscal 2011, well below the $910 million it sought. That forced the agency to pare down its workload to preparing one satellite for launch in October and continuing to prepare instruments for its next satellite, now set to launch in early 2017. Playing catch-up without a plan The White House budget request for 2011 included enough money to support roughly 1,600 JPSS staffers, but the agency could only afford to pay about 800 staffers last year because Congress slashed funding for the program. The result is "a nearly 100 percent chance" of a gap in weather and climate data used by NOAA and the military, Glackin said, because the JPSS-1 satellite won't be ready to replace its predecessor, the NPP satellite that launched last month, before it stops functioning. NOAA believes the data gap will begin in late 2016 and last anywhere from 12 to 18 months, depending on how long it takes the agency to complete quality-control checks on the data transmitted from JPSS-1 once the satellite reaches orbit. Now, with the conference deal expected to be approved, and NOAA set to receive about 90 percent of the money it sought for the current budget cycle, "we will begin to add staff up to the level that's projected," Glackin said. That will allow NOAA to begin work on areas it neglected in 2011, including work on the ground system for the NPP satellite and building the body for the program's next satellite. Trying to overcome 'years of setbacks' But the agency is not out of the woods yet, the Commerce Department's inspector general, Todd Zinser, told lawmakers. Zinser said NOAA does not have a final plan to lessen the impact of any data gap that occurs between the time NPP stops working and when JPSS-1 is fully operational, which he said could be as long as 21 months. Meanwhile, Zinser said, the agency must work to prevent another potential data gap that could occur if the NPP satellite hasn't finished in-orbit quality control checks before its predecessor, known as NOAA-19, reaches the end of its design life in March 2013. Zinser and NOAA agree that it could take up to 18 months to finish the checks on NPP, which launched in October, which would mean the satellite wouldn't be fully operational until the very end of NOAA-19's design life. "JPSS is a critically important program for the nation and its ability to observe weather and provide data for forecasts, watches and warnings, but it is a program that must overcome years of setbacks," Zinser said.

Status quo environmental satellite cuts decapitate military weather collection
Ray 1/24 Justin (Spaceflight Now, "Proposed next-generation weather satellites get the ax", January 24, 2012, http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1201/24dwss/)
Complying with the decisions of Congress, the U.S. Air Force has ceased work on the Defense Weather Satellite System that would have been the military's next-generation polar observatory program. Roots of the program stem date to the Clinton Administration's efforts in 1994 to merge the separate weather satellite projects operated independently by NOAA and the Defense Department into one program using shared spacecraft outfitted with advanced instruments. That National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) was supposed to replace the civilian Polar Operational Environmental System (POES) and the Air Force's Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP). But NPOESS was besieged by an ineffective management structure, money woes and long delays, ultimately leading to the outright cancellation by the Obama Administration in 2010. The civil and military weather programs were instructed to go their separate ways in developing the next fleets of satellites. NOAA teamed with NASA to create the Joint Polar Satellite System and the Pentagon would create Defense Weather Satellite System. The civilian system launched a test-bed craft last October from California which was once envisioned as a pathfinder to prove the upgraded instruments for NPOESS. Now, the satellite is the gapfiller until the new NOAA birds get built and launched later this decade. Unlike NOAA that launches its final heritage POES satellite three years ago, the Air Force still has two fresh DMSP weather observatories waiting on the ground to be sent up as needed to replace aging craft in the years to come. The Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act and FY12 Consolidated Appropriations Act effectively cancelled DWSS, and now the Air Force has instructed prime contractor Northrop Grumman Aerospace Systems to halt work on the program. "Today the Air Force Defense Meteorological System Program constellation of satellites continues to provide high-quality and timely weather data to forecasters with two more satellites yet to be launched," the Space and Missile Systems Center said in a statement. It remains to be seen what future program will be developed to replace the DMSP constellation when those remaining satellites expire. The military weather birds orbit 463 nautical miles above the planet to survey the entire globe and help plan air, sea and land operations by military forces deployed around the world. The Air Force has been operating weather satellites for decades. Rejuvenating the constellation with new observatories ensures the continued flow of data for long-term forecasting and real-time inputs to leaders on the battlefield.

These cuts destroy effective force projection and US military intervention
Thompson 11/3 Loren B., Ph.D., is Chief Operating Officer of the Lexington Institute and previously taught at Harvard and Georgetown (Lexington Institute, "Air Force May Cut Weather Satellite, Crippling Future Military Ops", November 3, 2011, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/air-force-may-cut-weather-satellite-crippling-future-military-ops?a=1&c=1171)
Over 2,000 years ago, Chinese strategist Sun Tzu cited the five fundamental factors in warfare on the first page of his seminal treatise, The Art of War. They were (1) morale, (2) weather, (3) terrain, (4) command, and (5) doctrine. If you've ever tried to fly a plane in fog or drive a vehicle through mud, you know why weather was high on the list. Weather can defeat the most worthy causes and the most thoughtful plans if military leaders lack the information needed to cope with its effects. And much of the time, the challenge posed by item three -- terrain -- is greatly influenced by weather conditions. You'd think a military service that has been battling the elements since its earliest days would understand the importance of having timely, precise data about the weather in war zones. But in its capacity as steward for military space, the Air Force is thinking about turning the next-generation Defense Weather Satellite System into a bill-payer -- in other words, delaying or killing the program so the money can be used for other things. If it succeeds, future warfighters may lack the information they need about cloud cover, precipitation, surface conditions, wind and other weather effects to prevail on the battlefield. It pains me to write about this, because I just composed a piece for Space News commending Air Force management of the GPS III development program, and I've written many times about the service's wisdom in sticking with plans for the next generation of missile warning satellites. So this isn't one of those polemics about how the Air Force is letting down the joint community by being too provincial in its priorities. But it is a sad commentary about how budget pressures are forcing military services to make dangerous choices. If the Air Force decides to neglect's Sun Tzu's second fundamental factor of warfare for a generation, that really could have life-or-death consequences for some warfighters. The Chinese apparently still take their ancient strategist's writings seriously. In 2010 Beijing began orbiting a state-of-the-art weather constellation called Fengyun ("wind cloud") that will be able to collect all sorts of precise readings about regional weather conditions in Northeast Asia -- like distinguishing between clouds, dust and ash particles in the air, or determining soil moisture conditions. America's military doesn't have a system that good, and at the rate things are deteriorating in the Pentagon, it may not for decades to come. Instead, the joint force will have to continue relying on a 40-year-old satellite system that still delivers black and white images and can't detect many vital variations in weather conditions. This all gets rather complicated because to get the best weather readings satellites need to orbit close to earth, so they can't just sit above one spot the way communications satellites do. That means to have timely coverage of weather conditions in any given place, you need several satellites per orbit that pass over at the right times of the day. Without the Defense Weather Satellite System, there's a high probability that someday soon gaps will start appearing in the military's ability to monitor local weather conditions. After all, many of the satellites in existing constellations are already operating well beyond their design lives. And even if our patchwork plans continue delivering good coverage, there are certain types of effects vital to military operations we won't be able to monitor or report to the troops in a timely fashion without the new satellites.

Meterological data is key to all aspects of military engagement
AU Space '3 (AU Space Primer, "Weather/Environmental Satellites", July, 23, 2003, Ch. 13)
The importance of meteorological information during a hostile conflict cannot be minimized. Environmental conditions impact all phases of military operations from logistics, to mission planning, to strike execution, to postconflict operations. The timely and reliable relay of environmental data to military planners is critical to the success of any military operation. The DMSP provides this critical information including cloud cover data, ocean surface wind speeds, precipitation information, ocean tides information, sea ice conditions, etc. Cloud cover data are needed to determine weather conditions in data denied and data-sparse regions and to forecast target area weather, theater weather, en route weather (including refueling areas) and recovery weather. Surface and upper-level wind data are used to support all aspects of military operations, such as assessing radioactive fallout conditions, nuclear, biological and chemical weapon effects, movement of weather systems and predicting winds for weapons delivery. These data are required for all aspects of forecasting support to aircraft and paradrop operations. Precipitation information (type, rate) is required to forecast soil moisture, soil trafficability, river stages and flooding conditions that could impact troop and force deployment/employment. Ocean tides information is vital to naval operations for the safe passage in and out of ports, river entrances and for the landing of amphibious craft. Sea ice conditions can have a significant impact on surface/subsurface ship operations. The location of open water areas or areas of thin ice are crucial to submarine surfacing operations, submarine missile launch and penetration by air dropped sonobuoys which are used for detecting submarines. Knowledge of the location and size of icebergs is also imperative for the safe navigation of surface ships and submarines. This information could provide an important advantage over adversaries in submarine and antisubmarine warfare.

Even if hegemonic leadership is impossible, American military engagement is k2 prevent global chaos and extinction – there’s no alternative
Brzezinski, ’12 [Zbigniew Brzezinski, CSIS counselor and trustee and cochair of the CSIS Advisory Board, Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies @ Johns Hopkins University, cochair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus and a member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, recipient of numerous honors and awards. “After America”. Foreign Policy, Jan/Feb 2012. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,1]
Not so long ago, a high-ranking Chinese official, who obviously had concluded that America's decline and China's rise were both inevitable, noted in a burst of candor to a senior U.S. official: "But, please, let America not decline too quickly." Although the inevitability of the Chinese leader's expectation is still far from certain, he was right to be cautious when looking forward to America's demise. For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single preeminent successor -- not even China. International uncertainty, increased tension among global competitors, and even outright chaos would be far more likely outcomes. While a sudden, massive crisis of the American system -- for instance, another financial crisis -- would produce a fast-moving chain reaction leading to global political and economic disorder, a steady drift by America into increasingly pervasive decay or endlessly widening warfare with Islam would be unlikely to produce, even by 2025, an effective global successor. No single power will be ready by then to exercise the role that the world, upon the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, expected the United States to play: the leader of a new, globally cooperative world order. More probable would be a protracted phase of rather inconclusive realignments of both global and regional power, with no grand winners and many more losers, in a setting of international uncertainty and even of potentially fatal risks to global well-being. Rather than a world where dreams of democracy flourish, a Hobbesian world of enhanced national security based on varying fusions of authoritarianism, nationalism, and religion could ensue. The leaders of the world's second-rank powers, among them India, Japan, Russia, and some European countries, are already assessing the potential impact of U.S. decline on their respective national interests. The Japanese, fearful of an assertive China dominating the Asian mainland, may be thinking of closer links with Europe. Leaders in India and Japan may be considering closer political and even military cooperation in case America falters and China rises. Russia, while perhaps engaging in wishful thinking (even schadenfreude) about America's uncertain prospects, will almost certainly have its eye on the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Europe, not yet cohesive, would likely be pulled in several directions: Germany and Italy toward Russia because of commercial interests, France and insecure Central Europe in favor of a politically tighter European Union, and Britain toward manipulating a balance within the EU while preserving its special relationship with a declining United States. Others may move more rapidly to carve out their own regional spheres: Turkey in the area of the old Ottoman Empire, Brazil in the Southern Hemisphere, and so forth. None of these countries, however, will have the requisite combination of economic, financial, technological, and military power even to consider inheriting America's leading role. China, invariably mentioned as America's prospective successor, has an impressive imperial lineage and a strategic tradition of carefully calibrated patience, both of which have been critical to its overwhelmingly successful, several-thousand-year-long history. China thus prudently accepts the existing international system, even if it does not view the prevailing hierarchy as permanent. It recognizes that success depends not on the system's dramatic collapse but on its evolution toward a gradual redistribution of power. Moreover, the basic reality is that China is not yet ready to assume in full America's role in the world. Beijing's leaders themselves have repeatedly emphasized that on every important measure of development, wealth, and power, China will still be a modernizing and developing state several decades from now, significantly behind not only the United States but also Europe and Japan in the major per capita indices of modernity and national power. Accordingly, Chinese leaders have been restrained in laying any overt claims to global leadership. At some stage, however, a more assertive Chinese nationalism could arise and damage China's international interests. A swaggering, nationalistic Beijing would unintentionally mobilize a powerful regional coalition against itself. None of China's key neighbors -- India, Japan, and Russia -- is ready to acknowledge China's entitlement to America's place on the global totem pole. They might even seek support from a waning America to offset an overly assertive China. The resulting regional scramble could become intense, especially given the similar nationalistic tendencies among China's neighbors. A phase of acute international tension in Asia could ensue. Asia of the 21st century could then begin to resemble Europe of the 20th century -- violent and bloodthirsty. At the same time, the security of a number of weaker states located geographically next to major regional powers also depends on the international status quo reinforced by America's global preeminence -- and would be made significantly more vulnerable in proportion to America's decline. The states in that exposed position -- including Georgia, Taiwan, South Korea, Belarus, Ukraine, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Israel, and the greater Middle East -- are today's geopolitical equivalents of nature's most endangered species. Their fates are closely tied to the nature of the international environment left behind by a waning America, be it ordered and restrained or, much more likely, self-serving and expansionist. A faltering United States could also find its strategic partnership with Mexico in jeopardy. America's economic resilience and political stability have so far mitigated many of the challenges posed by such sensitive neighborhood issues as economic dependence, immigration, and the narcotics trade. A decline in American power, however, would likely undermine the health and good judgment of the U.S. economic and political systems. A waning United States would likely be more nationalistic, more defensive about its national identity, more paranoid about its homeland security, and less willing to sacrifice resources for the sake of others' development. The worsening of relations between a declining America and an internally troubled Mexico could even give rise to a particularly ominous phenomenon: the emergence, as a major issue in nationalistically aroused Mexican politics, of territorial claims justified by history and ignited by cross-border incidents. Another consequence of American decline could be a corrosion of the generally cooperative management of the global commons -- shared interests such as sea lanes, space, cyberspace, and the environment, whose protection is imperative to the long-term growth of the global economy and the continuation of basic geopolitical stability. In almost every case, the potential absence of a constructive and influential U.S. role would fatally undermine the essential communality of the global commons because the superiority and ubiquity of American power creates order where there would normally be conflict. None of this will necessarily come to pass. Nor is the concern that America's decline would generate global insecurity, endanger some vulnerable states, and produce a more troubled North American neighborhood an argument for U.S. global supremacy. In fact, the strategic complexities of the world in the 21st century make such supremacy unattainable. But those dreaming today of America's collapse would probably come to regret it. And as the world after America would be increasingly complicated and chaotic, it is imperative that the United States pursue a new, timely strategic vision for its foreign policy -- or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

Intervention is inevitable – it’s only a question of effectiveness
Kagan, ‘11 [Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. “The Price of Power”. The Weekly Standard, Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18. http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3]
Before examining whether this would be a wise strategy, it is important to understand that this really is the only genuine alternative to the one the United States has pursued for the past 65 years. To their credit, Layne and others who support the concept of offshore balancing have eschewed halfway measures and airy assurances that we can do more with less, which are likely recipes for disaster. They recognize that either the United States is actively involved in providing security and stability in regions beyond the Western Hemisphere, which means maintaining a robust presence in those regions, or it is not. Layne and others are frank in calling for an end to the global security strategy developed in the aftermath of World War II, perpetuated through the Cold War, and continued by four successive post-Cold War administrations. At the same time, it is not surprising that none of those administrations embraced offshore balancing as a strategy. The idea of relying on Russia, China, and Iran to jointly “stabilize” the Middle East and Persian Gulf will not strike many as an attractive proposition. Nor is U.S. withdrawal from East Asia and the Pacific likely to have a stabilizing effect on that region. The prospects of a war on the Korean Peninsula would increase. Japan and other nations in the region would face the choice of succumbing to Chinese hegemony or taking unilateral steps for self-defense, which in Japan’s case would mean the rapid creation of a formidable nuclear arsenal. Layne and other offshore balancing enthusiasts, like John Mearsheimer, point to two notable occasions when the United States allegedly practiced this strategy. One was the Iran-Iraq war, where the United States supported Iraq for years against Iran in the hope that the two would balance and weaken each other. The other was American policy in the 1920s and 1930s, when the United States allowed the great European powers to balance one another, occasionally providing economic aid, or military aid, as in the Lend-Lease program of assistance to Great Britain once war broke out. Whether this was really American strategy in that era is open for debate—most would argue the United States in this era was trying to stay out of war not as part of a considered strategic judgment but as an end in itself. Even if the United States had been pursuing offshore balancing in the first decades of the 20th century, however, would we really call that strategy a success? The United States wound up intervening with millions of troops, first in Europe, and then in Asia and Europe simultaneously, in the two most dreadful wars in human history. It was with the memory of those two wars in mind, and in the belief that American strategy in those interwar years had been mistaken, that American statesmen during and after World War II determined on the new global strategy that the United States has pursued ever since. Under Franklin Roosevelt, and then under the leadership of Harry Truman and Dean Acheson, American leaders determined that the safest course was to build “situations of strength” (Acheson’s phrase) in strategic locations around the world, to build a “preponderance of power,” and to create an international system with American power at its center. They left substantial numbers of troops in East Asia and in Europe and built a globe-girdling system of naval and air bases to enable the rapid projection of force to strategically important parts of the world. They did not do this on a lark or out of a yearning for global dominion. They simply rejected the offshore balancing strategy, and they did so because they believed it had led to great, destructive wars in the past and would likely do so again. They believed their new global strategy was more likely to deter major war and therefore be less destructive and less expensive in the long run. Subsequent administrations, from both parties and with often differing perspectives on the proper course in many areas of foreign policy, have all agreed on this core strategic approach. From the beginning this strategy was assailed as too ambitious and too expensive. At the dawn of the Cold War, Walter Lippmann railed against Truman’s containment strategy as suffering from an unsustainable gap between ends and means that would bankrupt the United States and exhaust its power. Decades later, in the waning years of the Cold War, Paul Kennedy warned of “imperial overstretch,” arguing that American decline was inevitable “if the trends in national indebtedness, low productivity increases, [etc.]” were allowed to continue at the same time as “massive American commitments of men, money and materials are made in different parts of the globe.” Today, we are once again being told that this global strategy needs to give way to a more restrained and modest approach, even though the indebtedness crisis that we face in coming years is not caused by the present, largely successful global strategy. Of course it is precisely the success of that strategy that is taken for granted. The enormous benefits that this strategy has provided, including the financial benefits, somehow never appear on the ledger. They should. We might begin by asking about the global security order that the United States has sustained since Word War II—the prevention of major war, the support of an open trading system, and promotion of the liberal principles of free markets and free government. How much is that order worth? What would be the cost of its collapse or transformation into another type of order? Whatever the nature of the current economic difficulties, the past six decades have seen a greater increase in global prosperity than any time in human history. Hundreds of millions have been lifted out of poverty. Once-backward nations have become economic dynamos. And the American economy, though suffering ups and downs throughout this period, has on the whole benefited immensely from this international order. One price of this success has been maintaining a sufficient military capacity to provide the essential security underpinnings of this order. But has the price not been worth it? In the first half of the 20th century, the United States found itself engaged in two world wars. In the second half, this global American strategy helped produce a peaceful end to the great-power struggle of the Cold War and then 20 more years of great-power peace. Looked at coldly, simply in terms of dollars and cents, the benefits of that strategy far outweigh the costs. The danger, as always, is that we don’t even realize the benefits our strategic choices have provided. Many assume that the world has simply become more peaceful, that great-power conflict has become impossible, that nations have learned that military force has little utility, that economic power is what counts. This belief in progress and the perfectibility of humankind and the institutions of international order is always alluring to Americans and Europeans and other children of the Enlightenment. It was the prevalent belief in the decade before World War I, in the first years after World War II, and in those heady days after the Cold War when people spoke of the “end of history.” It is always tempting to believe that the international order the United States built and sustained with its power can exist in the absence of that power, or at least with much less of it. This is the hidden assumption of those who call for a change in American strategy: that the United States can stop playing its role and yet all the benefits that came from that role will keep pouring in. This is a great if recurring illusion, the idea that you can pull a leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over. Much of the present debate, it should be acknowledged, is not about the defense budget or the fiscal crisis at all. It is only the latest round in a long-running debate over the nature and purposes of American foreign policy. At the tactical level, some use the fiscal crisis as a justification for a different approach to, say, Afghanistan. Richard Haass, for instance, who has long favored a change of strategy from “counterinsurgency” to “counterterrorism,” now uses the budget crisis to bolster his case—although he leaves unclear how much money would be saved by such a shift in strategy. At the broader level of grand strategy, the current debate, though revived by the budget crisis, can be traced back a century or more, but its most recent expression came with the end of the Cold War. In the early 1990s, some critics, often calling themselves “realists,” expressed their unhappiness with a foreign policy—first under George H.W. Bush and then under Bill Clinton—that cast the United States as leader of a “new world order,” the “indispensable nation.” As early as 1992, Robert W. Tucker and David C. Hendrickson assailed President Bush for launching the first Persian Gulf war in response to Saddam Hussein’s invasion and occupation of Kuwait. They charged him with pursuing “a new world role .  .  . required neither by security need nor by traditional conceptions of the nation’s purpose,” a role that gave “military force” an “excessive and disproportionate .  .  . position in our statecraft.” Tucker and Hendrickson were frank enough to acknowledge that, pace Paul Kennedy, the “peril” was not actually “to the nation’s purse” or even to “our interests” but to the nation’s “soul.” This has always been the core critique of expansive American foreign policy doctrines, from the time of the Founders to the present—not that a policy of extensive global involvement is necessarily impractical but that it is immoral and contrary to the nation’s true ideals. Today this alleged profligacy in the use of force is variously attributed to the influence of “neoconservatives” or to those Mearsheimer calls the “liberal imperialists” of the Clinton administration, who have presumably now taken hold of the Obama administration as well. But the critics share a common premise: that if only the United States would return to a more “normal” approach to the world, intervening abroad far less frequently and eschewing efforts at “nation-building,” then this would allow the United States to cut back on the resources it expends on foreign policy. Thanks to Haass’s clever formulation, there has been a great deal of talk lately about “wars of choice” as opposed to “wars of necessity.” Haass labels both the war in Iraq and the war in Afghanistan “wars of choice.” Today, many ask whether the United States can simply avoid such allegedly optional interventions in the future, as well as the occupations and exercises in “nation-building” that often seem to follow. Although the idea of eliminating “wars of choice” appears sensible, the historical record suggests it will not be as simple as many think. The problem is, almost every war or intervention the United States has engaged in throughout its history has been optional—and not just the Bosnias, Haitis, Somalias, or Vietnams, but the Korean War, the Spanish-American War, World War I, and even World War II (at least the war in Europe), not to mention the many armed interventions throughout Latin America and the Caribbean over the course of the past century, from Cuba in 1898 to Panama in 1989. A case can be made, and has been made by serious historians, that every one of these wars and interventions was avoidable and unnecessary. To note that our most recent wars have also been wars of choice, therefore, is not as useful as it seems. In theory, the United States could refrain from intervening abroad. But, in practice, will it? Many assume today that the American public has had it with interventions, and Alice Rivlin certainly reflects a strong current of opinion when she says that “much of the public does not believe that we need to go in and take over other people’s countries.” That sentiment has often been heard after interventions, especially those with mixed or dubious results. It was heard after the four-year-long war in the Philippines, which cost 4,000 American lives and untold Filipino casualties. It was heard after Korea and after Vietnam. It was heard after Somalia. Yet the reality has been that after each intervention, the sentiment against foreign involvement has faded, and the United States has intervened again. Depending on how one chooses to count, the United States has undertaken roughly 25 overseas interventions since 1898: Cuba, 1898 The Philippines, 1898-1902 China, 1900 Cuba, 1906 Nicaragua, 1910 & 1912 Mexico, 1914 Haiti, 1915 Dominican Republic, 1916 Mexico, 1917 World War I, 1917-1918 Nicaragua, 1927 World War II, 1941-1945 Korea, 1950-1953 Lebanon, 1958 Vietnam, 1963-1973 Dominican Republic, 1965 Grenada, 1983 Panama, 1989 First Persian Gulf war, 1991 Somalia, 1992 Haiti, 1994 Bosnia, 1995 Kosovo, 1999 Afghanistan, 2001-present Iraq, 2003-present That is one intervention every 4.5 years on average. Overall, the United States has intervened or been engaged in combat somewhere in 52 out of the last 112 years, or roughly 47 percent of the time. Since the end of the Cold War, it is true, the rate of U.S. interventions has increased, with an intervention roughly once every 2.5 years and American troops intervening or engaged in combat in 16 out of 22 years, or over 70 percent of the time, since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The argument for returning to “normal” begs the question: What is normal for the United States? The historical record of the last century suggests that it is not a policy of nonintervention. This record ought to raise doubts about the theory that American behavior these past two decades is the product of certain unique ideological or doctrinal movements, whether “liberal imperialism” or “neoconservatism.” Allegedly “realist” presidents in this era have been just as likely to order interventions as their more idealistic colleagues. George H.W. Bush was as profligate an intervener as Bill Clinton. He invaded Panama in 1989, intervened in Somalia in 1992—both on primarily idealistic and humanitarian grounds—which along with the first Persian Gulf war in 1991 made for three interventions in a single four-year term. Since 1898 the list of presidents who ordered armed interventions abroad has included William McKinley, Theodore Roose-velt, William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush. One would be hard-pressed to find a common ideological or doctrinal thread among them—unless it is the doctrine and ideology of a mainstream American foreign policy that leans more toward intervention than many imagine or would care to admit. Many don’t want to admit it, and the only thing as consistent as this pattern of American behavior has been the claim by contemporary critics that it is abnormal and a departure from American traditions. The anti-imperialists of the late 1890s, the isolationists of the 1920s and 1930s, the critics of Korea and Vietnam, and the critics of the first Persian Gulf war, the interventions in the Balkans, and the more recent wars of the Bush years have all insisted that the nation had in those instances behaved unusually or irrationally. And yet the behavior has continued. To note this consistency is not the same as justifying it. The United States may have been wrong for much of the past 112 years. Some critics would endorse the sentiment expressed by the historian Howard K. Beale in the 1950s, that “the men of 1900” had steered the United States onto a disastrous course of world power which for the subsequent half-century had done the United States and the world no end of harm. But whether one lauds or condemns this past century of American foreign policy—and one can find reasons to do both—the fact of this consistency remains. It would require not just a modest reshaping of American foreign policy priorities but a sharp departure from this tradition to bring about the kinds of changes that would allow the United States to make do with a substantially a so. There is no great wave of isolationism sweeping the country. There is not even the equivalent of a Patrick Buchanan, who received 3 million votes in the 1992 Republican primaries. Any isolationist tendencies that might exist are severely tempered by continuing fears of terrorist attacks that might be launched from overseas. Nor are the vast majority of Americans suffering from economic calamity to nearly the degree that they did in the Great Depression. Even if we were to repeat the policies of the 1930s, however, it is worth recalling that the unusual restraint of those years was not sufficient to keep the United States out of war. On the contrary, the United States took actions which ultimately led to the greatest and most costly foreign intervention in its history. Even the most determined and in those years powerful isolationists could not prevent it. Today there are a number of obvious possible contingencies that might lead the United States to substantial interventions overseas, notwithstanding the preference of the public and its political leaders to avoid them. Few Americans want a war with Iran, for instance. But it is not implausible that a president—indeed, this president—might find himself in a situation where military conflict at some level is hard to avoid. The continued success of the international sanctions regime that the Obama administration has so skillfully put into place, for instance, might eventually cause the Iranian government to lash out in some way—perhaps by attempting to close the Strait of Hormuz. Recall that Japan launched its attack on Pearl Harbor in no small part as a response to oil sanctions imposed by a Roosevelt administration that had not the slightest interest or intention of fighting a war against Japan but was merely expressing moral outrage at Japanese behavior on the Chinese mainland. Perhaps in an Iranian contingency, the military actions would stay limited. But perhaps, too, they would escalate. One could well imagine an American public, now so eager to avoid intervention, suddenly demanding that their president retaliate. Then there is the possibility that a military exchange between Israel and Iran, initiated by Israel, could drag the United States into conflict with Iran. Are such scenarios so farfetched that they can be ruled out by Pentagon planners? Other possible contingencies include a war on the Korean Peninsula, where the United States is bound by treaty to come to the aid of its South Korean ally; and possible interventions in Yemen or Somalia, should those states fail even more than they already have and become even more fertile ground for al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. And what about those “humanitarian” interventions that are first on everyone’s list to be avoided? Should another earthquake or some other natural or man-made catastrophe strike, say, Haiti and present the looming prospect of mass starvation and disease and political anarchy just a few hundred miles off U.S. shores, with the possibility of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of refugees, can anyone be confident that an American president will not feel compelled to send an intervention force to help? Some may hope that a smaller U.S. military, compelled by the necessity of budget constraints, would prevent a president from intervening. More likely, however, it would simply prevent a president from intervening effectively. This, after all, was the experience of the Bush administration in Iraq and Afghanistan. Both because of constraints and as a conscious strategic choice, the Bush administration sent too few troops to both countries. The results were lengthy, unsuccessful conflicts, burgeoning counterinsurgencies, and loss of confidence in American will and capacity, as well as large annual expenditures. Would it not have been better, and also cheaper, to have sent larger numbers of forces initially to both places and brought about a more rapid conclusion to the fighting? The point is, it may prove cheaper in the long run to have larger forces that can fight wars quickly and conclusively, as Colin Powell long ago suggested, than to have smaller forces that can’t. Would a defense planner trying to anticipate future American actions be wise to base planned force structure on the assumption that the United States is out of the intervention business? Or would that be the kind of penny-wise, pound-foolish calculation that, in matters of national security, can prove so unfortunate? The debates over whether and how the United States should respond to the world’s strategic challenges will and should continue. Armed interventions overseas should be weighed carefully, as always, with an eye to whether the risk of inaction is greater than the risks of action. And as always, these judgments will be merely that: judgments, made with inadequate information and intelligence and no certainty about the outcomes. No foreign policy doctrine can avoid errors of omission and commission. But history has provided some lessons, and for the United States the lesson has been fairly clear: The world is better off, and the United States is better off, in the kind of international system that American power has built and defended.


===2AC=== 
====CP's==== 
=====China===== 
**can’t change policy- international data sharing fails for US policy makers- empirics**
**Rogers and Parthmore ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will is a research associate specializing in security challenges, and has authored publications on energy, climate change, and environmental cooperation. Christina is an Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. (Center for New American Security, “The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)</span>
Our research suggests that the U.S. government relies heavily on GEOSS – an international program for sharing and analyzing environmental data – to increase international coordination and to access data from other sources. In part, this reliance is due to budget pressures that prevent the U.S. government from investing in new capabilities of its own. Yet over-reliance on GEOSS presents its own challenges: The system lacks key technical mechanisms that would make it user-friendly and interoperable among international partners. Moreover, it does not provide all data necessary to meet U.S. policymakers’ unique information needs, including answers to questions specific to U.S. military assets and foreign policy priorities that may not be common among international partners. Indeed, officials at various agencies fault GEOSS in several respects. Officials with whom we spoke complained that some of the system’s programs do not provide data or information beyond what is already publicly available. Others indicated that GEOSS, once fully operational, will cover only about one-third of U.S. climate and environmental data needs – and this assessment likely does not account for emerging concerns about climate change that policymakers at DOD are only beginning to identify, including issues in the Arctic and other regions of the world where U.S. interests are at risk. In addition, given GEOSS’s technical nature, one official expressed concern that GEOSS’s information would largely be accessible to scientists and highly technical decision-makers, rather than to senior policymakers who would benefit from more actionable information. Even if GEOSS becomes a successful system, the heavy focus on it could distract decision makers from developing a diverse portfolio of tools to meet U.S. needs for environmental and climate change information. Such a portfolio could include data from more productive forms of collaboration, such as the relatively robust international science and technology cooperation between NASA and its foreign counterparts. All of these issues, and how the U.S. government addresses them, will shape whether or not the United States has the information it needs to understand the security consequences of climate change and to develop effective policy responses. Several agencies have also identified specific, critical gaps in U.S. earth monitoring capabilities that will limit the data and analysis available to them, and thereby limit their ability to do their jobs as effectively. GEOSS may provide a partial solution, but it will not provide all the data that policymakers need to understand and prepare for the effects of environmental and climate change.

**US tech better**
**Yi Zhou** 20**08** Center for Space Science and Applied Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, George Washington University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Science Direct, “Perspectives on Sino-US cooperation in civil space programs”, 14 July 2008, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964608000404]</span>

China has no unique advanced capabilities: No single country or region has a monopoly on the ideas or technical capabilities to enable humans to live and work safely in space. The USA certainly knows that. It has been more than 30 years since Americans began to cooperate with the USSR. When such cooperation began, the USSR had strong space capabilities and experience. When the USSR collapsed in 1991, the Russian economy and space industry were severely short of funds. The USSR’s experienced engineers and professionals, and their capabilities, could have been transferred to other countries, potentially to countries not allied with the USA. Such a development might have brought danger to the USA and the world. The USA helped Russia and helped itself at the same time by engaging in cooperation with that country, taking advantage of its rich experiences. Another example is that of Canada, which, while not in the same league as the USA (or Russia), possesses the unique technology of the robot arm that has become an important section of ISS. Today, although China has developed many technologies and capabilities, there is still no other country whose technology is more advanced than that of the USA, which is one reason why the latter lacks a compelling motivation to engage in cooperation with China.

**China can’t solve- domestic factors**
**Sabathier and Faith ’11** Vincent is president of Sabathier Consulting and has more than 20 years of experience in aerospace, from rocket and satellite design to space policy. G. Ryan is a research analyst at the Space Foundation (World Politics Review, “The Global Impact of the Chinese Space Program” , May 17, 2011, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8878/the-global-impact-of-the-chinese-space-program?page=3]])

According to "The Space Report 2011," published by the Space Foundation, global economic activity associated with space was approximately $276.52 billion in 2010. China has not yet made significant inroads into this activity in satellite manufacturing and space services on the global market. However, it is difficult to imagine a mid-term future without Chinese commercial launch services and satellites. China will be a player in commercial space, and this will naturally have a significant impact on European space policy, which has traditionally focused on this sector. It is not difficult to imagine that China will account for half of the commercial launches and satellites by 2020. This will be made possible by China's cash reserves and the development of new space technologies as China pursues its human lunar program. Building on its previous experience, China will compete in the international market for space assets based on cost advantages. As a result, the West will have to leverage its technological advantage in order to remain competitive. In other words, the race between the Western technological edge and Chinese cost advantages in the high-technology space market is already on. However, it is far from certain that China will have a decisive edge in commercial space products. Unlike many of the other goods that China manufactures, the Chinese space program is primarily designed to meet national needs, rather than being designed and built solely to minimize costs. Considerations such as reliability and responsiveness, as well as a host of other domestic industrial and political factors, mean that in the long run, it is quite possible that China might find itself undercut commercially by other space powers -- especially if fears about yuan inflation prove true. Indeed, in coming years, it is entirely possible that the Long March launch systems will not be able to compete with Russian Proton rockets launched from Kazakhstan.

=====ESA===== 
**can’t change policy- international data sharing fails for US policy makers- empirics**
**Rogers and Parthmore ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will is a research associate specializing in security challenges, and has authored publications on energy, climate change, and environmental cooperation. Christina is an Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. (Center for New American Security, “The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)</span>
Our research suggests that the U.S. government relies heavily on GEOSS – an international program for sharing and analyzing environmental data – to increase international coordination and to access data from other sources. In part, this reliance is due to budget pressures that prevent the U.S. government from investing in new capabilities of its own. Yet over-reliance on GEOSS presents its own challenges: The system lacks key technical mechanisms that would make it user-friendly and interoperable among international partners. Moreover, it does not provide all data necessary to meet U.S. policymakers’ unique information needs, including answers to questions specific to U.S. military assets and foreign policy priorities that may not be common among international partners. Indeed, officials at various agencies fault GEOSS in several respects. Officials with whom we spoke complained that some of the system’s programs do not provide data or information beyond what is already publicly available. Others indicated that GEOSS, once fully operational, will cover only about one-third of U.S. climate and environmental data needs – and this assessment likely does not account for emerging concerns about climate change that policymakers at DOD are only beginning to identify, including issues in the Arctic and other regions of the world where U.S. interests are at risk. In addition, given GEOSS’s technical nature, one official expressed concern that GEOSS’s information would largely be accessible to scientists and highly technical decision-makers, rather than to senior policymakers who would benefit from more actionable information. Even if GEOSS becomes a successful system, the heavy focus on it could distract decision makers from developing a diverse portfolio of tools to meet U.S. needs for environmental and climate change information. Such a portfolio could include data from more productive forms of collaboration, such as the relatively robust international science and technology cooperation between NASA and its foreign counterparts. All of these issues, and how the U.S. government addresses them, will shape whether or not the United States has the information it needs to understand the security consequences of climate change and to develop effective policy responses. Several agencies have also identified specific, critical gaps in U.S. earth monitoring capabilities that will limit the data and analysis available to them, and thereby limit their ability to do their jobs as effectively. GEOSS may provide a partial solution, but it will not provide all the data that policymakers need to understand and prepare for the effects of environmental and climate change.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Europe’s EOS program fails- empirics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Physorg 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Science News Source, Climate satellite 'blinded' by radio interference October 6, 2010 http://www.physorg.com/news205588842.html</span>
The 315-million-euro (434-million-dollar) Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) probe "has been bugged by patches of interference from radar, TV and radio transmissions in what should be a protected band," the ESA complained. "Painstaking efforts to reduce these unwanted signals are now paying off," the Paris-based agency said. The SMOS orbits 760 kilometres (470 miles) above Earth, a low-altitude slot enabling it to gauge the impact of climate change on the movement of water across land, air and sea. Soon after it was launched last November 2, scientists realised that interference was "effectively blinding" the probe as it passed over parts of southern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and some coastal zones, ESA said in a press release. The intrusion has two causes. One is a leak into a band of the electromagnetic spectrum (1400-1427 MHz in the L-band) which is assigned to space astronomy and Earth exploration satellites by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). This source came from overpowerful transmitters in adjacent bands, ESA said. The other cause is illegal transmissions by TV, radio links and networks such as security systems that are blasting into the precious radio band. "Also, terrestrial radars appear to cause interference," ESA said. The agency said it had had to embark upon "the tricky and lengthy process" of having the illegal transmissions shut down and excessive out-of-band emissions reduced. Its first approach had been to governments in Europe, which were tracking down the sources and having the devices retuned or shut down. As a result, interference "is on the wane," it said. The problem with SMOS has run in parallel with a hitch with the satellite's sister, a probe called Gravity field and steady-state Ocean Circulation Explorer (GOCE). For three months this year, GOCE was able to record data but was unable to send it back to Earth, due to a malfunctioning communications link between the processor and telemetry modules on the satellite's main computer. The ESA announced on September 7 that the problem had been fixed. GOCE and SMOS are on the agency's roster of "Earth Explorer" projects to further fundamental understanding about the Earth. Investigations into ice cover, cloud cover, vertical winds and the planet's magnetic field are either planned or in operation.

**EU economically unstable-cant fund the plan**
**CIA ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (June 29 The World Factbook Europe; European Union, economy https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/ee.html</span>
Internally, the EU has abolished trade barriers, adopted a common currency, and is striving toward convergence of living standards. Internationally, the EU aims to bolster Europe's trade position and its political and economic power. Because of the great differences in per capita income among member states (from $7,000 to $78,000) and in national attitudes toward issues like inflation, debt, and foreign trade, the EU faces difficulties in devising and enforcing common policies. Eleven established EU member states, under the auspices of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), introduced the euro as their common currency on 1 January 1999 (Greece did so two years later), but the UK and Denmark have 'opt-outs' that allow them to keep their national currencies, and Sweden has not taken the steps needed to participate. Between 2004 and 2007, the EU admitted 12 countries that are, in general, less advanced economically than the other 15. Of the 12 most recent member states, only Slovenia (1 January 2007), Cyprus and Malta (1 January 2008), Slovakia (1 January 2009), and Estonia (1 January 2011) have adopted the euro; the remaining states other than the UK and Denmark are legally required to adopt the currency upon meeting EU's fiscal and monetary convergence criteria. The EU has recovered from the global financial crisis faster than expected, with business investment growing by an estimated 2% in 2010, but with public investment and housing development lagging. Strong corporate profits should enable this recovery to continue in 2011. Nevertheless, significant risks to growth remain, including, high official debts and deficits, aging populations, over-regulation of non-financial businesses, and doubts about the sustainability of the EMU. In June 2010, prompted by the Greek financial crisis, the EU and the IMF set up a $1 trillion bailout fund to rescue any EMU member in danger of default, but it has not calmed market jitters that have diminished the value of the euro. Discussions are currently under way to create a permanent European Stabilization Mechanism (ESM) in 2013, when the existing European Financial Stability Facility expires

=====Japan===== 
**can’t change policy- international data sharing fails for US policy makers- empirics**
**Rogers and Parthmore ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will is a research associate specializing in security challenges, and has authored publications on energy, climate change, and environmental cooperation. Christina is an Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. (Center for New American Security, “The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)</span>
Our research suggests that the U.S. government relies heavily on GEOSS – an international program for sharing and analyzing environmental data – to increase international coordination and to access data from other sources. In part, this reliance is due to budget pressures that prevent the U.S. government from investing in new capabilities of its own. Yet over-reliance on GEOSS presents its own challenges: The system lacks key technical mechanisms that would make it user-friendly and interoperable among international partners. Moreover, it does not provide all data necessary to meet U.S. policymakers’ unique information needs, including answers to questions specific to U.S. military assets and foreign policy priorities that may not be common among international partners. Indeed, officials at various agencies fault GEOSS in several respects. Officials with whom we spoke complained that some of the system’s programs do not provide data or information beyond what is already publicly available. Others indicated that GEOSS, once fully operational, will cover only about one-third of U.S. climate and environmental data needs – and this assessment likely does not account for emerging concerns about climate change that policymakers at DOD are only beginning to identify, including issues in the Arctic and other regions of the world where U.S. interests are at risk. In addition, given GEOSS’s technical nature, one official expressed concern that GEOSS’s information would largely be accessible to scientists and highly technical decision-makers, rather than to senior policymakers who would benefit from more actionable information. Even if GEOSS becomes a successful system, the heavy focus on it could distract decision makers from developing a diverse portfolio of tools to meet U.S. needs for environmental and climate change information. Such a portfolio could include data from more productive forms of collaboration, such as the relatively robust international science and technology cooperation between NASA and its foreign counterparts. All of these issues, and how the U.S. government addresses them, will shape whether or not the United States has the information it needs to understand the security consequences of climate change and to develop effective policy responses. Several agencies have also identified specific, critical gaps in U.S. earth monitoring capabilities that will limit the data and analysis available to them, and thereby limit their ability to do their jobs as effectively. GEOSS may provide a partial solution, but it will not provide all the data that policymakers need to understand and prepare for the effects of environmental and climate change.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political Problems prevent Japan space solvency</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chino and Shimbun 08</span>__** ( Keiko and Yomiuri are staff writers for The Daily Yomiuri, “Space development proves financial black hole” March 22nd 08, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12225261758&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T12225261730]]</span>
&cisb=22_T12225261761&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=145202&docNo=1 6/23/11)

In addition to the government, the world of politics as a whole has turned a collective blind eye to the situation. The government should draw up goals and raise awareness over project-completion deadlines when allotting budgets, as well as release concrete results and keep the public abreast of developments. For example, this could include details of the technological advances made by Japan in light of the assembly of its experimental space laboratory. The government must conduct a thorough probe and inform the public whether the project was worth the cost, as well as explain its plans for the future. Space development and related technology have never been subject to a unified plan, and different policies have been mapped out for the development of individual satellites and rockets. As a result, these incompatible plans have resulted in a lack of rockets capable of launching satellites. However, it is unlikely space development would advance dramatically, even if the funds requested by aerospace companies were made available. Referred to as a "space village," the world of space development is an exclusive club, and only a few organizations, companies and engineers can become members. In other words, there are many vested interests. Against this backdrop, companies relying on government demands can sit back and relax--as long as the project is not scrapped. Declining budgets have brought an end to the honeymoon period between the two sides, which has resulted in companies growing ever more dissatisfied. The DPJ has said policies that benefit only certain firms are meaningless and attempts must be made to breathe new life into old practices. However, there have as yet been no political attempts to review space development. Hopefully, any road map for the future will be drawn up from a wide perspective.

**Japan stopping space operations because of mission failures**
**Vieru, 10** – Tudor Vieru, science editor on space issues (12/18/10, News Today, “JAXA may Need to Downscale Its Space Ambitions”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://news.softpedia.com/news/JAXA-May-Need-to-Downscale-Its-Space-Ambitions-173513.shtml]]</span>)
Space analysts in Japan believe that the nation's space agency may need to rethink its long-term space strategy and ambitions, following last week's failure to put a spacecraft in Venusian orbit. This is the second of two probes to miss its target, after the spacecraft Nozomi swung past Mars in 2003, failing to get captured in a stable orbit. That mission is currently on a heliocentric orbit. Last week, the Akatsuki space probe, the world's first weather satellite around another planet, failed to decelerate sufficiently to be captured in an orbit around Venus, and overshot the planet. According to early calculations, it will take until late 2016 – early 2017 for another orbital insertion attempt to become possible. These poor results deserve proper scrutiny, experts now say. Even Akatsuki mission scientists believe that the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) should take a close, hard look at its plans, and trim them according to its actual capabilities. “Our score is zero wins, two losses. We have to be more conservative to plan our next planetary mission, so it will never fail in any aspect,” JAXA official Takehiko Satoh told Space on December 16. The interview was taken at the 2010 annual fall meeting of the American Geophysical Union (AGU), which was held in San Francisco, California, between December 13-17. On December 6, Akatsuki reached a point some 342 miles (550 kilometers) away from its target. Once there, it was supposed to fire its thrusters, get obscured by the planet for a few minutes, then resume communications and enter orbit. But the 22-minute communications blackout turned into a 90-minute one, and once contact was established the JAXA mission control team could see that the spacecraft was speeding away from its intended target. According to Satoh, JAXA experts still have no idea why the thrusters misfired. “The pressure decrease was the direct cause. But we don't know why the pressure shut down,” he said. The expert added that the Akatsuki team is relatively optimistic about the second orbital insertion attempt. “Everybody thought Hayabusa was unrecoverable. We now share that never-give-up-spirit with the Hayabusa team,” he explained. The Hayabusa sample-return flight spent years traveling to the asteroid Ikotawa, and then returning home. Nearly everything that could have failed on it did, yet the sample chamber was safely returned to Earth this June. “With Mars exploration, so many scientists want a big lander or a big rover. If we had previous successes with planetary orbital insertions, we might say, OK, we'll try something big,” Satoh said. “But now, maybe we can do an orbiter and a very small lander or a small rover,” he added, saying that JAXA could learn a lot from NASA and the European Space Agency.
=====Stratosats===== 
**Cards from Emory:**

**Should be complementary- their author**
**Nock et al, 02**
(K.T. Nock, M.K. Heun, K.M. Aaron, Global Aerospace Corporation, Universities Space Research Association Research Contract,” Global Constellation of Stratospheric Scientific Platforms: Phase II Final Report,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/397Nock.pdf]]</span>)

Stratospheric balloon platforms have and will continue to contribute to Earth science research by providing complementary in situ and remote sensing measurements to satellites. Because they operate above 99% of the Earth’s atmosphere, essentially in a “space” environment, stratospheric balloon platforms are excellent testbeds for new satellite instruments and sensors. In addition, they can complement satellite measurements by providing “ground truth” in regions of the atmosphere of interest to satellite experimenters. We are proposing an expanded, but complementary role for a new generation of stratospheric platforms based on advanced ULDB technology, called the StratoSat™ System. As with satellites, these platforms will be global in nature and essentially orbit the Earth. As with balloons, StratoSat™ platforms will fly much lower and slower than satellites, which enable in situ measurements not possible from satellites, and improves surface and atmospheric remote sensing performance. The following list is an example of Earth science missions for global and regional constellations of stratospheric platforms that address major Earth science issues. Several of these examples are discussed in more detail in Section 3
**CP can’t solve- no global view**
**Nock et al, 02**
(K.T. Nock, M.K. Heun, K.M. Aaron, Global Aerospace Corporation, Universities Space Research Association Research Contract,” Global Constellation of Stratospheric Scientific Platforms: Phase II Final Report,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/397Nock.pdf]]</span>)

It would be very convenient to have a free balloon which could remain stationary over a geographic zone (i.e. stationkeeping) in order be able to continuously observe a fixed location. However, balloons at any altitude are subject to the circulation of the atmosphere. Generally, the atmospheric circulation in the stratosphere is zonal in nature; moving from east to west or west to east depending upon season of the year. There is also a highly variable but small component of stratospheric circulation that is meridional in nature, exhibiting a long-term average drift away from the equator toward the poles [Eluszkiewicz, J, et. al., Residual Circulation in the Stratosphere and Lower Mesosphere as Diagnosed from Microwave Limb Sounder Data, J. Atmos. Sci. , vol. 53, pp. 217-240, 1996] If a constellation of balloons were to be uniformly spaced over the globe, eventually this average poleward drift would concentrate the balloons in the vicinity of one or the other poles. Stationkeeping over a solitary point is extremely energy intensive and requires system mass (in the form of propulsion systems) to be carried to constantly fight the winds.
**Other countries won’t agree**
**Nock et al, 02**
(K.T. Nock, M.K. Heun, K.M. Aaron, Global Aerospace Corporation, Universities Space Research Association Research Contract,” Global Constellation of Stratospheric Scientific Platforms: Phase II Final Report,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/studies/final_report/397Nock.pdf]]</span>)

The issues of international overflight of constellations of balloons should not be minimized. Today, permission to fly scientific research platforms, balloons and aircraft, over some nations is difficult to impossible to receive. The overflight issue can be exacerbated if down-looking imaging equipment is carried and/or if scientists from the overflown country are not involved in the mission. Often, intensive international diplomacy is required to allow overflight. The list of countries that can make it difficult to allow overflight includes the more obvious, Libya, Iraq, etc., but also frequently includes China and countries of the former Soviet Union, and surprisingly has included countries like Sweden and Brazil to name a few.
====DA's==== 
=====Politics - St. Marks===== 
No pc
DNT 10-14 (Danbury News Times, “Obama's lonely presidency,” http://www.newstimes.com/opinion/article/Obama-s-lonely-presidency-2219189.php)

News media depict presidencies as long-running soap operas. The story doesn't end, but it goes through changes. In this, President Barack Obama's autumn of discontent, a new and potentially disastrous media narrative is emerging about him: He's the kind of liberal who loves humanity but hates people. Such was the subtext of a stinging full-page essay that has political junkies all abuzz. Headlined "The Loner President," the essay by White House correspondent Scott Wilson in Sunday's Washington Post says Obama has a "people problem." "This president endures with little joy the small talk and back-slapping of retail politics, rarely spends more than a few minutes on a rope line, refuses to coddle even his biggest donors," Wilson observes. "His relationship with Democrats on Capitol Hill is frosty, to be generous. Personal lobbying on behalf of legislation? He prefers to leave that to Vice President Biden, an old-school political charmer." Of course, it is fair to ask: Is that a bad thing? After all, it is fair to say, Obama was elected by voters who sounded a lot like today's Republican primary voters do. They wanted an outsider to Washington, a new face who was not part of the back-slapping, glad-handing, noddin'-and-winkin' and donor-coddling Washington insider establishment. But, oh, what a difference a bad economy and a stubborn congressional opposition can make. Many Obama supporters who were looking for a return of John F. Kennedy's charisma now wish they had another Lyndon B. Johnson, a tough-minded, back-slapping arm-twister. Hey, he got things done. Most damaging to Obama's narrative is Wilson's depiction of the "No-Drama Obama" we all know as a 9-to-5 president. That's unlike, say, Bill Clinton, whose former senior advisor Rahm Emanuel, now mayor of Chicago, is quoted as remembering Clinton lobbying lawmakers at 3 a.m. to secure passage of his crime bill. "After hours, Obama prefers his briefing book and Internet browser," Wilson writes, "a solitary preparation he undertakes each night after Sasha and Malia go to bed." Of course, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush were not midnight oil burners, either, but that's probably not a comparison that Obama welcomes. Sure, Obama barnstormed the country, pitching his American Jobs Act, casting himself once again as a man alone against the Grand Old Party's stubborn congressional leaders. But to put real pressure on the House Republican majority, he needs the Senate to pass some version of the bill. Unfortunately, his political capital on Capitol Hill is running out as lawmakers face reelection races of their own. And some of Obama's allies in the Congressional Black Caucus and the left-progressive activist communities continue to grumble that he's treating them like a stand-by date -- a reliable companion for Saturday night, only to be forgotten for the rest of the week. Left-progressive activists, including his former White House green jobs advisor Van Jones, hardly mentioned Obama's name at their Take Back the American Dream Conference, an annual gathering of liberal activists in Washington.


Obama only focused on jobs
AP 10/15 ("Obama Pushes for Jobs Bill", October 15, 2011, http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2011/10/15/obama_pushes_for_jobs_bill/)
WASHINGTON—President Barack Obama says he's going to travel the country telling lawmakers to do their jobs and vote in favor of his economic proposals, and he says congressional Republicans should stop picking partisan fights and act. Coming off a week when his nearly $450 billion jobs bill died in the Senate, Obama made no reference to that failure, instead promising to renew efforts to get Republicans to vote on individual components of the legislation. "Next week, I'm urging members of Congress to vote on putting hundreds of thousands of teachers back in the classroom, cops back on the streets and firefighters back on the job," Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address Saturday.

<span style="color: black;">Obama won't spend PC to stop China currency</span>
<span style="color: black;">Reuters 10/7 -- staff writers Doug Palmer and Matt Spetalnick (2011, "Obama hits China on trade; cautious on currency bill,"<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/07/us-usa-china-idUSN1E7950FF20111007?feedType=RSS&feedName=topNews]]</span>, RG)</span>

<span style="color: black;">(Reuters) - President Barack Obama accused China on Thursday of "gaming" international trade by keeping its currency weak, but was cautious about a bill before the Senate aimed at pressing Beijing to revalue the yuan.</span>
<span style="color: black;">The legislation, which calls for U.S. tariffs on imports from countries with deliberately undervalued currencies, will head toward a final Senate vote on Tuesday after efforts to bring action to a close faltered on Thursday.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Obama stopped short of explicitly backing the legislation and he restated concerns that any measure must comply with global trade rules. Still, in his toughest language on China to date, the president echoed the sponsors of the bill.</span>
<span style="color: black;">The measure, which has drawn warnings from Beijing that it could trigger a trade war, is still widely expected to pass.</span>
<span style="color: black;">"China has been very aggressive in gaming the trading system to its advantage and to the disadvantage of other countries, particularly the United States," Obama told a news conference focused on his bid to revive a weak U.S. economy.</span>
<span style="color: black;">"Currency manipulation is one example of it," he said.</span>
<span style="color: black;">Obama, who faces a tough bid for re-election next year, did not say whether he would sign or veto the legislation if it reached his desk. Both the Senate and the House of Representatives would have to approve the measure first.</span>


<span style="color: black;">They've got the votes for China now</span>
<span style="color: black;">Hughes 10/6 -- Dow Jones Newswires (2011, "UPDATE:On Currency Bill, Rank-And-File Republicans Buck GOP Leaders,"<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111006-713089.html]]</span>, RG)</span>

<span style="color: black;">The U.S. Senate took another vote Thursday in favor of a measure to address concerns that China undervalues its currency, a move that is so far largely symbolic because the House Republican leader calls the legislation "dangerous" and won't schedule a vote on it. The wild card is that some 61 House Republican lawmakers have signed on to a similar House currency bill, bringing to 226 the legislation's supporters, more than enough to win passage in the House.</span>

Winners Win
Green 10 [professor of political science at Hofstra University, David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]
Moreover, there is a continuously evolving and reciprocal relationship between presidential boldness and achievement. In the same way that nothing breeds success like success, nothing sets the president up for achieving his or her next goal better than succeeding dramatically on the last go around. This is absolutely a matter of perception, and you can see it best in the way that Congress and especially the Washington press corps fawn over bold and intimidating presidents like Reagan and George W. Bush. The political teams surrounding these presidents understood the psychology of power all too well. They knew that by simultaneously creating a steamroller effect and feigning a clubby atmosphere for Congress and the press, they could leave such hapless hangers-on with only one remaining way to pretend to preserve their dignities. By jumping on board the freight train, they could be given the illusion of being next to power, of being part of the winning team. And so, with virtually the sole exception of the now retired Helen Thomas, this is precisely what they did.

Safety overwhelms cost – satellites have support even in this climate
Orndaff 7/13- Mary Orndaff, Birmingham News’ Washington DC correspondent since 2000, 13 July 2011, “Weather satellite funding expected to pass key congressional committee,” Online: http://blog.al.com/sweethome/2011/07/weather_satellite_funding_expe.html
WASHINGTON -- Funding for weather satellites that gave Alabamians several days' notice of the April 27 tornadoes, now endangered by federal budget cuts, would be restored with extra money expected to pass a key congressional committee today. The move to restore funds, especially in the current climate of debt reduction, is a sign that storm-weary lawmakers from the South and Midwest were able to convince their colleagues that the loss of the low-orbit satellites was a threat to public safety that should be prevented. The House Appropriations Committee today is expected to add $429.5 million to the Joint Polar Satellite System for 2012. While it's not a full restoration of the cuts the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration sustained in 2011, it would speed the process of launching new replacement satellites and shorten the time the country will go without the important atmospheric information they collect. "In NOAA, this bill includes the necessary funding to better protect Americans from natural disasters such as tornadoes, hurricanes and tsunamis," said U.S. Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Va. and chairman of the subcommittee that allocates spending for the U.S. Department of Commerce, which includes NOAA. The polar-orbiting satellites are closer to the Earth than other kinds of satellites, and the data they provide are critical to making weather forecasts beyond 48 hours, according to NOAA. That data was crucial in giving forecasters the ability to warn Alabama residents about the likelihood of a tornado outbreak five days before the April 27 storms killed 244 people in the state. Emergency managers had time to plan, and several schools and government offices closed early, likely saving many more lives. NOAA's satellite budget, like most other federal agencies, was slashed when Congress trimmed $38 billion in spending for the remainder of the 2011 budget year. The cuts slowed down work on replacing the aging satellites and pushed back launch dates for new ones. NOAA's administrator, Jane Lubchenco, has said that, even if Congress granted the $1 billion President Barack Obama requested for the polar satellite system next year, the shortfall in 2011 would cause a gap in coverage after the temporary replacement satellite ended its mission in 2016 or 2017 and before the new one would have been launched. NOAA had estimated the funding cuts could cause about an 18-month gap in weather satellite coverage, but there was no estimate Tuesday on how much of a gap would be left if part of the funding was restored. U.S. Rep. Spencer Bachus, R-Vestavia Hills, has been especially vocal about the need for the satellite coverage, even though the money was cut in a compromise package to avoid a government shutdown that he and the rest of the Alabama delegation voted for. This week, he wrote to Wolf supporting the increase. "The proposed funding represents important progress in addressing two enduring lessons of the storms in the Southeast and Midwest: Lives are saved when there is adequate advanced warning and when citizens have access to safe shelters," Bachus wrote in a Tuesday letter. The legislation being debated today by the House Appropriations Committee would spend about $900 million on the Joint Polar Satellite System, which is $429.5 million more than in 2011 but $168.7 million less than what Obama had requested, according to the bill. A group of 14 senators, including U.S. Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., has urged Senate appropriators to also protect the program, which provides long-range weather information used by farmers, shippers, military planners, pilots and fishermen. "As we enter a predicted above-average hurricane season, we hope that the early warnings these satellites provide will continue to save lives but we are concerned that lack of funding now will bring about unnecessary death and destruction in the future, when there are not accurate multi-day forecasts of severe weather," the group of senators wrote.

=====Oil - Russian Econ===== 
**Prices will decline- Geopolitical factors won’t last forever**
**Shmuel 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/11/11, John, Financial Post, “High oil prices much different from 2008”, Lexis)</span>

With crude prices retreating slightly after hitting 29-month highs last week, volatility remains an ongoing story for oil. But looking at oil's technicals suggests the recent price surge doesn't really have legs. Prices for WTI crude have recently settled to one-week lows of US$102.73, after touching a high of US$106 on the back of the conflict in Libya. But a report from National Bank Financial said oil's technicals Thursday present a much different picture than in 2008, when prices skyrocketed to US$137 a barrel. "Obviously, it is still above its current fundamental value," said Yanick Desnoyers, assistant chief economist at National Bank Financial, in the report. What makes the recent oil rally different from 2008 is the fact that OPEC has more additional production capacity than it did three years ago. As of March, capacity is at four million barrels a day compared with 1.5 million barrels in 2008. The stark contrast is mainly due to the fact that demand remains slightly lagged as the global economy continues to recover from recession. “After all, the latest run-up in oil prices is part of a not so tight market. Any positive news on the geopolitical front could have a non negligible impact on oil prices,” he said. So if you’re fretting about oil prices, don’t. Unless things really fall apart in the Middle East — mainly Saudi Arabia — prices likely won’t stay this inflated for long.

**All producers are increasing output- they prefer stable low prices to high ones**
**Schoen 6/10/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John W., MSNBC, “Watch out for falling gasoline prices”, June 10, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/43332779/ns/business-eye_on_the_economy/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

On Friday, Saudi newspaper al-Hayat reported that Saudi Arabia planned to raise output to 10 million barrels a day in July, from 8.8 million bpd in May. There was no indepedent verification of the story. Oil prices may have shown little impact even if traders had gotten the production increase they expected. With many OPEC members already cheating on production quotas, OPEC’s actual output is running about 1 million to 2 million barrels per day above the official target. Production hawks like Iran and Venezuela — who opposed calls from the Saudis for higher production — face ruinous revenue shortfalls if they hold back oil supplies. “Even those members who voted against (raising production) may be tempted to take advantage of higher prices and allow their compliance to slip further,” said Julian Jessop, who follows the oil markets for Capital Economics. In any case, efforts to raise production fall squarely on the Saudis, the only country with significant spare capacity to add to global supplies. And contrary to popular belief, the Saudis are just as worried when oil prices rise too high as when they fall too far. “They're all about stability and the long-term marketplace because, after all, the Saudis only export one thing,” said Addison Armstrong at Tradition Energy. “They have only one source of revenue, so they don't want anything to mess around with it. They want to be on this gravy train as long as possible and stability of price is the key to that.” So as the world’s largest producer, Saudi Arabia has the most to lose from the recent surge in oil prices, which has only served to accelerate global efforts to use less Saudi oil.

**Alt cause-** **Keystone Pipeline**
**Daly 9/1** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew, “Steven Chu Talks Keystone XL Pipeline, Suggest U.S. Support,” Huffington Post, online </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/09/01/steven-chu--keystone-xl-pipeline_n_945508.html?view=print&comm_ref=false]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Canada's status as a close U.S. ally should boost a plan to pipe oil from western Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in comments that signaled support for the massive $7 billion pipeline. "It's certainly true that having Canada as a supplier for our oil is much more comforting than to have other countries supply our oil," Chu said in a TV interview this week that will be aired later this month. Technology used to extract oil from tar sands such as those in Alberta, Canada are improving dramatically, Chu said, making such projects less risky to the environment. The proposed Keystone XL pipeline "is not perfect, but it's a trade-off," Chu said. U.S. officials will have to weigh the benefit of a reliable supply of oil from a friendly country against environmental concerns raised by a possible spill, he said. Chu's comments are the latest sign that the Obama administration appears likely to back the 1,700-mile pipeline, which would carry crude oil extracted from tar sands in Alberta, Canada, and bring it to refineries in Texas. The pipeline would travel through Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas and Oklahoma. The State Department said in a report last week that the project is unlikely to cause significant environmental problems during construction or operation. Calgary-based TransCanada, which would operate the pipeline, says it would be built to strict environmental standards, including 57 conditions above those required by law. The company and project supporters on both sides of the border say it would create tens of thousands of jobs and significantly reduce U.S. dependence on Middle Eastern oil. Despite those reassurances, the project has become a flashpoint for environmental groups, who say the pipeline would bring "dirty oil" that requires huge amounts of energy to extract and could cause an ecological disaster in case of a spill. Opponents have urged President Barack Obama to block the project as a sign he is serious about reducing greenhouse gas emissions blamed for global warming. Environmental activists, including actress Daryl Hannah and NASA scientist James Hansen, have been arrested in ongoing protests outside the White House the past two weeks. Chu's interview with the "energyNOW!" TV show is set to air in mid-September on Bloomberg Television.

**Russian oil collapse inevitable- new taxes**
**Soldatkin 11** (Vladimir, Staff Reuters, July 5, http://uk.reuters.com/article/2011/07/05/businesspro-us-russia-oil-idUKTRE76424X20110705)
"Year-on-year, in 2011 I see it up 90,000 bpd, compared with a 240,000 bpd rise in 2010, as growth from new fields slows," IEA's Walker said. Government taxation policy has not been helpful for companies that are tapping hydrocarbon reserves in the country, and analysts do not see a light at the end of the tunnel. Russian oil and gas companies pay higher tax rates than other industries, with taxes taking 78 percent of total oil company profits and 56 percent of gas company profits. Proposals to make taxation more diverse and profit-based have long been mired in discussions, while the government is looking to increase the tax burden to compensate for more spending ahead of parliamentary and presidential elections. Russia canceled preferential export duties for Rosneft's (ROSN.MM) Vankor oilfield -- a new field launched in 2010 that has become a major driver of overall output growth -- as well as for TNK-BP's (TNBP.MM) Verkhnechonskoye and Surgutneftegaz's (SNGS.MM) Talakan, starting from May. "The key to the answer of whether Russia will increase its production is Vankor. If Rosneft achieves the target of 25 million tonnes of oil production there in 2013, this will be a decisive factor," Valery Nesterov from Troika Dialog brokerage said.

**Not key to the economy**

**VOR 11** (Voice of Russia, “Russian economy won’t depend on oil prices – Kudrin”, April 21, 2011, http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/04/21/49258460.html)
Growth in oil prices no longer drives the development of the Russian economy, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said at a session of the Russian Union of Industrialists & Entrepreneurs. According to him, the country’s mid-term economic growth scenario that is presently before the government does not depend on oil prices. The minister also believes that their further growth worldwide will “depress the economy even more now.” Kudrin said that the 2011 federal budget stipulates $75 per barrel, whereas significantly less than the current world prices.

**Empirically, decline of Russia’s economy doesn’t lead to war**
**Mankoff 10** - specialist in Eurasian/Russian affairs, adjunct fellow for Russia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations
(Jeffrey, March, “Internal and External Impact of Russia's Economic Crisis”)

The crisis will affect Russian foreign policy in other ways as well. The military, which during the boom years became accustomed to yearly funding increases, will have to confront a period of renewed austerity.27 This austerity comes at a bad time: the war with Georgia in August 2008 exposed a number of shortcomings that the infusion of cash during the Putin years had failed to stem. In particular, the Russian armed forces were slow to react and struggled to mount combined operations, even against a much weaker foe. Even though the war was ultimately successful, the military‘s less than impressive showing strengthened the conviction among Russia‘s political leaders that reform had to be accelerated. In this way the war provided momentum for implementing a scheme to downsize and modernize the army that experts had been discussing since the 1990s. In essence, to deal with the kind of threats it confronts in the contemporary world, the Russian military needs to move away from the conscription-based mass army of the 20th century to a smaller, more mobile, and more professional force. Yet because such a fundamental re-conceptualization of the military‘s structure and goals would require significant downsizing, the officer corps has been strongly opposed to the reform. Anatoly Serdyukov, a one-time furniture salesman, was named Minister of Defense by Putin in 2007 largely because of the perceived necessity of having a non-military figure overseeing the reform efforts. With strong backing from both Putin and Medvedev, Serdyukov has been doggedly pursuing his program of transformation. However, lack of funding has imperiled these efforts, because of the need to provide social support (including housing) for laid off officers. Moscow, meanwhile, insists that spending on military procurement will not be affected by the crisis as it seeks to both upgrade the conventional forces in the aftermath of the Georgia conflict and maintain a sufficient strategic deterrence capability— though whether it can actually afford to do so remains uncertain. Meanwhile, the Russian navy is also encountering problems. Difficulties with the new Bulava submarine-launched ballistic missile (which has failed the majority of its operational tests), delays in procuring new ships, and the mounting obsolescence of much of the existing fleet have created major difficulties for the navy. Given the lack of resources and decline of the military-industrial complex since the Soviet days, these developments may be difficult to reverse.28 The struggles of the military and military-industrial complex have given the Kremlin a powerful incentive to avoid the risk of further military conflicts, especially while the fate of the Serdyukov-Medvedev reforms remains uncertain.

=====Spending===== 

**Plan doesn’t spend – money would come from related agencies**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**SVITAK 3/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Amy; Senior Writer – Space.com, “NASA’s Budget Could Get Infusion From Other U.S. Departments,” http://www.space.com/11247-nasa-budget-funding-commerce-justice-departments.html, 2011)</span></span>
Congressional appropriators could tap the funding accounts of the U.S. departments of Commerce and Justice to help cover what some see as a $1 billion shortfall in NASA’s $18.7 billion spending plan for 2012, which allocates less money for a heavy-lift rocket and crew capsule than Congress directed last year. “There’s over a billion-dollar difference between the budget request and the authorized levels in [20]12 for the launch system and the crew vehicle, and now that falls squarely back on the shoulders of [the appropriations committees] to try and figure out where to come up with that money,” said a panelist at a March 23 breakfast on Capitol Hill. Sponsored by Women in Aerospace (WIA), the breakfast was held under the Chatham House Rule, an 84-year-old protocol fashioned by the London-based nonprofit think-tank to promote frank discussion through anonymity. [What Obama and Congress Should Do for Spaceflight] The panelist, one of six whose names and job titles were circulated by WIA prior to the meeting, said funding requested in NASA’s 2012 spending plan does not square with levels Congress set in the NASA Authorization Act of 2010 that U.S. President Barack Obama signed into law in October. Specifically, the request called for spending $1.2 billion less than the $4 billion Congress authorized for the heavy-lift launch vehicle and crew capsule in 2012. At the same time, the request includes $350 million more than the $500 million Congress authorized to nurture development of commercial vehicles to deliver cargo and crews to the International Space Station after the space shuttle retires later this year. Consequently, the panelist said, it is now up to congressional appropriators “to find a billion dollars in other places in NASA to pay for those activities or to decide to make those tradeoffs and take that money out of the departments of Commerce or Justice or the other agencies that are funded in the same bill as NASA.” NASA’s annual appropriation is part of a broader spending package totaling nearly $65 billion that funds the U.S. Commerce and Justice departments, the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology and related agencies. But with NASA and other federal agencies operating in a fiscally constrained environment, the panelist said Congress could struggle to fund new multibillion-dollar programs next year. “It’s not impossible but the ability to do that is severely constrained in the environment we’re working in now, and that’s exacerbated by budget requests coming up from the administration that don’t track with the authorization,” the panelist said. Congress has yet to pass an appropriations bill for 2011, leaving NASA and most federal agencies to subsist at 2010 spending levels in the current budget year. The panelist said passing spending legislation for NASA “is a complicated and challenging thing this year, and it will be again next year” given a fiscal climate that has changed dramatically authorized funding levels for the space agency were set last fall. However, the panelist said the appropriations subcommittees that fund NASA are “very supportive of the agency, they’re supportive of the authorization, they want to see NASA get as close as possible to those authorized levels, so that will be a work in progress.”



**climate data key to the economy**
**AMS, 2001**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest) </span>
Economy. The potential threat of weather and climate disruptions to our economy is significant; both the Federal government3 and the private sector' estimate that over $2 trillion, some 25% of the U.S. gross national product is affected by weather and climate. A highly technological, exportoriented agricultural sector needs more timely, specific weather forecasts and seasonal outlooks across the United States and globally. An energy sector struggling simultaneously with rapid growth, tightening environmental constraints, and deregulation must more effectively anticipate weather and climate variability over periods of days to years in order to budget resources accurately. (Any single event can confer both costs and benefits. For example, the El Nino of 1997-98 caused over $4 billion in property and agricultural losses, while at the same time it saved $19 billion in reduced heating costs, fewer construction and transportation delays, and the likes Better predictions would help these sectors reduce the costs while preserving or enhancing the benefits.) The retail sector increasingly tailors its merchandising for clothing, food, and household goods based on seasonal weather outlooks. The Internet, changing lifestyles, and longer-term weather forecasts are allowing consumers to adjust their recreation and vacation plans to capture favorable weather, thus changing the face of this $50-billion-a-year industry. The transportation sector needs improved weather information to make the most efficient use of the nation's infrastructure of airports, highways, rail, and ports-streamlining everything from commerce to the daily commute. Flight delays alone cost the public roughly $1 billion each year.6


**5. Non-unique – congress won’t stop spending- empirics**
**SATTERFIELD 4 – 28 – 11**
Terry Satterfield, Politicians can't cut spending, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-spending?odyssey=nav%7Chead|http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-**spending**?odyssey=nav|head]]</span>

In the 18th century, as democratic ideals were taking hold both on this content and in Europe, it was observed that a democracy can exist only until its citizens discover that they can vote themselves access to the public treasury. While we don't know for certain who originally made this observation, he or she might have added a parallel: When politicians discover that they can buy votes through uncontrolled **spending**, economic collapse is assured.
Recently, we were told that Congress and the president had agreed to "the largest **spending** cut in American history." The reality, however, is that the agreement did very little. As reported by several financial news sources, a large portion of what is being called "cuts" was merely creative budget manipulation. (For example, unspent money from the 2010 census was included as a "cut" even though, given that the 2010 census is now complete, that money would not have been spent anyway.)
David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, stated that the "cuts" amount to "no more than a rounding error in this year's deficit." David Stockham, Director of the Office of Management and Budget during the Reagan administration, after observing this latest round of political shenanigans, referred to Congressional committees responsible for budget appropriations as "cesspools of deceit."
Yet, as we head toward 2012, we will be inundated with political ads proclaiming a new era of fiscal responsibility. Republicans will tell us that they engineered this "largest **spending** cut," and democrats, of course, will claim to have a master plan that will both cut **spending** and increase government's ability to meet our every need. In short, we will be lied to by both sides.
The reality is far too frightening for any career politician to acknowledge. Our nation borrows $6 billion per day. In 2010, government **spending** on entitlement programs alone exceeded total tax revenue. Today, one in six Americans receives money directly from the treasury. Every conceivable want and need of the masses is assumed to be government's responsibility. And, in the pursuit of votes, politicians have been only too willing to take it all on.
Of course, we can't place the blame entirely on Congress. Polls consistently show that while Americans are for "**spending** cuts" generally, they are unwilling to target specific programs. So even while we recognize that our government is out of control, we are unwilling to curtail our own access to its treasury.
The president, of course, espouses increased taxes as the answer to our problems. Unfortunately, Congress has proven over and over that it cannot control itself when presented with increased tax revenue. A widely publicized study completed by economists at Ohio University showed that, since the 1940s, for every dollar Washington received due to a tax increase, it increased **spending** by $1.24. Make no mistake; this Congress -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- will do exactly the same with any new tax revenue.
Career politicians cannot and will not curtail **spending**. Funding government programs is the means by which they buy votes in order to remain in power. Next year, as political ads showing everything from hungry children to needy seniors flow across our TV screens, it won't take a PR genius to recognize that proposing specific, meaningful cuts is simply not an option. So, we must endure another round of oxymoronic campaign speeches ("I want to reign in the deficit and increase funding for education!") and nonsensical attacks ("My opponent doesn't care about the deficit and she cut programs for our senior citizens!").

**Economic decline doesn’t cause war- prefer consensus**
**TIR 10** Ph.D. in Political Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and is an Associate Professor in the Department of International Affairs at the University of Georgia
(Tir Jaroslav, The Journal of Politics, “Territorial Diversion: Diversionary Theory of War and Territorial Conflict”, 2010, Volume 72: 413-425)

Empirical support for the economic growth rate is much weaker. The finding that poor economic performance is associated with a higher likelihood of territorial conflict initiation is significant only in Models 3–4.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#fn14|14]]</span> The weak results are not altogether surprising given the findings from prior literature. In accordance with the insignificant relationships of Models 1–2 and 5–6, Ostrom and Job (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref68|1986]]</span>), for example, note that the likelihood that a U.S. President will use force is uncertain, as the bad economy might create incentives both to divert the public’s attention with a foreign adventure and to focus on solving the economic problem, thus reducing the inclination to act abroad. Similarly, Fordham (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref22|1998a]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref23|1998b]]</span>), DeRouen (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref17|1995]]</span>), and Gowa (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref34|1998]]</span>) find no relation between a poor economy and U.S. use of force. Furthermore, Leeds and Davis (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref50|1997]]</span>) conclude that the conflict-initiating behavior of 18 industrialized democracies is unrelated to economic conditions as do Pickering and Kisangani (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref69|2005]]</span>) and Russett and Oneal (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref73|2001]]</span>) in global studies. In contrast and more in line with my findings of a significant relationship (in Models 3–4), Hess and Orphanides (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref38|1995]]</span>), for example, argue that economic recessions are linked with forceful action by an incumbent U.S. president. Furthermore, Fordham’s (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref24|2002]]</span>) revision of Gowa’s (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref34|1998]]</span>) analysis shows some effect of a bad economy and DeRouen and Peake (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref19|2002]]</span>) report that U.S. use of force diverts the public’s attention from a poor economy. Among cross-national studies, Oneal and Russett (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref66|1997]]</span>) report that slow growth increases the incidence of militarized disputes, as does Russett (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref72|1990]]</span>)—but only for the United States; slow growth does not affect the behavior of other countries. Kisangani and Pickering (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref49|2007]]</span>) report some significant associations, but they are sensitive to model specification, while Tir and Jasinski (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#ref84|2008]]</span>) find a clearer link between economic underperformance and increased attacks on domestic ethnic minorities. While none of these works has focused on territorial diversions, my own inconsistent findings for economic growth fit well with the mixed results reported in the literature.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayFulltext?type=6&fid=7418116&jid=JOP&volumeId=72&issueId=02&aid=7418112&fulltextType=RA&fileId=S0022381609990879#fn15|15]]</span> Hypothesis 1 thus receives strong support via the unpopularity variable but only weak support via the economic growth variable. These results suggest that embattled leaders are much more likely to respond with territorial diversions to direct signs of their unpopularity (e.g., strikes, protests, riots) than to general background conditions such as economic malaise. Presumably, protesters can be distracted via territorial diversions while fixing the economy would take a more concerted and prolonged policy effort. Bad economic conditions seem to motivate only the most serious, fatal territorial confrontations. This implies that leaders may be reserving the most high-profile and risky diversions for the times when they are the most desperate, that is when their power is threatened both by signs of discontent with their rule and by more systemic problems plaguing the country (i.e., an underperforming economy).



**7. Deficit spending improves economy – our economic situation requires it**
**White 2011, economics professor at George Mason University** (Lawrence H. White, Harvard Alumni, associate editor of the “Review of Austrian Economics”, contributing editor for The Freeman magazine, adjunct scholar of the Cato Institute. From Pleasant Deficit Spending To Unpleasant Sovereign Debt Crises from The Clash of Economic Ideas, Mercatus Center, April 2011)

Absent full employment, Eckstein suggested here, resource scarcity is not a binding constraint and deficit spending is better than a free lunch. Paul Krugman expressed the same view on his New York Times blog in 2009 by, using the phrase <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">―</span>normal conditions<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">‖</span> in place of <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">―</span>full employment<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">‖</span>: Why, exactly, do we think that budget deficits are a bad thing? The textbook answer identifies two reasons — two ways in which budget deficits now make us worse off in the future. They are: (1) The fiscal burden: deficits now mean higher debt later, which will have to be serviced, and that means higher taxes and/or less spending on other, presumably desirable things 498 (2) Crowding out: when it runs deficits, the government competes with the private sector for funds, so deficits crowd out private investment, which reduces potential growth. All this makes sense under normal conditions. But right now we‘re not living under normal conditions. We‘re in a situation in which the economy is deeply depressed, [and monetary policy has become ineffective, which] actually reverses argument (2). … Under the kind of conditions we‘re now facing, the main determinant of business investment is the state of the economy, as evidenced by the plunge in investment [during the 2008-09 recession]. This, in turn, means that anything that improves the state of the economy, including fiscal stimulus, leads to more investment, and hence raises the economy‘s future potential. That is, under current conditions deficit spending doesn‘t lead to crowding out — it leads to crowding in. In fact, you could argue that the worst thing we can do for future generations is NOT to run sufficiently large deficits right now.



**Economy more resilient than predicted – has taken shocks and still growing**
**The Business Insider 11** (Bob Eisenbeis, March 31, “This Market Is Showing Incredible Resilience In The Face Of Many Crises”, lexis) WSX

No, not shock and awe as in how the military uses the terms, but rather shock as a characterization of what has hit the US and world economies recently and awe in terms of how resilient both have been. Just think of the variety of shocks that financial markets have had to digest and synthesize.
First there was the financial crisis, the shutdown of the commercial-paper and mortgage markets, and broad concerns about systemic risk. Then there were failures of major private-sector and government-sponsored institutions, government injections of capital, and guarantees of bank liabilities.
Europe has been wrestling with its own debt and fiscal finance problems, and these have caused politicians both in Europe and the US to face the hard realities that governments “ local, state, and federal “ cant continue to run increasing deficits forever; and the public has sent a strong reaffirmation of that fact.
We see the US fighting two wars, in Iraq and Afghanistan, that have sapped our military capabilities and have not been particularly well received in that part of the world. Then, the self-immolation of a street vendor culminated in the toppling of an autocratic Egyptian government. Demands for freedom and liberalization have spread farther and faster in the Middle East than one could have imagined.
Now, a third military front has been opened in Libya, and there is much concern and confusion both in the US and the rest of the world as to what the objectives are and how to define success. And then there are the triple disasters of earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear reactor farm meltdown, which promise to further worsen Japans deficit, in order to finance rebuilding. Oh, and did I mention the flooding in Australia and major quake in New Zealands capital? The global political economy is facing as much uncertainty as has ever been experienced in recent times.
Yet, in the face of all these events, the US stock market has essentially regained its lost value. To be sure, the job market is lagging and has a long way to go to recoup the 7.4 million or so jobs that were lost during the recession. The housing market faces a glut of excess supply that will take a long while to work off. However, corporate profits are at an all-time high, interest rates are low, and inflation has so far remained contained. Real economic growth has been positive and has increased at a steady, albeit modest, pace. State tax revenues are recovering. Consumer spending on services, durables, and nondurables are all positive and have been for the last few quarters. Who would have guessed that outcome, despite the best efforts of politicians and economic policy makers?
An individual investor, however, is likely to be shell-shocked to the point of numbness by now. Witness the reaction to assertions about the municipal bond market that have triggered large sell-offs “ especially by uninformed investors. Both risk and uncertainty are still high, and one wonders where the next shock will come from. Will it come from Europe or the UK, as policy makers begin to raise interest rates out of concern for domestic inflation, which is clearly on the increase? Will the surprise come from the FOMC, in an early truncation of its most recent QE II purchases of government securities? Will it come from a pullback in US consumer spending, as food and energy costs continue to rise? (Consumer confidence has recently taken a large hit, due in no small part to the increases in headline-inflation components.) Or will it come in the form of an external shock due to an acceleration and spread of the turmoil in the Middle East, which would further threaten world energy supplies?
What are the best policies for governments to follow under such circumstances? First, they should recognize that the real economies dont seem to be as fragile as many fear. US GDP is currently at an all-time high, in both real and nominal terms, “ and exceeds its level at the onset of the financial crisis. This means that somebody is making something, somebody is selling services, and most people are still working. The economies of the world will pick up again when governments act to remove imbalances, that is, when fiscal responsibility is restored, tax and spending programs are brought into balance, promises that cant be kept are revoked, central-bank balance sheets are restored to normal, and clear strategies for dealing with political unrest and their implications for energy policies are formulated and articulated. When all this is done, uncertainty will be reduced and risks clarified. Then businesses can begin investing and hiring again.



=Neg= 
==DA's== 
===Irregular Warfare (vs. Space Mil)=== 
====1NC==== 
**Space weaponization kills irregular warfare capability which is key to solve WMD threats from terrorism, rogue states, and failed states and extinction. The plan can’t solve.**
**Elhefnawy, ’10** – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review (April 1. Originally published in PARAMETERS, Spring 2003, pp. 124-132. http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)

Some might have us believe that American space dominance would eliminate the entire spectrum of warfare between "Intifada and Armageddon" (to use Bruce Sterling's phrasing) by leaving potential adversaries hopelessly outmatched. But even if that fantasy were so, if conventional warfare ceased to be a consideration, such a situation would nonetheless present a return to brinkmanship against not one but several different enemies. Recent work on the study of deterrence suggests that the limitations of deterrence will be more pronounced in the future, in single situations and perhaps generally. Deterrence must not only be seen as credible, but as speaking to the values of an enemy both willing and able to change his course of action, something that may be less likely in dealings with rogue states than it was with the Soviet Union.19 The reality is also that other states will use their nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction to deter American action, as well as be deterred by the United States, and they may be able to do this with fewer resources than is generally appreciated. An enemy which sneaks its nukes into the United States rather than lobbing them across the ocean atop an ICBM (which may now be the more plausible threat) simplifies the problem of its acquiring a delivery system and bypasses missile and other conventional defenses.20 It also sows confusion as to the origin of the attack, which is perhaps its best hope for warding off a devastating counterattack. The threats of Intifada and Armageddon also become the same threat when terrorists possess weapons of mass destruction. As 11 September 2001 reminded the world, large-scale terror is a very real danger, and in addition to the other problems they pose (from threats to investment to refugee flows) failed states are increasingly seen as sanctuaries for those who would commit such acts. The United States is incapable of single-handedly eliminating the problem of failed states. Indeed, managing that problem is not something that can be accomplished solely through military instruments, since the main effort has to be preventative.21 When the time comes for military action, the real test is less whether planes can smart-bomb bandits than whether ground troops can keep the peace. In fact it is possible that an extension of space power would diminish America's ability to deal with these other problems. One way would be through the fostering of a false sense of invulnerability: the perception will be that the United States can neglect very real problems because it has its fortress in the sky. The sense that wars can be won swiftly from the air will enhance this by reducing the tolerance for more protracted operations, especially when they incur casualties: the success of Desert Storm made Somalia's costs appear all the more unacceptable. Another way in which a drastically enlarged investment in space-based assets could weaken American power is through the diminution of its resources. It would mean less money for other functions and missions like intelligence-gathering or peacekeeping, let alone attempts to attack the economic and ecological roots of many present and future conflicts.22 The hostility with which other states could greet American space dominance may also lessen American influence abroad, making it more difficult to jointly tackle with other states problems like the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.

**Nuke terror causes extinction**
**Speice ‘6** (Patrick F., Jr. "Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs." William and Mary Law Review 47.4 (Feb 2006): 1427(59). Expanded Academic ASAP.)
The potential consequences of the unchecked spread of nuclear knowledge and material to terrorist groups that seek to cause mass destruction in the United States are truly horrifying. A terrorist attack with a nuclear weapon would be devastating in terms of immediate human and economic losses. (49) Moreover, there would be immense political pressure in the United States to discover the perpetrators and retaliate with nuclear weapons, massively increasing the number of casualties and potentially triggering a full-scale nuclear conflict. (50) In addition to the threat posed by terrorists, leakage of nuclear knowledge and material from Russia will reduce the barriers that states with nuclear ambitions face and may trigger widespread proliferation of nuclear weapons. (51) This proliferation will increase the risk of nuclear attacks against the United States or its allies by hostile states, (52) as well as increase the likelihood that regional conflicts will draw in the United States and escalate to the use of nuclear weapons. (53)

**Bioterror causes extinction**
**Matheny 07** – Research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute @ Oxford University [Jason G. Matheny (PhD candidate in Applied Economics and Master’s in Public Health at Johns Hopkins University), “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis. Volume 27, Number 5, 2007, pg. http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html]
Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed to engineer a virus is modest compared to that needed to build a nuclear weapon; the necessary equipment and materials are increasingly accessible and because biological agents are self-replicating, a weapon can have an exponential effect on a population (Warrick, 2006; Williams, 2006).5 Current U.S. biodefense efforts are funded at $5 billion per year to develop and stockpile new drugs and vaccines, monitor biological agents and emerging diseases, and strengthen the capacities of local health systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).

**State failure causes escalating instability, disease, and nuclear war**
**African Studies Centre et. al., 2003**
[African Studies Centre et al, December, The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December,http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf]

In the malign scenario of global developments the number of collapsed states would grow significantly. This would mean that several more countries in the world could not be held to account for respecting international agreements in various fields, be it commercial transactions, debt repayment, the possession and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of the national territory for criminal or terrorist activities. The increase in failed states would immediately lead to an increase in international migration, which could have a knock-on effect, first in neighbouring countries which, having similar politico-economic structures, could suffer increased destabilization and collapse as well. Developments in West Africa during the last decade may serve as an example. Increased international migration would, secondly, have serious implications for the Western world. In Europe it would put social relations between the population and immigrant communities under further pressure, polarizing politics. An increase in collapsed states would also endanger the security of Western states and societies. Health conditions could deteriorate as contagious diseases like Ebola or Sars would spread because of a lack of measures taken in collapsed areas. Weapons of mass destruction could come into the hands of various sorts of political entities, be they terrorist groups, political factions in control of part of a collapsed state or an aggressive political elite still in control of a national territory and intent on expansion. Not only North Korea springs to mind; one could very well imagine such states in (North) Africa. Since the multilateral system of control of such weapons would have ended in part because of the decision of the United States to try and check their spread through unilateral action - a system that would inherently be more unstable than a multilateral, negotiated regime - one could be faced with an arms race that would sooner or later result in the actual use of these weapons. In the malign scenario, relations between the US and Europe would also further deteriorate, in questions of a military nature as well as trade relations, thus undercutting any possible consensus on stemming the growth of collapsed states and the introduction of stable multilateral regimes towards matters like terrorism, nuclear weapons and international migration. Disagreement is already rife on a host of issues in these fields. At worst, even the Western members of the Westphalian system - especially those bordering on countries in the former Third World, i.e. the European states - could be faced with direct attacks on their national security.
====Overview==== 
**Failed states also cause massive waves of refugee migrations – that causes war and escalation**
**Loescher, 2002**
[Gil, Senior Fellow for Forced Migration and International Security @ International Institute for Strategic Studies, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “Blaming the victim: refugees and global security: the bulk of the world's refugees remain in the developing world. And the industrializedstates, more worried after September 11, are taking new steps to keep them away.; The Uprooted”, 11-1, 58:6, Lexis]

For developing countries, displaced populations are both a consequence of conflict and a cause of continuing conflict and instability. Forced displacement can obstruct peace processes, undermine attempts at economic development, and exacerbate intercommunal tensions. Refugee flows also can be a source of regional conflict, causing instability in neighboring countries, triggering external intervention, and sometimes providing armed refugee groups with base camps from which to conduct insurgency, armed resistance, and terrorist activities.

**Proves space weapons can’t solve war**
**Elhefnawy, ’10** – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review (April 1. Originally published in PARAMETERS, Spring 2003, pp. 124-132. http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)

A common feature of scenarios built around the "omniscient, unobstructed lethality" of an "astrocop" system is that it will stop any tank, plane, or missile from crossing borders, effectively ending interstate war. Unfortunately, such a plan assumes a billiard-ball model of international relations in which states are unitary, self-contained actors, an idea which appears increasingly quaint. (The proponents of such a system, after all, often claim that interstate war is largely a thing of the past, which raises the problem that this enormous investment is being justified through reference to a problem that is supposed to have already disappeared.) Most of the conventional conflicts where such weapons may be effective are civil wars which spill across borders, involving neighboring states. A better question than "How will the United States manage interstate wars?" may be "How will the United States manage intrastate wars?" and few have had much to say on that score. The reality is that as in the Cold War, internal and interstate conflicts are likely to feed off each other. American control of space will not in and of itself prevent antagonisms between states from finding their expression in proxy wars. At the same time, internal conflicts can complicate American relations with other great powers because these do have geopolitical significance, and because they often occur along ethnic lines. If Samuel Huntington's "clash of civilizations" thesis was an overstatement, it was nonetheless a factor in Russian hostility toward NATO action in the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s.18
====Link==== 
**This is the thesis of their advantage – aff author agrees**
**Dolman**, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, **10**
[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]

It is an even more difficult dilemma for those who oppose weapons in general, and space weapons in particular. Ramifications for the most critical current function of the Army, Navy, and Marines—pacification, occupation, and control of foreign territory—are profound. With the downsizing of traditional weapons to accommodate heightened space expenditures, the ability to do all three would wane significantly. At a time when many are calling for increased capability to pacify and police foreign lands, in light of the continuing commitments to the occupation and stabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq, space weapons proponents must advocate reduction of these capabilities in favor of a system that will have no direct potential to do so.

**Creates military intertia which prevents strategic adaptability**
**Bickel ’00** (Keith, Senior Defense Analyst @ Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment, Blueprint Magazine, “Buying Smart”, 1-1, http://www.dlc.org/ndol_ci.cfm?contentid=1129&kaid=124&subid=159)

Ten years after the Cold War's end, the United States military has settled on what could be called Cold War Lite. We have a fighting machine that, while somewhat slimmed down, is still trained, equipped, and structured to fight a peer enemy (Russia) in a bipolar world under wide-open geographic conditions, like the plains of central Europe or the deserts of the Middle East. Yet these are the least likely war scenarios we face today. We are not likely to find another enemy as obliging as Iraq was to fight us using Soviet military doctrine and technology under the ideal conditions of the Persian Gulf deserts. After all, Desert Storm was the son of all Cold War battles - the Fulda Gap moved to the Euphrates delta. Instead, the world today is in the midst of dramatic changes that will lead us not just to more small-scale humanitarian interventions, but to "high-end" warfare characterized by lighter, faster, stealthier weaponry. In 1940, a similar dramatic shift occurred. France thought it had the right defense for the right time and place in its Maginot Line. Perfectly positioned for static trench warfare, France was taken by surprise when Hitler introduced what the military calls an asymmetric counter, or unexpected response: the Blitzkrieg. Fast-moving German Panzers and Stuka dive-bombers transformed warfare and vanquished France in six weeks. The cost of being unprepared for an unforeseen use of new technology was devastating. At century's end, the United States likewise faces a dramatically shifting threat paradigm which raises major questions in military planning: Will we continue to write budgets that tinker at the margins of old ones, or will we fundamentally rethink how we spend today's money for tomorrow's warfare? If we don't make the latter choice, we could see ourselves falling behind the curve of modern warfare and - worst case - even losing our superpower status with its global reach and credibility. Two forces in the military planning community and in Congress are currently in conflict over which choice to make. One force is driven by the traditionalists who continue to invest in what is essentially an upgraded, modernized version of a Cold War military. This static approach is partially a product of service rivalries - each general and admiral wants an arsenal as good and big as his peers'. The debate is also mired in classic political maneuvering: Members of Congress defend the existing interests, and the defense contracts, of their constituents. The political inertia reinforces the military inertia. Against this way of thinking, a second force consists of the defense modernizers who favor "leap-ahead" technologies and see a different kind of warfare in America's future. This school of military thought no longer considers massed forces and overwhelming firepower as the key indices of future military superiority. It recognizes that proliferation of missile technology and advances in commercial surveillance and communications will soon allow our adversaries, even the poorer ones, to level ' the playing field against us. The Pentagon's Defense Science Board has concluded that even nations with austere, Third-World budgets can create a formidable missile force. With off-the-shelf satellite imagery available for commercial downloading, they will be able to see what we see and strike from long distances with precision weaponry - without investing in the heavy armored forces, air fleets or carrier navies that only great powers can afford. These future competitors need not own expensive platforms and the associated infrastructure to frustrate U.S. war aims and deny us the ability to aid allies. They just need to invest in technologies that exploit our weaknesses. Think Milosevic with missiles. This raises profound questions about weapons procurement and how we shape our defense budgets for the coming century. The answers are not obvious even to the modernizers, since it is not simply a matter of tilting the funding away from heavy armor toward high tech. Indeed, the answer lies not in selecting this or that piece of hardware or even software. It lies not in one weapons platform or another - not even in one doctrine or another. It lies instead in accepting uncertainty. The salient feature of the Cold War was certainty; we lived in a bipolar world with a clear set of threats: land warfare in Europe, nuclear attack by intercontinental missiles, a possible invasion of Korea or Taiwan. Today the type of warfare we face is already changed; Kosovo, East Timor, or Rwanda may preoccupy us more than Russia or China. Tomorrow it will change even more. But the fact is that we do not know exactly what it will look like; our potential adversaries can be countries (North Korea) or terrorists (Hamas) or an eccentric billionaire with a messianic mission (Osama bin Laden). In short, we live in uncertainty. To hedge against uncertainty, we must invest in multiple research and development (R&D) streams that ensure success on some fronts despite failures in others and that give us the flexibility to deal with constantly shifting military asymmetries. We must go down many research roads at once. And we must be willing to pay the price by reversing the continued decline in our R&D budgets, which have slid below 12 percent of military spending. Instead, these budgets should be increased by 50 percent or more. Beyond giving ourselves a range of choices at the end of a typical 10- to 20-year R&D cycle, investing in a variety of military options will keep our adversaries off balance. They will be unable to foresee, as they so easily can today, the architecture of our strengths (e.g., stealthy aircraft, tank-on-tank warfare) and weaknesses (e.g., our inability to insert armored ground forces overseas rapidly). By keeping our planning trends open-ended across a broad front, we will force them likewise to make choices, not knowing where we will end up when it comes time to buy and deploy the fruits of our R&D. This is the dynamic approach necessary to military superiority in the 21st century. A key advantage of this dynamic of uncertainty is that it helps us avoid three R&D pitfalls: lock-in, false starts, and "silver bullets." * Lock-in is the error of having tied one's future too tightly to a single technology or weapons system that suddenly becomes obsolete - unexpectedly overtaken by another breakthrough. All one's eggs are then in the wrong basket. * False starts are research paths that don't pan out. Thus the importance of simultaneously pursuing multiple options, with the necessary budget support, in the full understanding that some programs will hit dead ends. * The "silver bullet" approach is expecting too much from a single big idea - such as missile defenses. Today's revival of the national missile defense program runs the risk of seeming to congressional budget-makers like a silver bullet, or panacea, for the future. Worse, concentrating too big a share of the R&D budget on missile defense could generate a fourth pitfall - allowing one segment to hog all the money, thus limiting the dynamism and variety of our research program. Promoting dynamic uncertainty is an asymmetric counter to the weaker players' strategy of neutralizing our strength with their own novel strategies. Choosing the other path - continued procurement of weapons designed for an outdated strategic reality - deprives us of this dynamism and creates the risk that currently envisioned weapons will not survive in future battle environments. Rather than creating bigger and better successor weapons to our existing arsenal, we should be doing research "out of the box." The new weapons for a new threat will probably tend toward lean and swift rather than slow and mighty. Instead of another 70-ton M-1 Abrams tank that is unable to move through the narrow streets of Kosovo villages, planners should be looking at a 20-ton, high-speed, stealthy tank with long-range strike capabilities. Instead of a new, large, manned bomber, we should develop more small, unmanned bombers with sophisticated digital targeting systems.
====AT: Space Weapons Solve==== 

**Human intelligence is superior to high-tech methods**
**Gallagher**, Professor of Comparative Politics and head of the Department of Political Science at the University of Dublin, Trinity College, **’11**
[Michael Gallagher. “Human Intelligence in Counterinsurgency: Persistent Pathologies in the Collector-Consumer Relationship”. Small Wars Journal. June 5, 2011. http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/journal/docs-temp/784-gallagher.pdf]

In the realm of counterinsurgency (COIN), the currency is intelligence. In other words— as the Counterinsurgency Field Manual succinctly puts it—intelligence drives operations. 3 “Good” intelligence provides precision, helping the counterinsurgent eliminate insurgents from the populace “like surgeons cutting out cancerous tissue while keeping other vital organs intact.” 4 Within this surgical effort, Human Intelligence (HUMINT) proves uniquely valuable; it can obtain information that more technologically-oriented assets cannot. 5 Thus, while all counterinsurgents collect operational reporting as they perform their daily functions—what is frequently termed “passive” collection—HUMINT requires “active” collectors who are specially trained to conduct military source operations and interrogations. 6

**Absent a large ground presence for intel gathering precisions strikes only fuel terrorism**
**Hegghammer, 9** a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (Thomas, “The big impact of small footprints”, 11/11/2009, Foreign Policy, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19691/big_impact_of_small_footprints.html)

A growing number of people, led by Vice President Joe Biden, are advocating a so-called "small footprint" approach to the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan. They propose a significantly reduced military presence that focuses more on destroying al Qaeda than on building Afghanistan, and relies more on airstrikes and special forces than on conventional tactics. America will get about as much security as before, the argument goes, but at a much lower price. A return of the Taliban to power is not necessarily a problem, small footprint proponents argue, because the regime can be deterred from hosting al Qaeda by the threat of U.S. airstrikes or another invasion. One of the many assumptions behind this tempting argument is that there is a certain level of proportionality between the amount of force we use and the level of resistance we encounter. If we stop occupying Afghanistan and limit violence to the really bad guys, al Qaeda will be unable, and other radicalized Muslims unwilling, to attack the United States. This may be true for local insurgencies such as the Taliban, but not for small transnational movements such as al Qaeda. In fact, a significantly smaller U.S. presence in Afghanistan may paradoxically generate more anti-Americanism outside Afghanistan and ultimately more anti-Western terrorism than a more conventional military approach. This is because jihadi propaganda today relies on visually powerful symbols to mobilize people, and intermittent "surgical" strikes, and the casualties they cause, may create more such symbols than continuous conventional warfare. The history of jihadism is full of examples of seemingly small incidents having a major effect on mobilization. In August 1998, the U.S. launched missiles on Afghanistan and Sudan in retaliation for al Qaeda attacks on U.S. embassies in East Africa. The strikes made Mullah Omar work more closely with Osama Bin Laden and were followed by an increase in recruitment to al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. In April 2002, the Israeli military's incursion into Jenin caused a veritable political earthquake in the Muslim world, and demonstrably helped recruitment to al Qaeda in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere. This was despite the relatively few casualties (a U.N. report concluded 52 Palestinian were killed, half of them civilians). In Pakistan, a few failed U.S. airstrikes in the Tribal Areas in 2006 and 2007 caused public outrage.and dramatically increased anti-Americanism across the country. The power of small incidents has increased in the past decade thanks to the Internet. Increasing bandwidth, cheaper digital cameras and fast-learning activists have turned the world wide web into a giant propaganda tool which can generate powerful visual messages and project them instantly to a global audience. The smallest detail can be dramatically enlarged and turned into a symbol of "Muslim suffering at the hands of non-Muslims." On jihadi discussion forums such as Faloja (named after the Iraqi city whose 2004 battles between jihadis and U.S. forces made it an icon of Muslim suffering), high-quality video productions appear on a daily basis. The relationship between objective physical destruction and jihadi mobilization has never been less linear. (Of course, the non-linearity works both ways; more conventional power does not necessarily generate less powerful propaganda.) Why, then, would a small footprint approach in Afghanistan create more visual symbols of Muslim suffering? For a start, a troop reduction would not take away the occupation, at least not in the eyes of non-Afghan Islamists. Al Qaeda has a very wide definition of occupation and would frame any U.S. military presence in the region as such. Moreover, the surgical strikes would not be that surgical. A significantly smaller U.S. ground presence is likely to produce less good human intelligence, because it will be harder to protect informants. This will increase the risk of hitting, for example, wedding parties. In addition, fewer strikes means that each individual operation is more visible. This mitigates the problem of information saturation which currently frustrates jihadi propagandists. In war, many bad things happen, but individual incidents drown in the noise of the conflict. This may explain why interest in the Iraqi insurgency on jihadi forums has decreased steadily since 2005; there was so much going on that even jihadis were desensitized. A related dynamic may be behind the paradox that in Pakistan, public outrage over CIA drone strikes seems to have decreased in 2008 and 2009 as the frequency of strikes has gone up. For al Qaeda's propagandists, less can be more.

**Space weapons fail – distance prevents intelligence gathering, and they can’t respond to fleeting targets.**
**Henderson, ‘4** – Scott A., Lt Col., USAF [The Third Battle: Is the U.S. Ready to Wage the Next Conflict in Space?. . Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, March 2004. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA476998]

While the United States maintains the strongest military around, it faces extreme challenges around the world ranging from cantankerous state actors to borderless/non state opponents. Henry Kissinger recently noted “Never before has it been necessary to conduct a war with neither front lines nor geographic definition and, at the same time, to rebuild fundamental principles of world order.” 25 In space, the threats that our satellites were designed to see and sense, ICBM fields, electronic emissions, and infrared signatures, are evolving and becoming tougher to capture. No longer is the target an enemy armored Division or a fixed weapons site. Instead, the new target sets are what the military calls time critical or fleeting targets. Unlike traditional targets, these fleeting 27targets--terrorists, insurgents, weapons traffickers—are not suited to detection from space. Dr. Loren Thompson of the Lexington Institute points out that U.S. intelligence has characterized the signatures for traditional fleeting targets such as mobile Surface to Air Missiles or SCUD short range missile launchers. But, the new breed of fleeting targets seldom exhibit predictable patterns, are extremely deceptive in nature, and do not use equipment that emits a significant trackable signature. 26 The technical challenge of collecting these signatures from space is made extremely difficult by the simple laws of proximity. Since radio frequency emissions fade as a square of distance from the source, collection of very low power signatures from orbital distances of 120 miles to 22,000 miles becomes nearly impossible. 27 Add to the fact that increasingly, adversaries today elect not to face U.S. forces in the open but instead prefer to fight in what security studies experts have called “the contested zones”—arenas of conventional combat where “weak adversaries have the best chance of doing real damage to U.S. forces.” 28 In these contested zones, where the enemy knows the terrain and high-tech weaponry is often non-existant, command of the commons becomes irrelevant. As a growing number of targets are classified as fleeting, intelligence data takes on a more significant role in the targeting chain. Conventional kinetic weapons could be delivered from space or via converted ICBMs in less than an hour, yet without targeting quality intelligence, this strike capability buys little over what the U.S. has today with airpower or cruise missile attack capabilities. Ironically, these elusive threats are driving 28the military to look at systems that operate much closer to the battlefield as opposed to traditional space systems. In The Transformation of American Airpower, Benjamin Lambeth points out that “just because a mission can be done from space does not mean that it should be.” 29 General Lance Lord, the Commander of Air Force Space Command, talks about platforms such as lighter than air craft to attack the problem. 30 Operating at an altitude of 65,000 to 80,000 feet, platforms much like weather balloons would carry sensors to track fleeting targets form altitudes that enable engineers to solve the problems associated with capturing these targets from space. Recasting the debate in these terms challenges the traditional drive of space visionaries to migrate to space any mission that is possible to perform in space. One wonders if this notion of pulling back from space supports the doctrine of space supremacy and what it will do to an already confusing cultural debate between traditional pilots and an emerging space cadre. National security space leaders are now faced with a difficult decision—enable the U.S. to maximize the gains from the space commons by developing systems to find and track new target sets in the contested zones; or develop space control systems to assure command of the space commons by protecting satellites and ground architectures from a threat in space. It is unlikely that U.S. defense budgets will support both.

==CP's== 
===EIS=== 
====1NC==== 

**Text – The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of**
**[PLAN]**
**and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act. We’ll clarify.**

**-- Competes –**
**Tests “resolved” which means “to make a firm decision”, and “should” which is “used to imply obligation or duty”**
[American Heritage Dictionary at dictionary.com]

**-- Solves and net beneficial – prior assessment approves the plan and boosts environmental leadership**
**Viikari 8** (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 265-266)
1. Introduction

Outer space is an environment where humans have gained access only quite recently as our technology has not been sophisticated enough for space missions for very long. Other remote and hostile areas the exploration (let alone exploitation) of which is a relatively recent phenomenon are the Antarctic and the deep seabed. Although these environments are in principle quite different from each other they nevertheless pose comparable challenges to human activities. Accordingly, also the problems encountered in their management often appear similar - not least from a legal point of view. Management of environmental problems is no exception. Like many other types of human activities, the use of outer space causes a variety of environmental consequences. Although some of the risks involved have been understood only recently, the world space community has long known that space activities contribute to degradation of environment.1 Yet utilitarian policies have disproportionately dominated those activities until today. This has gradually led to substantial environmental threats that constitute increasing hazards not only to the environment of outer space but to human space activities as well, even to life on Earth. One tool to mitigate and especially prevent harmful consequences of human activities is the prior assessment of their potential environmental and other impacts. Despite its success in many other fields (and the need for it in the space sector as well), environmental impact assessment is not a well-established tool in the international law of outer space. This is not surprising, though, considering that obligations under international environmental law that require EIAs were first introduced in the context of potential transboundary impacts of particular projects and that this is where such obligations still remain the most common and binding. Obligations regarding transboundary impacts do not apply to the space sector very well, due to the inherently international nature of these activities which mostly take place outside state territories, even the Earth. Nevertheless, with growing recognition of global interdependence, international obligations to conduct EIAs have arisen also in relation to activities that are proposed to be conducted in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. Such obligations can be found in the 1991 Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty on Environmental Protection with its detailed obligatory scheme of EIA, and in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.3 These are examined elsewhere in this book. Similar obligations have, however, not been adopted for the space sector yet.

**That’s key to overall hegemony and avoids politics**
**Walter 2** (Norbert, Chief Economist – Deutsche Bank Group, The New York Times, 8-28, Lexis)
At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on the world stage. Yet at this very moment the most powerful country in the world stands to forfeit much political capital, moral authority and international good will by dragging its feet on the next great global issue: the environment. Before long, the administration's apparent unwillingness to take a leadership role -- or, at the very least, to stop acting as a brake -- in fighting global environmental degradation will threaten the very basis of the American supremacy that many now seem to assume will last forever. American authority is already in some danger as a result of the Bush administration's decision to send a low-level delegation to the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg -- low-level, that is, relative to America's share of both the world economy and global pollution. The absence of President Bush from Johannesburg symbolizes this decline in authority. In recent weeks, newspapers around the world have been dominated by environmental headlines: In central Europe, flooding killed dozens, displaced tens of thousands and caused billions of dollars in damages. In South Asia, the United Nations reports a brown cloud of pollution that is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths a year from respiratory disease. The pollution (80 percent man-made) also cuts sunlight penetration, thus reducing rainfall, affecting agriculture and otherwise altering the climate. Many other examples of environmental degradation, often related to the warming of the atmosphere, could be cited. What they all have in common is that they severely affect countries around the world and are fast becoming a chief concern for people everywhere. Nobody is suggesting that these disasters are directly linked to anything the United States is doing. But when a country that emits 25 percent of the world's greenhouse gases acts as an uninterested, sometimes hostile bystander in the environmental debate, it looks like unbearable arrogance to many people abroad. The administration seems to believe it is merely an observer -- that environmental issues are not its issues. But not doing anything amounts to ignoring a key source of world tension, and no superpower that wants to preserve its status can go on dismissing such a pivotal dimension of political and economic -- if not existential -- conflict.

**Global nuclear war**
**Khalilzad 11** (Zalmay, Counselor – Center for Strategic and International Studies, Former U.S. Permanent Representative – United Nations, Former U.S. Ambassador – Iraq, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad)
The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars. American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.

**Independently – this model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction**
**Harris 1** (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)
In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a more robust acceptance by the U.S. government of international equity as an objective of global environmental policy—and indeed of foreign policy generally—has potentially beneficial implications for humankind. Implementation of the equity provisions of international environmental arrangements may reduce human suffering by helping to prevent changes to local, regional, and global environmental commons that would adversely affect people, most notably the many poor people in the economically developing countries who are least able to cope with environmental changes. Insofar as environmental protection policies focus on sustainable economic development, human suffering may be mitigated as developing countries—especially the least-developed countries—are aided in meeting the basic needs of their citizens. Economic disparities within and between countries are growing. At least one-fifth of the world’s population already lives in the squalor of absolute poverty.59 This situation can be expected to worsen in the future. If this process can be mitigated or reversed by international policies focusing on environmentally sustainable economic development, human well-being on a global scale will rise. ‘What is more, international cooperative efforts to protect the environment that are made more likely and more effective by provisions for international equity will help governments protect their own environment and the global environment if they are successful. Insofar as the planet is one biosphere—that it is in the case of ozone depletion and climate change seems indisputable-persons in every local and national community are simultaneously members of an interdependent whole. Most activities, especially widespread activities in the United States and the rest of the industrialized world, including the release of ozone-destroying chemicals and greenhouse gases, are likely to adversely affect many or possibly all persons on the planet. Efforts to prevent such harm or make amends for historical harm (i.e., past pollution, which is especially important in these examples because many pollutants continue doing harm for years and often decades) require that most communities work together. Indeed, affluent lifestyles in the United States, ‘Western Europe, and other developed areas may harm people in poor areas of the world more than they will harm those enjoying such lifestyles because the poor are ill-equipped to deal with the consequences.6° Furthermore, by concerning themselves with the consequences of their actions on the global poor and polluted, Americans and the citizens of other developed countries will be helping their immediate neighbors—and themselves—in the long run. Actualization of international equity in conjunction with sustainable development may help prevent damage to the natural environment worldwide, thereby promoting human prosperity. The upshot is that the United States has not gone far enough in actively accepting equity as an objective of global environmental policy. It ought to go further in doing so for purely self-interested reasons. But there are more than self-interested reasons for the United States to move in this direction. It ought to embrace international equity as an objective of its global environmental policy for ethical reasons as well. We can find substantial ethical justification for the United States, in concert with other developed countries, to support politically and financially the codification and implementation of international equity considerations in international environmental agreements. The United States ought to be a leader in supporting a fair and just distribution among countries of the benefits, burdens, and decision-making authority associated with international environmental relations.61 To invoke themes found in the corpus of ethical philosophy (but without here assuming the burden of philosophical exegesis!), the United States ought to adopt policies that engender international equity in at least the environmental field (1) to protect the health and well-being of the human species; (2) to promote basic human rights universally; (3) to help the poor be their own moral agents (a Kantian rationale); (4) to help right past wrongs and to take responsibility for past injustices (i.e., past and indeed ongoing U.S. pollution of the global environment); (5) to aid the world’s least-advantaged people and countries (a Rawlsian-like conception); (6) and to fhlflll the requirement of impartiality (among other ethical reasons)62—all in addition to the more dearly self-interested justification that doing so will bolster U.S. credibility and influence in international environmental negotiations and contemporary global politics more generally. One might argue, therefore, that the United States ought to be aiding the developing countries to achieve sustainable development because to do so may simultaneously reduce human suffering and reduce or potentially reverse environmental destruction that could otherwise threaten the healthy survival of the human species. Insofar as human-caused pollution and resource exploitation deny individuals and their communities the capacity to survive in a healthy condition, the United States, which consumes vastly more than necessary, has an obligation to stop that unnecessary consumption. From this basic rights perspective,63 the U.S. government should also take steps to reduce substantially the emissions of pollutants from within the United States that harm people in other countries.64 The United States ought to refrain from unsustainable use of natural resources and from pollution of environmental commons shared by people living in other countries—or at least make a good effort toward that end—because the people affected by these activities cannot reasonably be expected to support them (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).
====2NC Solvency==== 
**-- Only a risk it solves better – prior EA builds industry support and minimizes costs and time**
**Viikari 8** (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 285)
5. Future for Environmental Assessment in Space Activities

No doubt the space sector necessitates improved environmental protection and, accordingly, increasing application of environmental assessment systems, for instance. The considerable scale and magnitude of potential adverse impacts of space activities call for an equally wide scope of assessment. Also health and social impacts may need to be taken into account. The deficiencies in the impact assessment process caused by lack of data, time and resources (even will, in some cases) could partly be amended by ongoing monitoring programs, for instance. In any case, the potential for damage in space activities is so significant that we hardly can afford to omit a thorough assessment of environmental and other impacts of space missions, despite the challenges involved. The existence of the current assessment systems, even those that remain at the level of recommendatory norms only, already provides a positive pointer to the further development of this area of space regulation. These norms should by no means be considered as additional restrictions on the development of the space industry - quite the contrary. The use of environmental assessment systems may in the long run even reduce project costs as well as the time needed for reaching decisions because the assessment identifies and evaluates also those potential consequences which might require expensive pollution abatement technology or potentially substantive compensation for damage, for instance.92 This could (and should) make the assessment of environmental impacts increasingly appealing even to the commercial entities active in the space sector. Effective impact assessment is of course also likely to benefit the environment as it helps in avoiding environmental disasters as well as less detrimental effects - not least in the outer space where many environmental amenities can be considered to have a rather unique value and can thus be compromised forever by the introduction of pollution, for instance.

**-- Key to build public support – plan causes backlash turning case**
**Mirmina 5** (Steven A., Esq. – Senior Attorney on the International Law Practice Team of NASA's Office of the General Counsel, ISSUES IN SPACE LAW: Nuclear Power Sources and Future Space Exploration, 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 149, lexis)
A. TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

Public participation and engagement in discussions of the value of using Nuclear Power Sources in space will be key to its future application. NASA may face opposition to future NPS development if public opinion is based on fears raised from past accidents involving terrestrial nuclear power plants. Public understanding will thus be necessary not only as an end in itself, but also as a means of building support. Larry Kos, an aerospace engineer focusing on future flight technologies at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Alabama, has stated that the downside of nuclear propulsion stems not primarily from technical concerns, but rather from public perception, which is generally antinuclear. "Nuclear thermal propulsion," Dr. Kos explained, uses "enriched uranium, not plutonium, so it is less radioactive by a factor of 100,000." n69 [*169] Discussions of safety should separate spacecraft vulnerability from human health. For example, as Pu-238 decays, it "emits radiation mainly in the form of alpha particles, which have a very low penetrating power. Only lightweight shielding is necessary because alpha particles cannot penetrate a sheet of paper." n70 This makes it relatively easy to protect spacecraft elements from exposure to this source of radiation. In regards to human health, another benefit of transparency and wide public participation will be the minimization of fear and misperception. The public should be widely informed of the results of the various safety review processes. Space agencies should reach out to environmental groups and regulatory agencies specialized in space nuclear power systems and seek their input into discussions of environmental impact. Communications with the public should adequately address the use of NPS, any environmental impact of the mission, safety concerns, and potential for any health risks. n71
====AT: Delay==== 

**-- EIS fast – no delay**
**Lawrence 3** (David Phillip, Governance Director – Diageo Global Procurement, Environmental Impact Assessment: Practical Solutions to Recurrent Problems, p. 251)
EIA Expediting and Focusing Approaches All four jurisdictions have sought to focus on proposals likely to induce significant impacts and on significant impacts resulting from proposed actions. They also have strived to expedite the preparation and review of documents and the implementation of requirements. Screening procedures focus the system on significant proposals. Different types of assessment, class and categorical assessments, and separate requirements for minor projects address variations in degrees of significance among proposed actions. Scoping and significance requirements, procedures, and guidelines enable EIA systems to zero-in on significant impacts. Time limits, suggested timelines, document circulation limits, quick-test EIA triggers, and accelerated project planning reduce the likelihood of delays or extended timelines. Checklists, electronic registries, and clearly defined standards and performance criteria accelerate the review process. Page limits, combined documents, tiering, cross-referencing and document content, style, summary, and appendix requirements reduce unnecessary paperwork. Studies of EIA costs and competitiveness and valuation, pricing, and incentive mechanisms address the overall efficiency of the EIA system.
====AT: Perm - Do Both==== 

**-- Doesn’t solve – prior and binding assessments are critical to access any benefit**
**Gibbons 91** (John H., Director – U.S. Office of Technology Assessment, “Complex Cleanup: The Environmental Legacy of Nuclear Weapons Production”, February, http://www.princeton.edu/~ota/disk1/1991/9113/911307.PDF)
3. Require DOE and Other Involved Agencies To Consult the Boards Prior to Making Key Decisions and To Report Those Decisions to the Boards To ensure that each board’s input is duly considered by DOE and other involved Federal and State agencies, Congress could require those agencies to consult with the appropriate board on a regular basis prior to making key decisions and then to inform that board how its advice and recommendations were taken into account in arriving at the decision. Congress could either establish this requirement and direct agencies to comply or authorize the boards themselves to develop and enforce the requirement. The frequency of consultation could be specified in advance either by Congress or by the boards, or the boards could determine periodically what specific decisions they wish to consider. Establishing strong public advisory mechanisms at the site-specific and national levels and requiring the agencies to consider, respond to, and incorporate such input in their decisionmaking processes might conceivably slow down some activities. Also, even with extensive public involvement, consensus on outcomes may not be easy to achieve. However, incorporating meaningful public participation into the cleanup process is a worthy goal in and of itself because credibility is required in that effort. Making cleanup decisions through a process that is open and acceptable to the public can go a long way toward achieving sound and credible outcomes.

**Genuine key – perm doesn’t solve**
**Ivanova and Esty 8** (Daniel C., Professor of Environmental Law and Policy – Yale University and Maria, Assistant Professor of Government and Environmental Policy – College of William and Mary, “Reclaiming U.S. Leadership in Global Environmental Governance”, SAIS Review, 28(2), Summer-Fall)
Third, mere U.S. participation in international environmental efforts will be insufficient. The United States must actively take a leadership role in bringing about a successful response to climate change and other issues. The history of past success in galvanizing the global community into action shows that the United States can and must take the lead. However, any attempt at U.S.-led reform without credible proof of genuine U.S. leadership based on common values and the common good is likely to be met with distrust and opposition.
====AT: Theory==== 

**5. Tons of ground exists**
**Gaines and Lurie 7** (Lisa and Sue, Ph.D., Associate Director and Consultant in the Institute for Natural Resources – Oregon State University, “NEPA for the 21st Century: A Comparative Analysis of Other Organizations’ Environmental Review Structures”, 5-16, http://www.fs.fed.us/pnw/about/programs/fsd/NEPA/Final%20Draft%20 Report-160507.pdf)
Since NEPA’s passage more than 35 years ago, a considerable body of literature has developed regarding its controversy, prescriptive recommendations for better implementation, and technical guidance. Less has been written about the perceptions and practical challenges experienced by federal agencies responsible for its implementation. Two studies are particularly instructive.
====Space Debris NB==== 

**-- Assessment over each program is key**
**Viikari 8** (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, The Environmental Element in Space Law, p. 277)
One additional relevant type of norms, albeit non-binding, which touch upon the issue of environmental assessment in the space sector are those embodied in soft-law instruments created by certain international forums. Within international law, these are the most advanced norms relating to environmental assessment in space activities; they are mostly concerned with the problem of space debris. Above all, the IADC Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines recommend that “[i]n order to manage the implementation of space debris mitigation measures … a feasible Space Debris Mitigation Plan be established and documented for each program and project”. This Mitigation Plan should include 1) “management plan addressing space debris mitigation activities”; 2) “plan for the assessment and mitigation of risks related to space debris, including applicable standards”; 3) “measures minimizing the hazard related to malfunctions that have a potential for generating space debris”; 4) “plan for disposal of the space system at end of mission”; 5) “[j]usitifcation of choice and selection when several possibilities exist”; and 6) [c]ompliance matrix addressing the recommendations of these Guidelines”. Although not called ‘environmental impact assessment’, the Mitigation Plan in essence works much like an EIA.

==K's== 
===Security=== 
====1NC==== 
**Their apocalyptic constructions ensure agencies of power’s ability to exterminate those who put the population in danger – this justifies total annihilation**
Pever **Coviello**, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, **2k** [Queer Frontiers, p. 39-40]

Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way postapocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed-it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Den-ida's suitably menacing phrase) "remairiderless and a-symbolic destruction,," then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively local. In shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings somewhere else, always to an "other" people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and prosperity of a cherished "general population." This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag's incisive observation, from 1989, that, 'Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not 'Apocalypse Now' but 'Apocalypse from Now On."" The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction-through the constant reproduction of the figure of apocalypse-agencies of power ensure their authority to act on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of The History of Sexuality addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, "life-administering." Power, he contends, "exerts a positive influence on life land, endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations?' In his brief comments on what he calls "the atomic situation;' however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as "managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race," agencies of modern power presume to act 'on the behalf of the existence of everyone." Whatsoever might be construed as a threat to life and survival in this way serves to authorize any expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. "If genocide is indeed the dream of modem power," Foucault writes, "this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population." For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

**Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought**
Mark **Neocleous**, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, **2008** [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether - to reject it as so ideologically loaded in favour of the state that any real political thought other than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up. That is clearly something that can not be achieved within the limits of bourgeois thought and thus could never even begin to be imagined by the security intellectual. It is also something that the constant iteration of the refrain 'this is an insecure world' and reiteration of one fear, anxiety and insecurity after another will also make it hard to do. But it is something that the critique of security suggests we may have to consider if we want a political way out of the impasse of security. This impasse exists because security has now become so all-encompassing that it marginalises all else, most notably the constructive conflicts, debates and discussions that animate political life. The constant prioritising of a mythical security as a political end - as the political end constitutes a rejection of politics in any meaningful sense of the term. That is, as a mode of action in which differences can be articulated, in which the conflicts and struggles that arise from such differences can be fought for and negotiated, in which people might come to believe that another world is possible - that they might transform the world and in turn be transformed. Security politics simply removes this; worse, it remoeves it while purportedly addressing it. In so doing it suppresses all issues of power and turns political questions into debates about the most efficient way to achieve 'security', despite the fact that we are never quite told - never could be told - what might count as having achieved it. Security politics is, in this sense, an anti-politics,"' dominating political discourse in much the same manner as the security state tries to dominate human beings, reinforcing security fetishism and the monopolistic character of security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security politics, not add yet more 'sectors' to it in a way that simply expands the scope of the state and legitimises state intervention in yet more and more areas of our lives. Simon Dalby reports a personal communication with Michael Williams, co-editor of the important text Critical Security Studies, in which the latter asks: if you take away security, what do you put in the hole that's left behind? But I'm inclined to agree with Dalby: maybe there is no hole."' The mistake has been to think that there is a hole and that this hole needs to be filled with a new vision or revision of security in which it is re-mapped or civilised or gendered or humanised or expanded or whatever. All of these ultimately remain within the statist political imaginary, and consequently end up reaffirming the state as the terrain of modern politics, the grounds of security. The real task is not to fill the supposed hole with yet another vision of security, but to fight for an alternative political language which takes us beyond the narrow horizon of bourgeois security and which therefore does not constantly throw us into the arms of the state. That's the point of critical politics: to develop a new political language more adequate to the kind of society we want. Thus while much of what I have said here has been of a negative order, part of the tradition of critical theory is that the negative may be as significant as the positive in setting thought on new paths. For if security really is the supreme concept of bourgeois society and the fundamental thematic of liberalism, then to keep harping on about insecurity and to keep demanding 'more security' (while meekly hoping that this increased security doesn't damage our liberty) is to blind ourselves to the possibility of building real alternatives to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. To situate ourselves against security politics would allow us to circumvent the debilitating effect achieved through the constant securitising of social and political issues, debilitating in the sense that 'security' helps consolidate the power of the existing forms of social domination and justifies the short-circuiting of even the most democratic forms. It would also allow us to forge another kind of politics centred on a different conception of the good. We need a new way of thinking and talking about social being and politics that moves us beyond security. This would perhaps be emancipatory in the true sense of the word. What this might mean, precisely, must be open to debate. But it certainly requires recognising that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognising that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learning to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and 'insecurities' that come with being human; it requires accepting that 'securitizing' an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'

====Warming Link==== 
**Even if warming is true, framing it as apocalypse is strategically even more dangerous.**
**Crist ‘7** – Ass. Prof. Sci & Tech in Society @ VT (Eileen, Telos 141, Winter, Beyond the Climate Crisis)

While the dangers of climate change are real, I argue that there are even greater dangers in representing it as the most urgent problem we face. Framing climate change in such a manner deserves to be challenged for two reasons: it encourages the restriction of proposed solutions to the technical realm, by powerfully insinuating that the needed approaches are those that directly address the problem; and it detracts attention from the planet’s ecological predicament as a whole, by virtue of claiming the limelight for the one issue that trumps all others.
Identifying climate change as the biggest threat to civilization, and ushering it into center stage as the highest priority problem, has bolstered the proliferation of technical proposals that address the specific challenge. The race is on for figuring out what technologies, or portfolio thereof, will solve “the problem.” Whether the call is for reviving nuclear power, boosting the installation of wind turbines, using a variety of renewable energy sources, increasing the efficiency of fossil-fuel use, developing carbon-sequestering technologies, or placing mirrors in space to deflect the sun’s rays, the narrow character of such proposals is evident: confront the problem of greenhouse gas emissions by technologically phasing them out, superseding them, capturing them, or mitigating their heating effects. In his The Revenge of Gaia, for example, Lovelock briefly mentions the need to face climate change by “changing our whole style of living.”16
But the thrust of this work, what readers and policy-makers come away with, is his repeated and strident call for investing in nuclear energy as, in his words, “the one lifeline we can use immediately.”17 In the policy realm, the first step toward the technological fix for global warming is often identified with implementing the Kyoto protocol. Biologist Tim Flannery agitates for the treaty, comparing the need for its successful endorsement to that of the Montreal protocol that phased out the ozone-depleting CFCs. “The Montreal protocol,” he submits, “marks a signal moment in human societal development, representing the first ever victory by humanity over a global pollution problem.”18 He hopes for a similar victory for the global climate-change problem.
Yet the deepening realization of the threat of climate change, virtually in the wake of stratospheric ozone depletion, also suggests that dealing with global problems treaty-by-treaty is no solution to the planet’s predicament. Just as the risks of unanticipated ozone depletion have been followed by the dangers of a long underappreciated climate crisis, so it would be naïve not to anticipate another (perhaps even entirely unforeseeable) catastrophe arising after the (hoped-for) resolution of the above two. Furthermore, if greenhouse gases were restricted successfully by means of technological shifts and innovations, the root cause of the ecological crisis as a whole would remain unaddressed. The destructive patterns of production, trade, extraction, land-use, waste proliferation, and consumption, coupled with population growth, would go unchallenged, continuing to run down the integrity, beauty, and biological richness of the Earth. Industrial-consumer civilization has entrenched a form of life that admits virtually no limits to its expansiveness within, and perceived entitlement to, the entire planet.19 But questioning this civilization is by and large sidestepped in climate-change discourse, with its single-minded quest for a global-warming techno-fix.20 Instead of confronting the forms of social organization that are causing the climate crisis—among numerous other catastrophes—climate-change literature often focuses on how global warming is endangering the culprit, and agonizes over what technological means can save it from impending tipping points.21
The dominant frame of climate change funnels cognitive and pragmatic work toward specifically addressing global warming, while muting a host of equally monumental issues. Climate change looms so huge on the environmental and political agenda today that it has contributed to downplaying other facets of the ecological crisis: mass extinction of species, the devastation of the oceans by industrial fishing, continued old-growth deforestation, topsoil losses and desertification, endocrine disruption, incessant development, and so on, are made to appear secondary and more forgiving by comparison with “dangerous anthropogenic interference” with the climate system.
In what follows, I will focus specifically on how climate-change discourse encourages the continued marginalization of the biodiversity crisis—a crisis that has been soberly described as a holocaust,22 and which despite decades of scientific and environmentalist pleas remains a virtual non-topic in society, the mass media, and humanistic and other academic literatures. Several works on climate change (though by no means all) extensively examine the consequences of global warming for biodiversity, 23 but rarely is it mentioned that biodepletion predates dangerous greenhouse-gas buildup by decades, centuries, or longer, and will not be stopped by a technological resolution of global warming. Climate change is poised to exacerbate species and ecosystem losses—indeed, is doing so already. But while technologically preempting the worst of climate change may temporarily avert some of those losses, such a resolution of the climate quandary will not put an end to—will barely address—the ongoing destruction of life on Earth.
==Case Answers== 
===Solar Flares Frontline=== 
**1-- No killer solar flare coming**
**O’Neil 8** (Ian O’Neill (PhD) is founder and editor of Astroengine. He is a space producer for Discovery News. O’Neill is a British solar physics doctor with nearly a decade of physics study and research experience, Masters and PhD from University of Wales, Aberystwyth, “2012: No Killer Solar Flare,” June 21, 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/14645/2012-no-killer-solar-flare///DN)

Can Our Sun Produce a Killer Flare? The short answer to this is “no”. The longer answer is a little more involved. Whilst a solar flare from out Sun, aimed directly at us, could cause secondary problems such as satellite damage and injury to unprotected astronauts and blackouts, the flare itself is not powerful enough to destroy Earth, certainly not in 2012. I dare say, in the far future when the Sun begins to run out of fuel and swell into a red giant, it might be a bad era for life on Earth, but we have a few billion years to wait for that to happen. There could even be the possibility of several X-class flares being launched and by pure bad luck we may get hit by a series of CMEs and X-ray bursts, but none will be powerful to overcome our magnetosphere, ionosphere and thick atmosphere below. “Killer” solar flares have been observed on other stars. In 2006, NASA’s Swift observatory saw the largest stellar flare ever observed 135 light-years away. Estimated to have unleashed an energy of 50 million trillion atomic bombs, the II Pegasi flare will have wiped out most life on Earth if our Sun fired X-rays from a flare of that energy at us. However, our Sun is not II Pegasi. II Pegasi is a violent red giant star with a binary partner in a very close orbit. It is believed the gravitational interaction with its binary partner and the fact II Pegasi is a red giant is the root cause behind this energetic flare event. Doomsayers point to the Sun as a possible Earth-killer source, but the fact remains that our Sun is a very stable star. It does not have a binary partner (like II Pegasi), it has a predictable cycle (of approximately 11 years) and there is no evidence that our Sun contributed to any mass extinction event in the past via a huge Earth-directed flare. Very large solar flares have been observed (such as the 1859 Carrington white light flare)… but we are still here. In an added twist, solar physicists are surprised by the lack of solar activity at the start of this 24th solar cycle, leading to some scientists to speculate we might be on the verge of another Maunder minimum and “Little Ice Age”. This is in stark contrast to NASA solar physicist’s 2006 prediction that this cycle will be a “doozy”. This leads me to conclude that we still have a long way to go when predicting solar flare events. Although space weather prediction is improving, it will be a few years yet until we can read the Sun accurately enough to say with any certainty just how active a solar cycle is going to be. So, regardless of prophecy, prediction or myth, there is no physical way to say that the Earth will be hit by any flare, let alone a big one in 2012. Even if a big flare did hit us, it will not be an extinction event. Yes, satellites may be damaged, causing secondary problems such as a GPS loss (which might disrupt air traffic control for example) or national power grids may be overwhelmed by auroral electrojets, but nothing more extreme than that.

**2-- Status quo NASA monitoring solves risk of blackouts**
**Phillips 6/22** -- science writer and editor at NASA (Dr. Tony, 2011, "Getting ready for the next big solar storm," http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-06-ready-big-solar-storm.html, RG)

"We can now track the progress of solar storms in 3 dimensions as the storms bear down on Earth," says Michael Hesse, chief of the GSFC Space Weather Lab and a speaker at the forum. "This sets the stage for actionable space weather alerts that could preserve power grids and other high-tech assets during extreme periods of solar activity."
They do it using data from a fleet of NASA spacecraft surrounding the sun. Analysts at the lab feed the information into a bank of supercomputers for processing. Within hours of a major eruption, the computers spit out a 3D movie showing where the storm will go, which planets and spacecraft it will hit, and predicting when the impacts will occur. This kind of "interplanetary forecast" is unprecedented in the short history of space weather forecasting.
"This is a really exciting time to work as a space weather forecaster," says Antti Pulkkinen, a researcher at the Space Weather Lab. "The emergence of serious physics-based space weather models is putting us in a position to predict if something major will happen."
Some of the computer models are so sophisticated, they can even predict electrical currents flowing in the soil of Earth when a solar storm strikes. These currents are what do the most damage to power transformers. An experimental project named "Solar Shield" led by Pulkkinen aims to pinpoint transformers in greatest danger of failure during any particular storm.
"Disconnecting a specific transformer for a few hours could forestall weeks of regional blackouts," says Pulkkinen.

**3-- Tech exists now to mitigate the impact of solar flares**
**CTV '10** -- staff writer at Canada am (2011, "No need to fear strong solar flares in 2013: NASA," http://www.ctv.ca/CTVNews/CanadaAM/20100923/solar-flares-100923/, RG)

A solar physicist at NASA says there's no reason to think that strong solar flares expected in 2013 will disrupt life on earth, a day after a British official warned they could bring power and communications systems to a grinding halt.
"Solar flares happen all the time," NASA's Jeffrey Newmark said from Washington. "The key is, how do we mitigate?"
At a conference earlier this week, British Secretary of Defence Liam Fox caused a stir by warning that a once-in-a-century solar flare could bring modern life to a halt by paralyzing power grids and disabling satellite communications.
Fox said the British government has been working with experts and private companies to "build collective resilience" against the effects of a powerful solar flare.
"Much of our critical national infrastructure depends on data and services delivered from, or through satellites, whose sensitive electronics are vulnerable to some of the radiation emitted by the sun," Fox said.
NASA has predicted that a new wave of solar activity will likely peak around 2013. But the agency maintains that the stronger flares will be similar to those that earth has experienced as recently as 2002.
Newmark told Canada AM that the sun goes through 11-year cycles and solar flares are indeed expected to intensify over the next few years -- but they should be "business as usual."
The planet has experienced a solar cycle "maximum" before, he said Thursday morning, "and we understand what to expect from the future."
NASA has a fleet of spacecraft that monitor solar activity so that the agency can predict the sun's behaviour, Newmark said.
The space agency also has a warning system in place in the event of unusually powerful solar flares, he said, that could help safeguard power grids and satellites.
In 1859, a "super solar flare" knocked out telegraph lines around the world and lit paper on fire at telegraph offices. In today's high-tech world, a similar event could cause billions of dollars in damage, by some estimates.
Newmark acknowledged that our wired societies make them more vulnerable to solar events.
"However, at the same time the technology we use enables us to better understand these events, better predict them and enable us to mitigate them," he said.

**4-- No risk of nuclear meltdowns**
**Beller, 4** - Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Nevada, Las Vegas

(Dr. Denis E, “Atomic Time Machines: Back to the Nuclear Future,” 24 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 41, 2004)
No caveats, no explanation, not from this engineer/scientist. It's just plain safe! All sources of electricity production result in health and safety impacts. However, at the National Press Club meeting, Energy Secretary Richardson indicated that nuclear power is safe by stating, "I'm convinced it is." 45 Every nuclear scientist and engineer should agree with that statement. Even mining, transportation, and waste from nuclear power have lower impacts because of the difference in magnitude of materials. In addition, emissions from nuclear plants are kept to near zero. 46 If you ask a theoretical scientist, nuclear energy does have a potential tremendous adverse impact. However, it has had that same potential for forty years, which is why we designed and operate nuclear plants with multiple levels of containment and safety and multiple backup systems. Even the country's most catastrophic accident, the partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in 1979, did not injure anyone. 47 The fact is, Western-developed and Western-operated nuclear power is the safest major source of electricity production. Haven't we heard enough cries of "nuclear wolf" from scared old men and "the sky is radioactive" from [*50] nuclear Chicken Littles? We have a world of data to prove the fallacy of these claims about the unsafe nature of nuclear installations. [SEE FIGURE IN ORIGINAL] Figure 2. Deaths resulting from electricity generation. 48 Figure 2 shows the results of an ongoing analysis of the safety impacts of energy production from several sources of energy. Of all major sources of electricity, nuclear power has produced the least impact from real accidents that have killed real people during the past 30 years, while hydroelectric has had the most severe accident impact. 49 The same is true for environmental and health impacts. 50 Of all major sources of energy, nuclear energy has the least impacts on environment and health while coal has the greatest. 51 The low death [*51] rate from nuclear power accidents in the figure includes the Chernobyl accident in the Former Soviet Union. 52

**5-- Economic crisis won’t cause war – empirics go neg**
**Barnett 9** (Thomas, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, senior strategic researcher for Naval War College, August 25, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” Aprodex, Asset Protection Index, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)

When the global financial crisis struck roughly a year ago, the blogosphere was ablaze with all sorts of scary predictions of, and commentary regarding, ensuing conflict and wars -- a rerun of the Great Depression leading to world war, as it were. Now, as global economic news brightens and recovery -- surprisingly led by China and emerging markets -- is the talk of the day, it's interesting to look back over the past year and realize how globalization's first truly worldwide recession has had virtually no impact whatsoever on the international security landscape. None of the more than three-dozen ongoing conflicts listed by GlobalSecurity.org can be clearly attributed to the global recession. Indeed, the last new entry (civil conflict between Hamas and Fatah in the Palestine) predates the economic crisis by a year, and three quarters of the chronic struggles began in the last century. Ditto for the 15 low-intensity conflicts listed by Wikipedia (where the latest entry is the Mexican "drug war" begun in 2006). Certainly, the Russia-Georgia conflict last August was specifically timed, but by most accounts the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics was the most important external trigger (followed by the U.S. presidential campaign) for that sudden spike in an almost two-decade long struggle between Georgia and its two breakaway regions. Looking over the various databases, then, we see a most familiar picture: the usual mix of civil conflicts, insurgencies, and liberation-themed terrorist movements. Besides the recent Russia-Georgia dust-up, the only two potential state-on-state wars (North v. South Korea, Israel v. Iran) are both tied to one side acquiring a nuclear weapon capacity -- a process wholly unrelated to global economic trends. And with the United States effectively tied down by its two ongoing major interventions (Iraq and Afghanistan-bleeding-into-Pakistan), our involvement elsewhere around the planet has been quite modest, both leading up to and following the onset of the economic crisis: e.g., the usual counter-drug efforts in Latin America, the usual military exercises with allies across Asia, mixing it up with pirates off Somalia's coast). Everywhere else we find serious instability we pretty much let it burn, occasionally pressing the Chinese -- unsuccessfully -- to do something. Our new Africa Command, for example, hasn't led us to anything beyond advising and training local forces. So, to sum up: * No significant uptick in mass violence or unrest (remember the smattering of urban riots last year in places like Greece, Moldova and Latvia?); * The usual frequency maintained in civil conflicts (in all the usual places); * Not a single state-on-state war directly caused (and no great-power-on-great-power crises even triggered); * No great improvement or disruption in great-power cooperation regarding the emergence of new nuclear powers (despite all that diplomacy); * A modest scaling back of international policing efforts by the system's acknowledged Leviathan power (inevitable given the strain); and * No serious efforts by any rising great power to challenge that Leviathan or supplant its role. (The worst things we can cite are Moscow's occasional deployments of strategic assets to the Western hemisphere and its weak efforts to outbid the United States on basing rights in Kyrgyzstan; but the best include China and India stepping up their aid and investments in Afghanistan and Iraq.) Sure, we've finally seen global defense spending surpass the previous world record set in the late 1980s, but even that's likely to wane given the stress on public budgets created by all this unprecedented "stimulus" spending. If anything, the friendly cooperation on such stimulus packaging was the most notable great-power dynamic caused by the crisis. Can we say that the world has suffered a distinct shift to political radicalism as a result of the economic crisis? Indeed, no. The world's major economies remain governed by center-left or center-right political factions that remain decidedly friendly to both markets and trade. In the short run, there were attempts across the board to insulate economies from immediate damage (in effect, as much protectionism as allowed under current trade rules), but there was no great slide into "trade wars." Instead, the World Trade Organization is functioning as it was designed to function, and regional efforts toward free-trade agreements have not slowed.

**6-- No meltdown impact -- Wasserman is indicative of global meltdowns during war -- their ev only references a radioactive leak from one US power plant -- radiation is not bad for you at low levels**
**Schulz ‘7** (Matthais, Der Spiegel, “Nuclear Exaggeration”, 11-22, http://wissen.spiegel.de/wissen/dokument/dokument.html?titel=Is+Atomic+Radiation+as+Dangerous+as+We+Thought%3F&id=54059068&top=SPIEGEL&suchbegriff=Hiroshima&quellen=)

The more recent meltdown at the reactor in Chernobyl in 1986 reminded the world of the dangers of the atom. The incident was referred to as "nuclear genocide," and the press wrote of "forests stained red" and of deformed insects. The public was bombarded with images of Soviet cleanup crews wearing protective suits, bald-headed children with cancer and the members of cement crews who lost their lives in an attempt to seal off the cracked reactor with a concrete plug. Fifteen years after the reactor accident, the German newsmagazine Focus concluded that Chernobyl was responsible for "500,000" deaths. Was all this just doomsday folklore? There is no doubt that large sections of the countryside were contaminated by the accident in the Ukraine. In the ensuing decades, up to 4,000 cleanup workers and residents of the more highly contaminated areas died of the long-term consequences of radiation exposure. But the six-figure death counts that opponents of nuclear power once cited are simply nonsense. In most cases, they were derived from vague "extrapolations" based on the hearsay reported by Russian dissidents. But such horror stories have remained part of the nuclear narrative to this day. In fact, contemporaries who reported on the Chernobyl incident should have known better. Even in the 1980s, radiobiologists and radiation physicists considered the media's doomsday reports to be exaggerated. And their suspicions have become a virtual certainty today. Groups of researchers have set up shop at all of the sites of nuclear accidents or major nuclear contamination. They work at Hanford (where the United States began producing plutonium in 1944), they conduct studies in the English town of Sellafield (where a contaminated cloud escaped from the chimney in 1957), and they study the fates of former East German uranium mineworkers in the states of Saxony and Thuringia. New mortality rates have now been compiled for all of these groups of individuals at risk. Surprisingly, the highest mortality rates were found among the East German mineworkers. In Hiroshima, on the other hand, radioactivity claimed surprisingly few human lives. Experts now know exactly what happened in the first hours, days and weeks after the devastating atomic explosion. Almost all of Hiroshima's 140,000 victims died quickly. Either they were crushed immediately by the shock wave, or they died within the next few days of acute burns. But the notorious radiation sickness -- a gradual ailment that leads to certain death for anyone exposed to radiation levels of 6 Gray or higher -- was rare. The reason is that Little Boy simply did not produce enough radioactivity. But what about the long-term consequences? Didn't the radiation work like a time bomb in the body? To answer these questions, the Japanese and the Americans launched a giant epidemiological study after the war. The study included all residents of Hiroshima and Nagasaki who had survived the atomic explosion within a 10-kilometer (6.2-mile) radius. Investigators questioned the residents to obtain their precise locations when the bomb exploded, and used this information to calculate a personal radiation dose for each resident. Data was collected for 86,572 people. Today, 60 years later, the study's results are clear. More than 700 people eventually died as a result of radiation received from the atomic attack: 87 died of leukemia; 440 died of tumors; and 250 died of radiation-induced heart attacks. In addition, 30 fetuses developed mental disabilities after they were born. Such statistics have attracted little notice so far. The numbers cited in schoolbooks are much higher. According to Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia, 105,000 people died of the "long-term consequences of radiation." "For commendable reasons, many critics have greatly exaggerated the health risks of radioactivity," says Albrecht Kellerer, a Munich radiation biologist. "But contrary to widespread opinion, the number of victims is by no means in the tens of thousands." Especially surprising, though, is that the stories of birth defects in newborns are also pure fantasy. The press has repeatedly embellished photos of a destroyed Hiroshima with those of deformed children, children without eyes or with three arms. In reality, there hasn't been a single study that provides evidence of an elevated rate of birth defects. A final attempt to establish a connection is currently underway in Japan. The study includes 3,600 people who were unborn fetuses in their mothers' wombs on that horrific day in August 1945. But it too has failed to furnish any evidence of elevated chromosomal abnormality. In Germany, where nuclear fears have coalesced with the fear of dying forests and mad cow disease into a general psychosis of threat, the degree of concern over nuclear radiation remains high. To this day, some are so fearful about the long-term effects of fallout from Chernobyl that they refuse to eat mushrooms from Bavaria. Even 20 years ago such behavior would not have made sense.

===**Solar Flares Extensions**=== 

**No solar flares -- the Sun's beginning to hibernate**
**Andrew 7/25** (2011, "Are Solar Flares Easing Up?" http://www.offthegridnews.com/2011/07/25/are-solar-flares-easing-up/, RG)

Scientists at the U.S. National Solar Observatory have determined that the sunspot cycle is heading into a period of rest. Their reports are based on fading sunspots, a missing jet stream, and slower-than-usual activity near the sun’s poles. These findings were discovered late in the current sunspot cycle, and indicate that the next sunspot cycle (due to begin around 2019) would be a period of hibernation.
Hibernation periods mean that the sun will have a lessened effect on Earth and the other planets in our solar system. There will be little to no danger of sunspot activity or massive solar flares that could disrupt our technology. Researchers suggest that if the hibernation period is deep enough, it could potentially have a slight cooling effect on the Earth for some number of years.

**We'll shut down the power grids -- solves black-outs**
**Slavo 6/14** (Mac, 2011, "Solar Threat: We’ll Have Minutes to Respond; Government Plans Controlled Blackouts; Elite Contingency Plans," http://theintelhub.com/2011/06/14/solar-threat-we%E2%80%99ll-have-minutes-to-respond-government-plans-controlled-blackouts-elite-contingency-plans/, RG)

The Space Weather Prediction Center, which is an organization tasked with watching the sun and identifying potentially damaging solar events, plans on responding to solar flares headed towards our planet by shutting down key power grid systems. Satellites deployed throughout our solar system are constantly monitoring the sun.
When they detect a potentially damaging effect, the Prediction Center’s goal is to immediately activate emergency procedures and contact key personnel through the country who would be responsible for shutting down our grid.
A solar flare will give researchers and analysts about 2 – 3 days to respond – which seems to be plenty of time if a massive solar flare is detected. In recent months we’ve seen several X-class solar flares headed towards Earth.
If targeted directly at our planet, a high enough level X-class flare could take down elements of the grid, and in several historical instances flares have done just that. But with solar storms heating up, and the recent massive eruption detected last year, scientists are worried about even stronger “X+” flares, or Y-class events.
The Space prediction center should be able to detect all classes of these flares, and if executed properly, can protect the grid if one is determined to be heading towards Earth.

**NASA's solar shield solves**
**Heiser '10** (James, 11/8/10, "NASA's "Solar Shield" Will Warn of Solar Weather," http://thenewamerican.com/tech-mainmenu-30/space/5126-nasas-qsolar-shieldq-will-warn-of-solar-weather, RG)

NASA’s answer to the problem — a Solar Shield — is somewhat of a misnomer, in that it will not actually shield the Earth from all of the effects of a solar flare. Instead, it is a bit more like a weather radio alert of an approaching storm, except that instead of citizens unplugging televisions to protect them from lightning, Solar Shield will warn the power companies to “unplug” those portions of the grid most likely to be damaged, thus hopefully avoiding a catastrophic failure.
NASA satellites would identify and track CMEs, which can take as long as two days to reach Earth after a solar flare. Approximately 30 minutes before the storm reaches Earth, NASA would be able to provide specific information regarding which areas of the globe would feel the brunt of the impact; power companies could then cause a temporary, regional blackout, and restore service after the CME had passed.

**Preventitive measures solve blackouts**
**Chivers '10** -- Telegraph.co.uk's Strategic Events Editor (Tom, 2011, "Nasa's 2013 solar flare warning: how much do we need to worry?" http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/culture/tomchivers/100008500/nasas-2013-solar-flare-warning-how-much-do-we-need-to-worry/, RG)

Of course, if a proper “Carrington event” happens again, it has the potential to be far more problematic now than in 1859 when electric communication was barely in its infancy. Dr Clark says “There is absolutely no reason to believe that we are heading for solar armageddon in 2013, but sooner or later we should expect there to be another Carrington event and that is what these scientists [at NASA] are trying to prevent. Legislation in the US has just passed Congress to help harden the grid against solar flares.”
So – it’s a real thing, and we should be concerned. But preventive measures can be taken – satellites can be sent offline during big flares, power grids and communication networks can be shielded against electromagnetic radiation and so on. As Dr Bamford says: “The extreme events like the 1859 Carrington Event are 1-in-100-year probabilities, about the same probability as a storm of the level of Katrina hitting New Orleans – and New Orleans did not build their defences to withstand the extreme-but-unlikely magnitude. 100 years isn’t that long.
“But the end of the world it is not. Maybe as disruptive as an ash cloud, but not as protracted I’m sure.” She gives examples of precautions, like a GPS backup system called eLoran, or active mini-magnetosphere shielding for astronauts and satellites that her team have designed.

**No solar flares and no impact**
**Andrew 7/25** (2011, "Are Solar Flares Easing Up?" http://www.offthegridnews.com/2011/07/25/are-solar-flares-easing-up/, RG)

This dire warning has been discounted by many other scientists. They state that the reduction in sunspot activity is a clear indicator that the cycle is winding down, and that fears of a massive flare in 2013 are unwarranted. Although they argue that a massive flare is unlikely, they have provided some data on past flares to demonstrate that even a large flare would have minimal impact on the world.
After reviewing case studies on historical solar flare activity, this team of researchers advised that at worst, only small communications or electricity interruptions would occur if a massive flare erupted toward Earth. Although the interruptions may be minor, the team stated that the power grid should be outfitted with monitoring equipment to help address any potential disruptions caused by solar flare activity. The equipment, referred to as residual current devices (RCDs), act as trip switches on electricity transmission lines. RCDs break the connection when there’s a sudden increase in voltage. This would cause a temporary disruption in power, but the transformers would be protected from surges. The devices are used in domestic wiring systems and could be thought of as surge protectors for power lines.

===Hetero-normativity Frontline=== 
**-- The Affirmative presents an incomplete history of female space flight; there have been two female shuttle commanders and a female commander of the International Space Station**
**Moskowitz 11** (Clara, “Two women have commanded shuttle missions,” MSNBC, online http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/43658929/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/two-women-have-commanded-shuttle-missions/)

Though dozens of women have flown on the space shuttle during the course of its 30-year career, only two have commanded the spaceship. Those two are NASA astronauts Eileen Collins, who led the STS-93 flight of the shuttle Columbia in July 1999, and Pamela Melroy, who commanded the STS-120 mission of Discovery in November 2007. Because becoming a shuttle commander requires previous spaceflight experience, as well as at least 1,000 hours experience piloting a jet aircraft, fewer women have achieved this position than those that have flown as mission specialists. With NASA planning to retire the space shuttles after the final flight of Atlantis July 8, no further chances will arise for women to command the reusable space planes. However, both Collins and Melroy expressed the hope that more women could become commanders of future American spacecraft as NASA embarks on a new mission to explore asteroids, the moon and Mars. First female commander Collins was born in 1956 in Elmira, N.Y. She has master's degrees in operations research and space systems management, and is a retired colonel in the U.S. Air Force. She was selected as an astronaut candidate in January 1990. On her first spaceflight, the STS-63 mission of Discovery in February 1995, Collins became the first female space shuttle pilot, a second-in-command position behind the commander. After another flight, the May 1997 voyage of Atlantis, Collins became the first female space shuttle commander on the STS-93 mission of the shuttle Columbia. "I was just doing my job — a job I loved," Collins told Space.com. "I was very mission-oriented, I always focused on the safety of the mission, the accuracy, what is our mission statement, are we fulfilling that. I never really thought that much about, OK, I'm a woman and this is the first time a woman has flown as a pilot, the first time a woman has flown as commander." On the first flight she commanded, Collins and her crew launched the Chandra X-ray observatory, a space telescope that went on to make many significant astronomical discoveries by observing the cosmos in X-ray light. The observatory is still operating today. Collins followed up that flight by commanding the STS-114 mission of the Discovery in July 2005. That flight was the first shuttle mission after a two-year hiatus following the Columbia shuttle disaster in 2003. During that "Return to Flight" mission, Collins and her crew visited the International Space Station, testing out new safety procedures, including a backflip of the shuttle called the Rendezvous Pitch Maneuver. This move, conducted as the shuttle approaches the station to dock, allows astronauts on the outpost to snap hundreds of detailed images of the orbiter's underbelly to be analyzed for any signs of damage incurred during launch. NASA Astronaut Eileen M. Collins, STS-114 commander, waves while floating in the Zvezda Service Module of the International Space Station. Collins carried out the maneuver for the first time on that flight. It is now a routine part of every shuttle mission to the space station. "It was brilliant, creative idea," Collins said. "Some smart engineer came up with this idea, and it's really increased the safety of the shuttle. To have the ability to do this maneuver has really increased our confidence in the shuttle heat shield when we return home at the end of the mission." Breaking new ground Melroy was born in 1961 and hails from Rochester, N.Y. She has a master's degree in Earth and planetary science, and is also a retired colonel in the U.S. Air Force. Melroy was selected as an astronaut in December 1994 and flew on her first flight, the October 2000 STS-92 flight of Discovery, as the mission's pilot. She served again as the pilot on the STS-112 flight of Atlantis in October 2002. Melroy recounted an experience during her first flight, while looking down at a nighttime view of China. NASA Astronaut Pam Melroy, STS-120 commander, floats into the Unity node of the International Space Station while space shuttle Discovery is docked with the station. "I realized that somewhere down there in China, someone had looked something up on the Internet, stepped out their front door with their son or daughter and pointed out that little thing flying in the sky way above and said, 'Look, there's the space shuttle.' And waved. So I waved back," Melroy said. "Here was a place I had never been, and the thing that was connecting us was technology. I had a sense of profound connection with that person there that I would never meet." In October 2007, Melroy became the second female space shuttle commander, when she led the STS-120 mission of Discovery. On this flight, Melroy and her crew delivered the Harmony node to the fledgling International Space Station. It also happened that she rendezvoused with another female commander, NASA astronaut Peggy Whitson, who was commanding the International Space Station at the time. Melroy said this coincidence actually made a deeper impression on her than being the second female shuttle commander. Advertise | AdChoices "I think to me it was actually a bigger thing that Peggy Whitson and I were flying at the same time in space and that no one had planned it that way," Melroy said. She said the highlight of her spaceflights was sharing the experience with her fellow astronauts. "The connection you feel to the other people who are sharing this really strange environment with you, it's so different and you can't explain it and they become like your family forever," she said. End of an era Melroy and Collins both expressed sadness that the shuttle program was ending, and gratitude for having been lucky enough to fly on the vehicles. "Everybody keeps using the word 'bittersweet' and it really is true," Melroy said. "From a pilot's perspective, it's really an extraordinary spacecraft and aircraft. The capability to not just launch enormous payloads, but to bring things back is one I don’t think we are going to see again for a long time." After the last shuttle flies one more time, NASA's three remaining orbiters will be sent for retirement at museums in the hopes of allowing the public to connect with the vehicles by coming face-to-face with them in person.

**-- Turn – Focusing on undermining the heterosexist ideology reintrenches the binary structure of sex itself and the dominative heteronormative system**
Cindy **Patton**, Asst. Professor at Temple University, **1995** (Performativity and Performance, pg 179-180, ed. Andrew Parker and Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick)

We have, I now believe, pressed too hard on the homophobic core, or at least understood the constitution of a “self” through reverse-discourse in too unified a manner, a manner that insists too strongly on the bipolar structure of subject-constitution that is required within the self-other model. Surely these figural “Others” must operate quite differently in different regimes, sometimes simply in relation to a unifiable “Self” (whether individual or writ larger as class or nation), but in other cases as the multiply other “Other” in relation to many competing or autonomous sites of knowledge claims. The “homosexual” of AIDS discourse, while palpably still the central figure, is a different “other” from “heterosexual,” “hemophiliac,” or “woman,” not to mention from “doctor,” “nation,” or “African.” If it is relatively easy, through concepts like stigma, to correlate a range of marginalized in similarly antipodal positions to the idea of a codifying center (“self” writ large), this does not mean they are in the same place, subjected to the same discursive and institutional tyrannies. And it is extremely hazardous to assume that the range of “selfs” which multiple notions of “other” inflect are, in fact, constitutive of a single, dominating system. It becomes difficult to see that space and time and the fate of those without the capacity to make specific, protective claims on their institutions are all linked through the idea of movement, if only because the body impinged upon may wish to save itself through flight.

**-- Crewing an all female shuttle mission for the sole purpose of breaking gender barriers equates to nothing more than a publicity stunt – only reaffirms the patriarchal mindset**
**Shayler & Moule ’05** (David & Ian, Women in Space – Following Valentina, Springer, July 7, 2005)

At the time (1999), Seddon revealed that no studies of female hormone levels had been carried out, and that such data, combined with studies on deconditioning and degenerative issues associated with long-duration spaceflight, would be useful. In her report, presented to NASA in 2000, she stated, ‘If NASA really does want to do the science of female physiology on a reputable science mission, for all the right reasons and with all the right equipment, then I think that would be fine…I don’t think they should pull together a female crew for public relations reasons.’ During in an interview in 2004, Seddon was again questioned about the vailidity of flying and all-female crew. She agreed that although the purpose of John Glenn’s flight was to obtain good scientific data, the real reason was for inspiration; and though it was possible to fly and all-woman crew, it would be inappropriate to do so solely for the same reason: ‘You can’t sell it based on inspiration. You have to say, ‘well, we could get a lot of good data on women.” When Seddon talked with female members of the Astronaut Office, they told her that they did not want to be assigned to a flight to be considered guinea pigs, nor to be chosen simply because they were female. They wanted assignments based on their competence as astronauts, not as women astronauts. Seddon’s committee had to take this into consideration along with scientific, health-care issues and research issues on the mission. If there were to be little support for the Astronaut Office for such a high-profile mission, then it would be difficult to support the funding and organize the resources.

**-- Turn – Russia:**
**Russia thinks the plan is space mil**
**Mizin & Moltz ‘7** -- *Vice-President of the Moscow based Center for Strategic Assessments, member of the Center for Political and Military Prognosis of the Russian Academy of Science IMEMO Institute, and the board of the Russian NGO Committee on Critical Technologies and Nonproliferation AND **Associate Director and Research Professor at CNS, Monterey Inst of Int'l Studies, directs Newly Indepondent States Nonprolif Program (Victor and James, “Russian Officials not Separating U.S. Space Weapon Propaganda from Reality,” p. 93-4, RG)**

**Even though the U.S. is no longer officially viewed as a military archrival or, at least, a major strategic threat, Russia critics see U.S. space policy as an organic element of U.S. strategic efforts that have traditionally been alarming to Russia. Therefore, Russians are watching U.S. military space programs very carefully and sometimes overreact in their efforts to thwart any potentially hostile developments in the strategic domain. They sincerely believe the overly enthusiastic, space-superiority incantations that are floated by U.S. Air Force generals, not grasping the way the U.S. government functions or paying attention to the fact that funding for many of these bold plans is seldom being provided by Congress. For this reason, some Russian experts in both the nongovernmental and governmental communities fall for the rhetoric of professional U.S. space warmongers and industry lobbyists by overreacting to media-fanned stories on U.S. plans to launch “Rods from God” bombardment systems or other Hollywood-styled, space-based kill systems.**

This will go nuclear
Rozoff '9 **– Correspondent on Geopolitics and US Foreign Policy with the Centre for Research on Globalization (Rick, 6/19/09, "Militarization Of Space: Threat Of Nuclear War On Earth," http://dandelionsalad.wordpress.com/2009/06/18/militarization-of-space-threat-of-nuclear-war-on-earth-by-rick-rozoff/, RG)**

**On June 17, immediately after the historical ninth heads of state summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Yekaterinburg, Russia on the preceding two days, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and Chinese President Hu Jintao announced that their nations were drafting a joint treaty to ban the deployment of weapons in outer space to be presented to the United Nations General Assembly.**
**A statement by the presidents reflected a common purpose to avoid the militarization of space and said:**
**“Russia and China advocate peaceful uses of outer space and oppose the prospect of it being turned into a new area for deploying weapons.**
**“The sides will actively facilitate practical work on a draft treaty on the prevention of the deployment of weapons in outer space, and of the use of force or threats to use force against space facilities, and will continue an intensive coordination of efforts to guarantee the security of activities in outer space.” [1]**
**The statement also addressed the question of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and its global expansion as well as an integrally related danger, the US-led drive to development a worldwide – and more than worldwide – interceptor missile system aimed at neutralizing China’s and Russia’s deterrent and retaliation capacities in the event of a first strike attack on either or both.**
**The section of the joint communique addressing the above stated, “Russia and China regard international security as integral and comprehensive. The security of some states cannot be ensured at the expense of others, including the expansion of military-political alliances or the creation of global or regional missile defense systems.” [2]**
**The two leaders’ comments assumed greater gravity and legitimacy as Medvedev and Hu had both just attended the two-day SCO summit which included heads of states and other representatives of the SCO’s six full members [China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan), its four observer states (India, Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan, with the heads of state of all but Mongolia participating, the first time for an Indian prime minister), the president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, and attendees from Belarus and Sri Lanka, the latter also for the first time at an SCO summit.**
**The statement by the Russian and Chinese presidents also came the day after the first-ever heads of state summit of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China) nations in the same Russian city.**
**To confirm the seriousness and urgency of Hu's and Medvedev's concerns over the expansion of the arms race and potential armed conflict into space, on the same day as their statement was released Russian Deputy Defence Minister Vladimir Popovkin addressed a press conference in Moscow and issued comments that were summarized by the local media as "Russia warns that technology failure with weapons in space may accidentally invite a massive response amounting to nuclear war."**
**He warned that his nation's "response to American weapons in orbit would be asymmetric but adequate." [3]**

-- Survivial 1st – the Kritik violates autonomy
Schwartz 02 **– Professor of Medicine, Dartmouth (Lisa, Medical Ethics, http://www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf, AG)**

**This assertion suggests that the determination of the value of the quality of a given life is a subjective determination to be made by the person experiencing that life. The important addition here is that the decision is a personal one that, ideally, ought not to be made externally by another person but internally by the individual involved. Katherine Lewis made this decision for herself based on a comparison between two stages of her life. So did James Brady. Without this element, decisions based on quality of life criteria lack salient information and the patients concerned cannot give informed consent. Patients must be given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they think their lives are worth living or not. To ignore or overlook patients’ judgment in this matter is to violate their autonomy and their freedom to decide for themselves on the basis of relevant information about their future, and comparative consideration of their past. As the deontological position puts it so well, to do so is to violate the imperative that we must treat persons as rational and as ends in themselves.**

-- Focus on discourse destroys agency—we can never liberate ourselves from language
**David** McNally**, Teaches political science at York University in Toronto, His most recent book is Against the Market: Political Economy, Market Socialism and the Marxist Critique,** 1997
**[“Language, history, and class struggle,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n3_v47/ai_17228734]**


**Language is the immediate actuality of thought. just as philosophers have given thought an independent existence, so they were bound to make language into an independent realm. We are witnessing today a new idealism, infecting large sections of the intellectual left, which has turned language not merely into an independent realm, but into an all-pervasive force, so omnipresent, so dominant, as virtually to extinguish human agency. Everything is discourse, you see; and discourse is everything. Because human beings are linguistic creatures, because the world in which we act is a world we know and describe through language, it allegedly follows that there is nothing outside language. Our language, or discourse," or "text" - the jargon varies but not the message - defines and limits what we know, what we can imagine, what we can do. There is a political theory here too. Oppression is said to be rooted ultimately in the way in which we and others are defined linguistically, the way in which we are positioned by words in relation to other words. Our very being, our identities and "subjectivities," are constituted through discourse. As one trendy literary theorist puts it in David Lodge's novel Nice Work, it is not merely that you are what you speak; no, according to the new idealism, "you are what speaks you." Language is thus the final "prison-house." Our confinement there is beyond resistance; it is impossible to escape from that which makes us what we are. This new idealism corresponds to a profound collapse of political horizons. It is the pseudo-radicalism of a period of retreat for the left, a verbal radicalism of the word without deed, or, rather, of the word as deed. In response to actual structures and practices of oppression and exploitation, it offers the rhetorical gesture, the ironic turn of phrase. It comes as little surprise, then, when one of the chief philosophers of the new idealism, Jacques Derrida, tells us that he would hesitate to use such terms as 'liberation'."(1) Imprisoned within language, we may play with words; but we can never hope to liberate ourselves from immutable structures of oppression rooted in language itself. Such views are an abdication of political responsibility, especially at a time of instability in the world capitalist economy, of widening gaps between rich and poor, of ruling-class offensives against social programs. The new idealism and the politics it entails are not simply harmless curiosities; they also represent an obstacle to the rebuilding of mass movements of protest and resistance.**

-- Changing the heterosexist nature of the law is impossible in our conventionally based society – popular heterosexist stereotypes
**Morrison,** Adele**. Assistant Professor of Law, Northern Illinois University College of Law .** 2003**. QUEERING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE TO "STRAIGHTEN OUT" CRIMINAL LAW: WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN WHEN QUEER THEORY AND PRACTICE MEET CRIMINAL LAW'S CONVENTIONAL RESPONSES TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE. LexisNexis p.153-54**

**The truth is that this is a straight society. It is dominated by the conventional. It is also true that this conventionality has existed in one form or another for millennia. It is, for many, a difficult process to see sex and gender as different from each other, as unbundled from sexual orientation and separate from morality and religion. For some people, it is impossible to separate morality, religion and sexuality from law. The law is connected to other systems: It both permeates society and is influenced by its conventions. Thus, changing the conventionality of the law may not be possible. The law, like the society in which it exists, is essentially gendered: For the most part, what I describe as a sex-and gender-conformity exists. The most obviously non-conforming are transgendered persons. n314 Though there are an increasing number of gender nonconformists and a wider diversity of transgender people, most of whom are "queer," the reality is that the majority of people present/perform n315 the gender that society has assigned to their sex. Males are readily perceived as men and females as women. This means that if you or I were to try to guess the sex on someone's birth certificate by looking at or listening to her or him, much of the time we would be right. Another reality is that the majority of domestic violence is perpetrated by heterosexually identified males, who also identify as men, against heterosexually identified females, who know themselves and identify as women. According to an American Psychological Association 1996 report, "nearly one in three adult women experiences at least one physical assault by a partner during adulthood." n316 In addition, according to a Bureau of Justice Statistics' 1994 report, 90-95% of domestic violence victims (in [*154] heterosexual relationships) are women. n317 Domestic violence is overwhelmingly a crime perpetrated by males against females. My argument is in no way intended to diminish this fact.**

-- Politicizing Narratives and Standpoints is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment but inherently ends up utilizing narratives to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.
**Linda Martín** Alcoff**, Department of Philosophy at Syracuse University.** 1992**, Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32

Feminist discourse is not the only site in which the problem of speaking for others has been acknowledged and addressed. In anthropology there is similar discussion about whether it is possible to speak for others either adequately or justifiably. Trinh T. Minh-ha explains the grounds for skepticism when she says that anthropology is "mainly a conversation of `us' with `us' about `them,' of the white man with the white man about the primitive-nature man...in which `them' is silenced. `Them' always stands on the other side of the hill, naked and speechless...`them' is only admitted among `us', the discussing subjects, when accompanied or introduced by an `us'..."4 Given this analysis, even ethnographies written by progressive anthropologists are a priori regressive because of the structural features of anthropological discursive practice. The recognition that there is a problem in speaking for others has followed from the widespread acceptance of two claims. First, there has been a growing awareness that where one speaks from affects both the meaning and truth of what one says, and thus that one cannot assume an ability to transcend her location. In other words, a speaker's location (which I take here to refer to her social location or social identity) has an epistemically significant impact on that speaker's claims, and can serve either to authorize or dis-authorize one's speech. The creation of Women's Studies and African American Studies departments were founded on this very belief: that both the study of and the advocacy for the oppressed must come to be done principally by the oppressed themselves, and that we must finally acknowledge that systematic divergences in social location between speakers and those spoken for will have a significant effect on the content of what is said. The unspoken premise here is simply that a speaker's location is epistemically salient. I shall explore this issue further in the next section. The second claim holds that not only is location epistemically salient, but certain privileged locations are discursively dangerous.5 In particular, the practice of privileged persons speaking for or on behalf of less privileged persons has actually resulted (in many cases) in increasing or reenforcing the oppression of the group spoken for. This was part of the argument made against Anne Cameron's speaking for Native women: Cameron's intentions were never in question, but the effects of her writing were argued to be harmful to the needs of Native authors because it is Cameron rather than they who will be listened to and whose books will be bought by readers interested in Native women. Persons from dominant groups who speak for others are often treated as authenticating presences that confer legitimacy and credibility on the demands of subjugated speakers; such speaking for others does nothing to disrupt the discursive hierarchies that operate in public spaces. For this reason, the work of privileged authors who speak on behalf of the oppressed is becoming increasingly criticized by members of those oppressed groups themselves.6 As social theorists, we are authorized by virtue of our academic positions to develop theories that express and encompass the ideas, needs, and goals of others. However, we must begin to ask ourselves whether this is ever a legitimate authority, and if so, what are the criteria for legitimacy? In particular, is it ever valid to speak for others who are unlike me or who are less privileged than me? We might try to delimit this problem as only arising when a more privileged person speaks for a less privileged one. In this case, we might say that I should only speak for groups of which I am a member. But this does not tell us how groups themselves should be delimited. For example, can a white woman speak for all women simply by virtue of being a woman? If not, how narrowly should we draw the categories? The complexity and multiplicity of group identifications could result in "communities" composed of single individuals. Moreover, the concept of groups assumes specious notions about clear-cut boundaries and "pure" identities. I am a Panamanian-American and a person of mixed ethnicity and race: half white/Angla and half Panamanian mestiza. The criterion of group identity leaves many unanswered questions for a person such as myself, since I have membership in many conflicting groups but my membership in all of them is problematic.


==1NC/2NR's== 
===Wake Forest=== 

Rd. 1 vs. Broad Run YP (Constellation)
SKFTA
ASPEC
Prizes CP
Security K
Spending Disad (2NR)

Rd. 3 vs. Hooch KL (Nano-Sattelites)
SKFTA (2NR)
T - Humans
ASPEC
Prizes CP (2NR)
Security K

Rd 5 vs. River Hill GC (DSCOVR)
SKFTA
T - Humans
ASPEC
Offsets (2NR)
Security K

Doubles vs. Cathedral Prep HB (Webb Telescope)
SKFTA
T - Humans (2NR)
ASPEC
Prizes CP
Spending Disad

Octas vs. JCHS KT (Female Space Crew - Heteronormativity)
SKFTA
ASPEC
Spending Disad
Cap K
Hilary Clinton CP (2NR)
Space Mil Turn on case (2NR)

Quarters vs. National Cathedral SS (DSCOVR)
SKFTA
ASPEC
Security K (2NR)
T - Humans
Prizes CP

Semis vs. Gulliver Prep (DSCOVR)
SKFTA (2NR)
ASPEC
Security K
T - Humans
Prizes CP

===St. Mark's=== 

Rd. 2 vs, Hendrickson SB (SPS)
Prizes CP (2NR)
T - Humans
China Currency
ASPEC
Security

Rd. 4 vs. New Trier BN (SBMD)
Irregular Warfare DA
T - Humans (2NR)
Space Race DA
Code of Conduct CP
Security
ASPEC

Rd. 6 vs. HoFlo GS (SPS)
T - Humans
Security
EIS CP (2NR)
SKFTA
Oil and Space Debris on case

===Glenbrooks=== 

Rd. 2 vs. Charimane ?? (Random Bee-monitoring Satellite)
Prizes CP (2NR)
T - Humans
Payroll Tax Cuts (2NR)
ASPEC
Security

Rd. 3 vs. Barstow WM (Property Rights)
T - Everything
UN CP
Heidegger (2NR)
Payroll Tax Cuts

Rd. 6 vs. Berkeley Prep XG (EASE)
T - Humans
EIS CP (2NR)
Security
Payroll Tax Cuts
Space Debris (2NR) and Nuclear Primacy Bad on case

Rd. 7 vs. Gulliver Prep MZ (Space Debris)
T - Humans
Prizes CP (2NR)
Payroll Tax Cuts (2NR)
Heidegger

Doubles vs. Juan Diego IR (SPS)
T - Humans
ASPEC
Prizes CP
EIS CP (2NR)
Payroll Tax Cuts
Space Mil

===Ohio Valley=== 

Rd. 1 vs. Marist MT (Space Guard)
T - Everything
ASPEC
Payroll Tax Cuts (2NR)
Reg Neg CP (2NR)
Security

Rd. 4 vs. Thomas Johnson HG (EOS Race aff)
Cap K (2NR)
Payroll Tax Cuts
EIS CP
Framework

Rd. 5 vs. Mountain Brook GR (SPS)
T - Human
ASPEC
Payroll Tax Cuts
Prizes CP
Heidegger (2NR)
Space Debris and Space Mil on case

Doubles vs. Perry LM (Geriatric Studies on Women)
Cap K
EIS CP
Payroll Tax Cuts (2NR)
ASPEC
T of some sort
Warming Good on case (2NR)

===MBA=== 

Rd. 1 vs. Hooch CK (Nanosatellites)
ASPEC
T - Humans
Payroll Tax Cuts
PGS/NMD Disad
Security (2NR)
EIS CP
Heg Bad on case

Rd. 4 vs. GBS HJ (EOS)
ASPEC
T - Humans
Payroll Tax Cuts (2NR)
Security
Satellite Efficiency CP

Rd. 5 vs. Cedar Washington DK (Asteroids)
ASPEC (2NR)
Asteroids K (2NR)
Prizes CP
T - Human
Payroll Tax Cuts

===Emory=== 

Rd. 2 vs. Berkely Prep DD (Military Payloads)
ASPEC
Security (2NR)
PTC
EIS CP
T - Everything (2NR)

Rd. 4 vs. Colleyville CH (Nuclear Propulsion)
ASPEC
T - Human (2NR)
PTC (2NR)
EIS CP
Security

Rd. 5 vs. Edina SS (Asteroids)
Reg Neg CP
T - Human
PTC (2NR)
Refuges CP
Asteroids K

Doubles vs. Beacon BB (Junior Brown)
Framework
Cap K (2NR)
Anthro K

Octas vs. Westminster XH (ExoMars)
EIS CP
PTC (2NR)
Security
ASPEC
T - Human

Quarters vs. Greenhill SU (Space Guard)
PTC (2NR)
T - Human
EIS CP
Security

===Harvard=== 

Rd 1 vs. Bronx AK (ORS)
EIS CP (2NR)
T - Human
ASPEC (2NR)
Security
Bomber Tradeoff DA

Rd 4 vs. Carrolton DS (SPS)
Prizes CP
Cybersecurity (2NR)
Security
T - Human
ASPEC
Russia Oil and Heg Bad on case

Rd 6 vs. BCC MN (Commons)
T - Development
ASPEC
Anthro K
Cybersecurity (2NR)
EIS CP
Free Trade good on case

Rd 7 vs. Lexington CF (Property Rights)
UN CP
T - Development (2NR)
Security
Cybersecurity
Dedev on case