<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Colin Basco|Westminster BH Home Page]]</span>
<span style="color: black;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Dillon Hall & Colin Basco - Negative|Westminster BH Negative Page]]</span>
=**Note**= 
**We only update this when asked for cites on what we read in a specific round.**
[[toc]]
=**Gender Aff**= 

==**1NC Frontline**== 

**1. NASA isn’t sexist – Male astronauts were used for physiological reasons**
**Shackelford et al 01** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Linda C. Shackelford, Deborah L. Harm, Richard T. Jennings, Janice V. Meck, Michael R. Powell, Lakshmi Putcha, Clarence P. Sams, Suzanne M. Schneider, Scott M. Smith and Peggy A. Whitson, Shackelford went to the University of Mississippi</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">School of Medicine, working with these other professors in various fields of medicine and medicine in space “Gender issues related to spaceflight: a NASA perspective”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THIS </span>__MINIREVIEW PROVIDES a summary of … compared with 27% for the men (27).__

**2. <span class="Underline">Feminist epistemology contradicts itself – creates a bias paradox</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Rolin 06**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kristina is an Academy of Finland Research Fellow at Helsinki School of Economics. Her main areas of research are philosophy of science and epistemology, with emphasis on social epistemology and feminist epistemology. She has published articles in //Philosophy of Science//, //Social Epistemology//, //Perspectives on Science//, and //Hypatia//. “The Bias Paradox in Feminist Standpoint Epistemology” //Episteme: A Journal of Social Epistemology// 3.1 (2006) [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/episteme/v003/3.1rolin.html]]) AK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sandra Harding's </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">feminist standpoint epistemology … losing its critical edge</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Antony 1993, 189).</span>

<span class="Underline">**3. Role reversal — by pitting our mindset as the epitome of masculine dominance, they link to their criticism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Whitworth****94 –** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science and female studies @ York U (Feminism and International Relations, pg 20)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even when not concerned with … pause to reconsider this position.</span>

**4. No impact—rigid masculine privilege doesn’t exist—masculinity empirically doesn’t guarantee a better life**
**Jones 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph d in poly sci and professor of international studies at the Center for Research and Teaching in Economics (CIDE) in Mexico City, 1996</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Adam, //Does “Gender” Make the World Go Round? Feminist Critiques of International Relations//, Review of International Studies 22:4, [[http://adamjones.freeservers.com/does.htm]], 7/12/07, Stevens]</span>

__The self-imposed limitations on …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">able or willing to provide.</span>


**5. Critiques of gender relations that do not pose concrete alternatives are destined to fail.**
**Caprioli 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Feminist IR Theory and Quantitative Methodology: A Critical Analysis” Mary Caprioli, Dept. of Political Science, University of Tennessee. International Studies Review. Volume 42 Issue 1 Page 193-197, March 2004. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/links/doi/10.1111/0020-8833.00076</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>

If researchers cannot add gender … what happens in the world.

**6. Feminist thought just reproduces gender stereotypes**
**Witworth****94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof of political science and female studies @ York U, (Feminism and International Relations, pg 20, 1994)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even when not concerned with … pause to reconsider this position.</span>