==Prizes CP== 
State prizes spur new technology – solves exploration. 
Edward Aldridge Jr. et al 03, Under Secretary for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, at the Department of Defense, June 2004, “A Journey to Inspire, Innovate, and Discover,” Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf 
The U.S. government need not shoulder the entire ... afford, will indeed get us to the Moon, Mars, and beyond.

==Climate Detection CP== 

The United States federal government should support the cultivation and distribution of natural history collections modeled on the Darwin Initiative. 

Natural History Collections are the most effective method of improving modeling and climate change data James et al, Postdoctoral researcher at the Natural History Museum in London, 2011[ February, Karen E. James, Adrian M. Lister, Ellinor Michel, Mark Spencer, Jonathan A. Todd, Eugenia Valsami-Jones, Jeremy R. Young, John R. Stewart, Climate Change and Biosphere Response: Unlocking the Collections Vault ]
Over the past few decades, ecologists ... that is invaluable when resources are limited and the need for results is urgent.

==Sodium Bicarbonate CP== 

Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should provide financial incentives and subsidies to all fossil fuel plants in the United States to use Skyonic Skymine carbon capture technology to convert carbon dioxide emissions into sodium bicarbonate for commercial sale. The federal government should make this eligible for all emission reduction and carbon tax policies. 

That solves 90% of warming emissions
Kanellos 7 [Michael, CNET, News Staff Writer, “Can baking soda curb global warming?,” 11/27/2007, http://news.cnet.com/Can-baking-soda-curb-global-warming/2100-13838_3-6220127.html] 
Some scientists have proposed compressing carbon ... Creating sodium bicarbonate would probably be the best solution.