[[toc]]
For cites:
Before the tournament - [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?extsrc=mailto&url=mailto%3Athomas.hodgman@gmail.com|thomas.hodgman@gmail.com]]
During the tournament - [[@https://mail.google.com/mail/?extsrc=mailto&url=mailto%3Abbolman@gmail.com|bbolman@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its military and police presence from Iraq. 

Contention 1: Iraq 

The August withdrawal did not end Iraqi dependence. America wages combat operations under the banner of stability, furthering the destruction of Iraq 
Milne, 2010 (Seumas, August 4, Guardian columnist and associate editor, studied economics and politics at Oxford and London universities, “The US isn't leaving Iraq, it's rebranding the occupation,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/aug/04/us-iraq-rebranding-occupation]]</span>, TH) 
For most people … only just begun.  

To justify occupation we claim to be liberators and more qualified than the Iraqi people to rule Iraq. This hierarchy of inequality makes true political action by the Iraqi people impossible.  
Sanadjian, 2004 (Manuchehr, University of Manchester, “Fetishised liberty, the fear of the other and the global juridical rule in Iraq,” Social Identities, 10: 5, p. 672-676, TH) 
The American and … and receivers (Mauss, 1970). 

Iraq’s inequality was legalized in the international sphere by banishing the state from international protection – this reduced the entire population to an animal existence whose killing was justified  
Ali ’11 (Perveen, PhD Candidate in Law Department @ London School of Economics and Political Science, “‘I am Iraq’  Law, life and violence in the formation of the Iraqi state,” Utrecht Law Review, Vol. 7.2, April, pp. 18-21) 
The normative discourses … normal and legitimate. 

This violent conquest descended into necropolitical genocide as politics itself became violence, closing the space of dissent and leading to violent rejection of American rule by excluded sectarian groups 
Ali ’11 (Perveen, PhD Candidate in Law Department @ London School of Economics and Political Science, “‘I am Iraq’  Law, life and violence in the formation of the Iraqi state,” Utrecht Law Review, Vol. 7.2, April, pp. 22-27) 
3.3. The body … always been waged. 

This international consensus establishes absolute Evil as the enemy and legitimize any action against Evil. Any attack against America becomes an attack against Good itself requiring that all enemies MUST be eliminated.  
Ranciere 2 (Jacques, April 30, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, Counterpunch, “Prisoners of the Infinite,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.counterpunch.org/ranciere0430.html]]</span>, TH) 
From that point … war unto death. 

Maintaining this community requires constant pre-emption of threats before they materialize. Pre-emption divides the world into threat and non-threat, legitimizing the destruction of the periphery and reducing people to homo sacer. 
Goh 6 (Irving, Visiting Fellow @ Harvard U., where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. Research Fellow @ National U. of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html]]</span>) 
To allow the … must this persistence.  

These threatening depictions of the inevitable future create blind faith in political leaders. Faith-based politics apply preemption to civil society, sectioning off and containing potential dissent. 
Elmer and Opel 8 (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University, and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an Inevitable Future, p. 9-16) 
In 2003, the … way to action.  

Infusing equality into the decision-making process is key to combat global destruction 
Stannard 2006 (Matt, Department of Communication and Journalism, University of Wyoming, Spring 2006 Faculty Senate Speaker Series Speech, April 18, http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html) 
The complexity and … resist this colonization. 

Contention 2: Ethics 

We must rethink ethics as revealing how elites contradict their stated principles. In a nominally democratic society, this must center on the presupposition of equality  
May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.104-112, TH) 
Philosophically, we must … position: external critique.  

Equality is not hypothetical but an axiom which all social orders and hierarchy must recognize 
Ranciere ‘6 (Jacques, Professor of Aesthetics at the University of Paris VIII, “Hatred of democracy,” p. 46, TH)  
This is … it is based. 

Equality is not a goal to be achieved but an unconditional axiom from which politics must begin 
Barbour ‘10 (Charles, Department of Sociology @ U. of Alberta, “Militants of Truth, Communities of Equality: Badiou and the ignorant schoolmaster,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 42, No. 2, TH) 
While his work … is axiomatically denied. 

Placing equality at the beginning of our decision calculus is key to combat global violence  
Badiou ‘1 (Alain, Prof. of Philosophy @ EGS, On Evil: An Interview With Alain Badiou, http://www.cabinetmagazine.org/issues/5/alainbadiou.php) 
Take the nearest example: the terrible criminal attack in New York in September, with its thousands of casualties. If you reason in terms of … and sexual barbarism. 

The aff is an act of solidarity – what’s critical about equality is not an individual’s position but the recognition that we are all Iraqis and all potentially threats. Only this declassification is capable of disrupting the police order.  
May 8 (Todd, Prof. of Philosophy @ Clemson U., “The Political Thought of Jacques Rancière,” p.55-56, TH) 
If strikes can … particular oppression itself. 

The 1AC is an enunciation from the gap between subject positions – debater, iraqi, and the state – politics is only possible in the intersection between identities  
Chambers ‘5 (Samuel, teaches political theory at the University of Wales Swansea, “The politics of Literarity,” Theory & Event 8:3, TH) 
The differences among … settled from the start. 


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]