[[toc]]
[[mailto:matttwins2157@gmail.com|matttwins2157@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Plan</span>= 

Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the space situational awareness program.
=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Advantage 1 is Debris</span>= 

First an effective SSA system needs 8-10 satellites costing roughly 250 million each to achieve 100% coverage in geosynchronous orbit
Timothy L. Deaver September 2009 Director of Air Force Programs, AMERICOM Government Services COMM OPS: Leveraging COMSATS To Support Space Situational Awarenesshttp://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1867675618
Within the space industry, there is a growing concern over how safe operations are in space. The Iridium incident this past February illustrates the fact that satellites are at risk of an accidental collision. Even though very little can be done about the number of objects already in space, the risks of future collisions can be reduced by a more precise and timely cataloging of these objects. Improving Space Situational Awareness (SSA) is an increasing priority across the space community. Owners and operators are investing in mechanisms to share their spacecraft positional data with each other while countries around the world are increasing their capabilities to find and track the objects in space.<span style="color: black;"> Of particular interest to the geosynchronous orbit (GEO) satellite communication (SATCOM) operators, is the ability to detect and track objects at or near GEO. Within the past month alone, there have been several occasions where two satellites have come within 3 km of each other as predicted by USSTRATCOM’s </span>//Joint Space Operations Center//. The 3 km separation may seem like plenty of distance until one realizes that, in many cases, the accuracy of the measurements exceeds this distance. Today, when the SATCOM operator is notified of these close approaches, there is very little they can do to help this situation — operators watch nervously for any indication of a malfunction on their spacecraft that would indicate a collision. Everyone agrees we must improve our ability to find and track these objects. This article discusses how sensors could be “hosted” on the GEO commercial satellites themselves to improve the location accuracy of objects in or near GEO. There is no disagreement that SSA sensors at GEO would help to address this problem. The only remaining questions encompass how accurate and sensitive do the sensors need to be to truly contribute to the SSA mission. The answers to these questions are guided simply by how much one wants to spend on the sensors. The sensitivity of the sensor determines the size of the object the sensor can detect and how far away the object can be from the sensor. Generally, the more accurate and/or sensitive a sensor is, the more complex the design. Size, mass, power consumption and most importantly the cost of the sensor are directly related to its complexity. Therefore a balance must be found between the desired capability of the sensor and the contribution of the sensor to the SSA mission. According to a MIT Lincoln Lab study, a mid-sized sensor in the 100 Kg range would provide an ability to detect and track microsatellite sized objects at distances great enough to provide meaningful and useful data to meet the established requirements of the SSA community.[1] The MIT study goes on to show that with SSA sensors hosted on as few as eight to 10 spacecraft, you could monitor nearly 100 percent of the GEO belt on a continuous basis. A sensor any larger than this “mid-sized” sensor may be able to provide additional capabilities, but the cost curve quickly increases and the hosted payload concept quickly loses its appeal. An SSA sensor would need to be able to see objects in the GEO belt within its// field-of-view //(FOV). Therefore, the sensor would have to be mounted in an area where it could have a clear FOV of the GEO belt and not interfere with the commercial mission of the host spacecraft. This would generally result in the sensor being placed on a boom tower away from the spacecraft and behind communication antennas pointed towards the earth. Other sensor design constraints include sun-inclusion, thruster plume and jitter effects from the host spacecraft. Commercial communication satellites do not require a great deal of timing or pointing accuracy when compared to satellites that normally host highly accurate sensors. In general, for a commercial SATCOM mission, if the spacecraft time is accurate within a few seconds, it is usually accurate enough. Timing accuracy for SSA sensor data will require a much more accurate timing source. This timing source will either have to be incorporated into the sensor or it would have to be an added requirement for the host spacecraft. Similarly, commercial satellites do not have very “tight” requirements for stability or pointing accuracy. The pointing accuracy requirement for a typical communication satellite is driven by the need to maintain antenna patterns on the surface of the earth. If the pointing of the spacecraft is maintained within 0.1 degrees, the spacecraft normally meets the operators’ requirements. This accuracy is easily maintained with Earth sensors and a standard attitude control system. Another by-product of the pointing accuracy required for commercial communication satellite is a higher tolerance of jitter as compared to normal high-accuracy sensor host satellites. The MIT Lincoln Lab study discusses how a proper sensor design can meet SSA performance requirements without increasing the pointing and jitter control requirements of a standard commercial COMSAT.[1] Designing a sensor that can perform with the standard requirements once again keeps the cost lower. There is room for a trade study in this area as most satellite manufacturers offer upgraded Attitude Control Systems which greatly improve the pointing accuracy and stability of the spacecraft. These upgrades are available today with known costs. All the factors mentioned above directly impact the cost and flexibility of hosting such a sensor on a geosynchronous communication satellite. By selecting a relatively light weight, low power consumption sensor which requires a small amount of bandwidth to transmit its data, the cost of hosting the sensor is kept to a minimum. Now that we have addressed the type of sensor desired for a hosted SSA mission, let’s examine planning timelines. The typical commercial satellite planning and construction program starts about 36 to 48 months before a satellite is available on orbit for commercial service. As depicted in// Figure 1 //below, the planning phase is 12 to 18 months in length and then this is followed by a construction and launch phase lasting approximately 24 to 30 months. The optimal time to begin planning hosting sensors on a commercial satellite bus is during the early planning phase. During this time period the commercial operator is analyzing potential sources of income which will come from operating the spacecraft over its average 15 years of life. This potential income is then compared to the associated costs for acquiring, launching, and operating the spacecraft. Based on this information, the project’s anticipated financial performance, usually using a metric such as its// Internal Rate of Return //(IRR) is calculated. If the projected IRR is not greater than the company’s minimum rate of return (typically arrived at by calculating what could be earned by alternate uses of company capital, such as investing in other projects, buying bonds, etc.) then the project is either modified to increase the IRR or, if that cannot be done, scrapped completely. A typical commercial communication satellite can cost from $250M to $350M including spacecraft, launch, insurance, and on-orbit operations. The commercial models insure that over the 15 year operational lifetime of the spacecraft that the IRR will meet the investors’ expectations. The optimum planning window for considering hosting payloads is during the Industry / USG Opportunity Analysis period as shown in// Figure 1//. This time period is the most flexible period in the planning window. Any earlier than this and the plans for a specific spacecraft are too fluid and contain too much uncertainty to be able to establish any design criteria and orbit location. Any later than this, you end up with whatever is available from the host spacecraft and flexibility in design changes is highly constrained. Discussions with leading sensor builders indicate that their developmental cycle is on the order of 24 months from sensor design through subsystem test and calibration. The design and integration process for a typical satellite construction and launch is illustrated in// Figure 2//, above. The sensor design, build and test can overlap with the spacecraft subsystem design and build, if the sensor design is mature and all interface requirements are known and well documented. These interfaces would include mass, size (to include all control and communications electronics), power, thermal and mounting constraints. If this information is known and incorporated into the design of the host spacecraft, the sensor could actually arrive at the spacecraft manufacture shortly after spacecraft integration begins. Therefore the sensor must be completed approximately 12 to 16 months before the scheduled launch of the host spacecraft. Given these scheduling constraints, the selected SSA sensor would have to be under construction months before its host spacecraft. This type of architecture is achievable if the US Government develops a sensor specification and establishes a sensor procurement pipeline. The sensors would then be provided to the satellite bus manufacturer for integration into the bus at the appropriate time. Commercial satellites are routinely replaced based on age, lack of available station keeping fuel or to allow a service provider to upgrade its capabilities. Each commercial SATCOM operator maintains a plan of replacing spacecraft. The typical communication satellite is designed to last approximately 15 years. The two largest commercial SATCOM operators in the world, SES andIntelsat, operate about 100 such spacecraft. With 100 satellites combined, each lasting approximately 15 years, it takes six to eight replacement satellites per year to maintain their fleets. Even with this many potential hosting opportunities per year, not every one of these launches is an ideal candidate for hosting an SSA sensor. As discussed earlier, 10 sensors equally spaced around the GEO belt would provide nearly 100 percent coverage of the GEO belt down to the microsat size of object.[1] Using mathematical formulas only understood by rocket scientists, it can be calculated that you would want to host a set of SSA sensors on a GEO spacecraft approximately every 36 degrees (360 ÷ 10). Commercial spacecraft are not evenly spread out around the GEO belt, they tend to be concentrated in higher numbers in areas with high demand and more sparsely spaced in areas of lower demand. Therefore it is possible that two, three or even four consecutive spacecraft would be going to roughly the same area in the GEO belt and only one or two of them would be adequate candidates for hosting an SSA sensor. Spacecraft that are going to be launched in 2011 or earlier are more than likely already designed and under construction. Based on the optimal planning timeline presented above, hosted SSA plans should begin with satellites that will be launched in 2012 or later. One potential replenishment plan from 2011 to 2015 is presented in// Figure 3// above. This plan shows that you could select 8 – 10 spacecraft in a four year period which would come close to placing a hosted SSA sensor at or near the desired 36 degree spacing. In order to continue our ability to safely operate in space, increasing our ability to track objects in space more accurately and timely is an absolute necessity. This increased need is driven by the increased number of satellites operated in space, the increase in debris and technology advances that are producing smaller and smaller satellites. An SSA program aimed at dramatically increasing the detect and track capabilities at GEO could achieve full operational capability within six years by leveraging the hosted payload concept. The key to accomplishing this task is to select and define an appropriate sensor in 2010 at the same time begin working with the commercial communication satellite providers to identify optimal hosting opportunities. Based on this approach, it is highly conceivable that a complete geosynchronous “neighborhood” watch program could be completed within 48 months of initiation.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Although some technical capabilities exist a fully operational SSA system would help solve most major debris problems—budgetary constraints prevent solvency in the status quo</span>
Sadeh ’11 [Eligar, American political scientist and academic Assistant Professor, Department of Space Studies University of North Dakota, Ch. 13 Space Power and the Environment, Toward a Theory of Spacepower, June 13, 2011, [[http://www.opensourcesinfo.org/journal/2011/6/13/toward-a-theory-of-spacepower-selected-essays.html]], MStef]
The millions of debris particles smaller than 1 mm are beyond detection capabilities from satellite or ground-based radar observing systems. Despite the fact that technical capabilities exist to systematically track debris at about 50 mm in size, the U.S. Air Force Space Command nominally tracks and catalogues debris of about 100 mm or greater in size.30 This discrepancy between what is possible and what is accomplished is one of the key political issues facing SSA and the need for additional budgetary allocations to upgrade capabilities. Space Command's SSA mission also aims at information transparency and "deconfliction."31 To these ends, Space Command shares debris data with space users worldwide in the civil, commercial, and military sectors and provides space users with modeling and predictions for debris avoidance. Information transparency is a tool to deconflict any potential national security issues or threats that the debris issue may posit. Deconfliction implies diplomatic and cooperative paths to address problems.

And STRATCOM is working towards solving space debris problems now but lack funding—the plan solves these problems

Omaha World Herald 7/17, 2011 StratCom battles space crunch By Matthew Hansen WORLD-HERALD STAFF WRITER http://www.omaha.com/article/20110717/NEWS01/707179907

Lately, these StratCom space debris experts must feel like they are dodging very large bullets. A chunk of an old Soviet satellite appeared to be careering toward the International Space Station — and Atlantis, the American space shuttle currently docked there — before military and NASA officials determined last week that the space junk would fly past harmlessly. That close call comes on the heels of a much scarier situation in June, when a largely undetected piece of space rock speeding at a rate of 29,000 mph passed within about three football fields of the space station. It forced the station's six-man crew to climb into escape capsules and prepare for an emergency evacuation. The goal of StratCom's Joint Space Operations Center is to prevent these close calls, detecting potential space collisions days in advance and notifying NASA or a satellite owner to steer clear. But the reality, StratCom officials say, is that space has grown more cluttered and dangerous, especially since the military's current technology can detect less than 10 percent of the objects adrift in space. "We're trying to work this as a global community, because this affects everybody," said Maj. Duane Bird, a space situational awareness officer stationed at Offutt Air Force Base's StratCom headquarters. "The long-term impact of us not being able to use the space environment is huge," Bird said. "We need to take some action so we can continue to use the space environment for generations. So that's what we're doing." About 80 people, including 60 members of the U.S. military, spend their time working in an area the military calls "space situational awareness." The group's web of space sensors tracks all the space debris it can and sends that raw data to a computer system housed at Vandenberg Air Force Base in Southern California. The computers run a variety of tests, trying to determine whether two objects in space are on a collision course. If they are, the space situational awareness team overseen by StratCom sends a warning message to NASA, an American satellite provider or even a foreign government alerting them that their space shuttle or satellite is endangered. The group sends out 20 to 30 such warnings every day, Bird said. Those warnings cause a government or company to maneuver a satellite, avoiding a possible collision, once every other day, according to Micah Zenko, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. The amount of debris polluting space has nearly doubled in the past five years, thanks to two significant events, say military officials and defense experts: » In 2007 the Chinese government shot down one of its old satellites with a missile, splintering thousands of pieces of satellite debris into orbit. » In 2009 a defunct Soviet satellite collided with a communications satellite — the worst-ever collision of its kind — prompting the U.S. military to better track space debris and notify governments and companies of other potential crashes. But the growing space debris problem isn't easily solved, Zenko wrote in a recent blog post. Sixty countries own or operate satellites, he wrote, so no one country has sovereignty in space, leading to a "classic global governance dilemma." Outdated technology adds to the problem, military officials say. The U.S. space surveillance network can't detect many objects smaller than a football. That wouldn't be a problem, except smaller objects — maybe as many as 200,000, according to Gen. Robert Kehler, StratCom's commander — clutter the orbit used by the space shuttle, the International Space Station and many satellites. Kehler compared the highly used parts of space to Interstate 80, in testimony to a Senate Armed Services subcommittee last month. Responding to a question from Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., he pointed out that the tiny pieces of space debris rushing down the space highway aren't going the speed limit. "When you are talking about things moving at 17,000 mph, for example, collisions can occur at those speeds. That is faster than a .30-06 round, by the way . Those kind of speeds are particularly damaging if you talk about the unintended collision," Kehler said. Help is on the way, but it isn't cheap or controversy-free. The "space fence," which is in the development phase, is a comprehensive radar system that will allow the military to detect between 200,000 and 500,000 pieces of space debris when fully operational in 2020. The current radar system can detect about 22,000, according to Bird. The new space fence will be able to see smaller objects and see them for a longer period of time because of advanced sensors placed around the globe.


And the United States operates the most extensive and complete catalog of space objects now but gaps remain in the southern hemisphere
Brian Weeden October 8, 2010 Space Situational Awareness Fact Sheet http://swfound.org/media/1800/ssa%20fact%20sheet.pdf
The United States operates the largest network of sensors and maintains the most complete catalog of space objects, although there are gaps in its coverage and catalog. The U.S. system is known as the Space Surveillance Network (SSN) and is managed by the military. It consists primarily of phased array radars primarily used for missile warning and optical telescopes, along with a few mechanical tracking ra­ dars and a large space fence located along the southern United States. The U.S. military also operates a space­based tracking telescope onboard the Space­Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) satellite. The SSN has little to no coverage in the Southern Hemisphere or in South America, Africa, and Asia. Observations of space objects from SSN sensors flows to the central command and control center called the Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), located Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. Operators combine these observations to produce an element set for each tracked space object which describes its position in space. The JSpOC maintains a satellite catalog of all the known element sets and uses this to perform a variety of analyses to support commercial and civil spaceflight safety along with military and intelligence applications

<span style="text-decoration: none;">GEO is most important to track—most Russian and American satellites are stationed here</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Thomas Graham Jr. December 2005</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space Weapons and The Risk of Accidental Nuclear War </span>Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, Mr. Graham was a foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University. [[http://www.gsinstitute.org/docs/Graham_Space_ACT_12-05.pdfMStef]]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">These dangers would be particularly worrisome for those components that are placed in geosynchronous orbits (GEO). Space objects in GEO are sufﬁciently far from the earth (about 36,000 kilometers) so that their speed roughly matches the rotational speed of the Earth and they remain “stationary” above one location. To be sure, any country that can place a satellite in these farther orbits—and there are several—could potentially threaten another country’s satellites there. Yet, it would be easier to do so, and perhaps more importantly, the threat perception would be greater with weapons based in space than with existing ground-based technology. The 15 U.S. early warning satellites are almost entirely in GEO. The three functioning Russian early warning satellites utilize two different orbits. Two of the satellites use a highly elliptical orbit, which ranges from low-Earth orbit (LEO)—100 to 2,000 kilometers above the Earth where space objects travel at about 8 kilometers per second—out to GEO. The other satellite is permanently stationed in GEO. Moreover, a space arms competition could hinder the ﬂow of satellite imagery that can be used to track activities that might reveal programs to develop weapons of mass destruction in countries of concern. For example, activities detected through space-based collection systems can be used to trigger requests for inspections pursuant to the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) (implicitly) or the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (explicitly), should that treaty be brought into force. It is important in this respect to recall that the suspicions that Israel and South Africa may have conducted an atmospheric nuclear test in 1979 were driven by readout from a U.S. VELA satellite. Similarly, the United States has beneﬁted from the revolution in national intelligence that began with and is based on photographic reconnaissance satellites and related systems, which has helped bring to an end the worst-case analysis and close calls with nuclear war that existed throughout the Cold War. If a truly peaceful and stable world order is ever achieved, the advent of this technology beginning in the late 1950s will be regarded by future generations as a major historical turning point.</span>

Data sharing exists now, however opacity will overwhelm accuracy this makes systems vulnerable and miscalculation inevitable
NSTAC 09 (The President’s National Aecurity Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf)
Operators continuously and accurately track the locations of their own satellites and rely on in-house close-approach monitoring systems to ensure the safety of their fleets. Most operators also incorporate information from the U.S. Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC) when analyzing potential close approaches between satellites or between satellites and trackable debris. The basic information (referred to as Two-Line Element [TLE] data) used in this process is available to authorized users of the U.S. Government’s “Spacetrack.org” website. Operators routinely screen satellites using TLE data, and also exchange data with other operators with near or adjacent satellites during special activities such as satellite relocations and transfer orbit missions. The data exchange usually consists of the latest location information, near-term maneuver plans, transmission frequencies, and contact information for further discussion. There are drawbacks to the current close-approach monitoring process. In addition to a lack of standards for TLE modeling, TLE data does not have the required accuracy for credible collision detection. An operator that relies on TLE data must increase the calculated collision margin to avoid potential close approaches, therefore increasing the number of maneuvers. Maneuvers based on inaccurate data can waste fuel, shorten the life of satellites, and in some cases can introduce uncertainties that decrease the safety of space operations. In most cases, threats identified using basic TLE data are downgraded after coordination with other operators or further evaluation with more precise orbital data. TLE data also lacks reliable planned maneuver information, which limits the usefulness of data for longer-term predictions since future maneuver information is necessary to properly predict the orbital location of active satellites. <span style="color: black;">Today, operators relying on chemical propulsion systems maneuver about once every two weeks to maintain their orbital position. Accurately predicting the orbital location of a satellite will become more challenging with satellites that employ ionic propulsion systems40 and are in essence constantly maneuvering. Adding complexity to this problem is the fact that there is no single standard for representing the position of an object in space. Operators characterize the orbital position of their satellites differently depending on the software used for flight operations. In addition, there is no single agreed-upon protocol for sharing information, and coordinating operators must be prepared to accommodate the practices of other operators. To do this, operators must maintain redundant file transfer protocols and tools to convert and reformat information so that it is consistent with other software systems for computing close approaches. Some operators write their own software tools for monitoring and predicting the close approach of other spacecraft while others contract with third parties for this service. Therefore, separate tools for each operator are necessary to exchange data. The magnitude of the effort to maintain space situational awareness grows quickly as the number of coordinating operators increases. Further, not all satellite companies participate in close-approach monitoring due to lack of financial resources or appropriately skilled technicians.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nuclear tensions between US and Russia is high and space debris striking a Russian early warning satellite would trigger an accidental nuclear war</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Lewis 4 - a postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(Jeffrey, “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios, Center for Defense Information Washington, D.C. July 2004 http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf) </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space weapons might create incentives for America’s opponents to behave in dangerous ways. The previous scenario looked at the systemic risk of accidents that could arise from keeping nuclear weapons on high alert to guard against a space weapons attack. This section focuses on the risk that a single accident in space, such as a piece of space debris striking a Russian early-warning satellite, might be the catalyst for an accidental nuclear war. As we have noted in an earlier section, the United States canceled its own ASAT program in the 1980s over concerns that the deployment of these weapons might be deeply destabilizing. For all the talk about a “new relationship” between the United States and Russia, both sides retain thousands of nuclear forces on alert and configured to fight a nuclear war. When briefed about the size and status of U.S. nuclear forces, President George W. Bush reportedly asked “What do we need all these weapons for?”43 The answer, as it was during the Cold War, is that the forces remain on alert to conduct a number of possible contingencies, including a nuclear strike against Russia. This fact, of course, is not lost on the Russian leadership, which has been increasing its reliance on nuclear weapons to compensate for the country’s declining military might. In the mid-1990s, Russia dropped its pledge to refrain from the “first use” of nuclear weapons and conducted a series of exercises in which Russian nuclear forces prepared to use nuclear weapons to repel a NATO invasion. In October 2003, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov reiterated that Moscow might use nuclear weapons “preemptively” in any number of contingencies, including a NATO attack.44 So, it remains business as usual with U.S. and Russian nuclear forces. And business as usual includes the occasional false alarm of a nuclear attack. There have been several of these incidents over the years. In September 1983, as a relatively new Soviet early-warning satellite moved into position to monitor U.S. missile fields in North Dakota, the sun lined up in just such a way as to fool the Russian satellite into reporting that half a dozen U.S. missiles had been launched at the Soviet Union. Perhaps mindful that a brand new satellite might malfunction, the officer in charge of the command center that monitored data from the early-warning satellites refused to pass the alert to his superiors. He reportedly explained his caution by saying: “When people start a war, they don’t start it with only five missiles. You can do little damage with just five missiles.”45 In January 1995, Norwegian scientists launched a sounding rocket on a trajectory similar to one that a U.S. Trident missile might take if it were launched to blind Russian radars with a high altitude nuclear detonation. The incident was apparently serious enough that, the next day, Russian President Boris Yeltsin stated that he had activated his “nuclear football” – a device that allows the Russian president to communicate with his military advisors and review his options for launching his arsenal. In this case, the Russian early-warning satellites could clearly see that no attack was under way and the crisis passed without incident.46 In both cases, Russian observers were confident that what appeared to be a “small” attack was not a fragmentary picture of a much larger one. In the case of the Norwegian sounding rocket, space-based sensors played a crucial role in assuring the Russian leadership that it was not under attack. The Russian command system, however, is no longer able to provide such reliable, early warning. The dissolution of the Soviet Union cost Moscow several radar stations in newly independent states, creating “attack corridors” through which Moscow could not see an attack launched by U.S. nuclear submarines.47 Further, Russia’s constellation of early-warning satellites has been allowed to decline – only one or two of the six satellites remain operational, leaving Russia with early warning for only six hours a day. Russia is attempting to reconstitute its constellation of early-warning satellites, with several launches planned in the next few years. But Russia will still have limited warning and will depend heavily on its space-based systems to provide warning of an American attack.48 As the previous section explained, the Pentagon is contemplating military missions in space that will improve U.S. ability to cripple Russian nuclear forces in a crisis before they can execute an attack on the United States. Anti-satellite weapons, in this scenario, would blind Russian reconnaissance and warning satellites and knock out communications satellites. Such strikes might be the prelude to a full-scale attack, or a limited effort, as attempted in a war game at Schriever Air Force Base, to conduct “early deterrence strikes” to signal U.S. resolve and control escalation.49 By 2010, the United States may, in fact, have an arsenal of ASATs (perhaps even on orbit 24/7) ready to conduct these kinds of missions – to coerce opponents and, if necessary, support preemptive attacks. Moscow would certainly have to worry that these ASATs could be used in conjunction with other space-enabled systems – for example, long-range strike systems that could attack targets in less than 90 minutes – to disable Russia’s nuclear deterrent before the Russian leadership understood what was going on. </span>

Russian war is THE only scenario for extinction – evaluate the round based on magnitude – we control the only existential risk
Bostrom, 02 -Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University (Nick, March, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]])
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Empirically Russian early warning satellites fail—our miscalculation scenario has happened before—Yeltsin was two minutes away from launching nuclear weapons because of failure to determine nature of missile </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Thomas Graham Jr. December 2005</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space Weapons and The Risk of Accidental Nuclear War </span>Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, Mr. Graham was a foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University. [[http://www.gsinstitute.org/docs/Graham_Space_ACT_12-05.pdfMStef]]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Russian early warning system is in serious disrepair. This system consists of older radar systems nearing the end of their operational life and just three functioning satellites, although the Russian military has plans to deploy more. The United States has 15 such satellites. Ten years ago, on January 25, 1995, this aging early warning network picked up a rocket launch from Norway. The Russian military could not determine the nature of the missile or its destination. Fearing that it might be a submarine launched missile aimed at Moscow with the purpose of decapitating the Russian command and control structure, the Russian military alerted President Boris Yeltsin, his defense minister, and the chief of the general staff. They immediately opened an emergency teleconference to determine whether they needed to order Russia’s strategic forces to launch a counterattack. The rocket that had been launched was actually an atmospheric sounding rocket conducting scientiﬁc observations of the aurora borealis. Norway had notiﬁed Russia of this launch several weeks earlier, but the message had not reached the relevant sections of the military. In little more than two minutes before the deadline to order nuclear retaliation, the Russians realized their mistake and stood down their strategic forces. Thus, 10 years ago, when the declining Russian early warning system was stronger than today, it read this single small missile test launch as a U.S. nuclear missile attack on Russia. The alarm went up the Russian chain of command all the way to the top. The briefcase containing the nuclear missile launch codes was brought to Yeltsin as he was told of the attack. Fortunately, Yeltsin and the Russian leadership made the correct decision that day and directed the Russian strategic nuclear forces to stand down.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Deterrence theory proves countries won’t intentionally attack—all their yes war arguments are based on cases of one strong nation and a weaker nation—if we win the status quo is different than this you vote aff </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Dagobert L. Brito and Michael D. Intriligator Mar., 1996 Proliferation and the Probability of War: A Cardinality Theorem Source: The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 40, No. 1 </span><span style="color: black;">Dagobert L. Brito is the Peterkin Professor of Political Economy and Baker Institute Scholar at Rice University. He also has a faculty appointment at Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas, A. C. (CIDE) in Mexico where he is working on energy and regulatory issues. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Intriligator is professor emeritus of economics, political science and public policy at UCLA. </span>He received his M.A. from Yale University, where he was the recipient of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, and was awarded his Ph.D. from MIT.
[[http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.baylor.edu/stable/pdfplus/174452.pdf?acceptTC=true]] MStef
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The relatively high probability of war of both the case of the one nuclear nation and the case of one nuclear nation and an emerging nuclear nation is reduced as the new nuclear nation acquires sufficient nuclear weapons to deter the major nuclear power. With enough nuclear weapons on each side, the bipolar world is one of great stability against war outbreak because each nuclear nation deters the other by having enough weapons to inflict unacceptable damage on a retaliatory second strike (Intriligator and Brito 1984). Consider, then, the situation of two major nuclear powers and one newly emerging nuclear power. There is still the danger of a surgical strike, but it is less than in the previous case of a newly emerging nuclear power because the existing powers must either act jointly, which is difficult to achieve, or run the risk of retaliation by the other or of being weakened vis-a-vis the other in the case of a unilateral action. The resulting uncertainty over the reaction of the other nuclear power will make each hesitant to strike at the newly emerging power. After the third nuclear power has acquired sufficient weapons to deter a strike by one of the first two powers, the probability of war is even further reduced because its presence and capabilities restrain the major powers from initiating a war either against it or against each other. Each power is uncertain of the response of the other, which can either assist the attacked nation or not participate and become the dominant power in the postwar world. As additional nations acquire nuclear weapons, it becomes more likely that there will be other nuclear powers prepared to exploit any postwar weakness of the initiating power, further reinforcing general deterrence and thus enhancing stability against war outbreak. The probability of a deliberate initiation of a war thus decreases as the acquisition of nuclear weapons restrains the existing nuclear nations. Increasing the number of nuclear nations implies that a nation that initiates a war would be relatively worse off in the postwar environment, both in the case in which the other nuclear nations are belligerents and in the case in which they remain neutral. Increas- ing the number of nuclear nations also increases the uncertainty about how other nuclear powers will react during and after a war.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Deliberate nuclear war likelihood has decreased but accidental war is more likely than ever for three reasons—large nuclear arsenals, economic and social problems, and vulnerability of Russian forces </span>
Carol Giocamo, of Reuters News Service, May 22, 2003 MISCALCULATION / ACCIDENTAL NUCLEAR WAR THREAT INCREASES The Old Dangers made New - Experts Fear U.S.-Russia Nuclear 'Miscalculation' http://nuclearfreenz.org.nz/miscalculations.htm
Nunn said the post-Cold War era has seen lessened chances of a premeditated nuclear strike by Washington or Moscow, but "on balance my belief is that the risk has increased ... for a perfect storm in terms of a nuclear miscalculation or an accident." The RAND study cites three reasons for this: First, the United States and Russia retain large nuclear forces on "hair-trigger" alert, meaning they could be launched in minutes and destroy both societies in an hour. Second, economic and social problems have led Russia to rely increasingly on nuclear arms. The number of Russian weapons that could survive a U.S. first strike attack has declined dramatically, its submarine fleet has been "decimated," its early warning system has deteriorated to the point of "serious disrepair," and many of its intercontinental ballistic missiles are "well beyond their planned service lives," the report says. Moreover, "the breakdown of order in Russia, economic difficulties, and low morale of its military personnel and the rise of organized crime and separatist violence have increased concern" about nuclear force security, it said. Third, the vulnerability of Russian forces is enhanced by the increasing capability of U.S. forces to deliver accurate and devastating strikes, the report concluded. All this means "the incentive (for Moscow) is to launch quickly - use it or lose it," said David Mosher, one author of the study. The report foresaw three scenarios: an intentional unauthorized nuclear weapon launch by a terrorist or rogue commander; a missile launched by mistake; or an intentional launch of nuclear weapons based on incorrect or incomplete information.

Enhanced SSA solves miscalculation- tracking abilities creates distinctions between threats and non-threats
MacDonald ’08 – former assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as well as senior director for science and technology on the National Security Council staff (Bruce W, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security,” i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/China_Space_CSR38.pdf, RBW)
SSA is the ability to track and understand what objects are in orbit and what their capabilities are. By providing real-time or near real-time location and status information on spacecraft, SSA enables better management and operation of these assets and provides warnings of potential hazards—natural or manmade, intentional or unintentional— to allow preventive or mitigating steps to be taken. In addition, accurate SSA is needed to know for certain if a satellite’s operations have been intentionally affected by an adversary. The United States currently maintains a public information data network that provides important orbital and related information on over twelve thousand detectable orbiting objects, data that it makes freely available on the Internet. Yet many experts agree that the United States “needs significant improvements in space situational awareness, such as the development of the ability to attribute in real time all activity in circumterrestrial space … including birth to death tracking and assessment of all threats capable of affecting [U.S.] space systems,” similar to the role civilian authorities play in air travel.16 Whether one wants to pursue a purely defensive space policy or a mixture of offense and defense, improved SSA is imperative. Air Force Space Command has called for much better capabilities to identify what is already in space, understand orbiting objects’ mission, and, ultimately, determine intent. The U.S. Army has placed improved SSA near the top of its list of needs. Improved SSA has broad support among both supporters and opponents of offensive counterspace. The United States would be well served by going beyond SSA and enhancing space intelligence that better understands the purpose and motivation behind the space objects being identified and tracked.17 Otherwise, understandable worst-case planning could lead to just the kind of escalation in a crisis that all parties seek to avoid. In addition, satellites themselves need to be alert to their surroundings and sense when they are threatened or under attack. Furthermore, the United States must be able to attribute an attack to a particular country, a prerequisite to any effective retaliation or deterrence strategy.

=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Advantage 2 is Asteroids</span>= 

Political support for NEO detection is weak in the status quo—no organization has control over the problem and this leads to potential for failure
Sadeh ’11 [Eligar, American political scientist and academic Assistant Professor, Department of Space Studies University of North Dakota, Ch. 13 Space Power and the Environment, Toward a Theory of Spacepower, June 13, 2011, [[http://www.opensourcesinfo.org/journal/2011/6/13/toward-a-theory-of-spacepower-selected-essays.html]], MStef]
Most of the potentially hazardous NEOs travel in predictable orbits and can be detected decades in advance. One important issue surrounding NEOs deals with political support for detection and surveying efforts and with governance and authority over them. An arrangement aimed at more systematic detection and surveying began in 1988 with the Spacewatch survey, which involved detection efforts ongoing at NASA and a network of amateur astronomers. In 1989, detection efforts documented a NEO near-miss with Earth. This led to political advocacy before the U.S. Congress that resulted in a NASA Multiyear Authorization Act of 1990 that called for NASA to increase the detection rate of NEOs on an international basis. Following this, in 1991, the House Committee on Science and Technology directed NASA to conduct workshops and studies on the issue. The findings of the workshops were presented to Congress, and in 1994 the Committee on Science and Technology amended the NASA Authorization Act and called for NASA to cooperate with DOD and foreign national space agencies to identify and catalogue within 10 years potentially hazardous NEOs greater than 1 km in diameter. The plan to carry out identification and cataloguing, known as the Spaceguard survey, was initiated by NASA in 1998 in cooperation with U.S. Space Command Space Surveillance Networks. As of May 2009, NASA had identified 6,242 NEOs and the orbits of 1,047 potentially hazardous asteroids.39 However, NEOs between 150 m and 1 km can have global effects.40 As such, a new program was called for in the NASA Authorization Act of 2005 to detect, track, catalogue, and characterize the physical characteristics of NEOs larger than 140 m in size, with the goal to achieve 90 percent completion of the survey by 2020. In 2007, NASA studied the option of such a program and determined that at current budgetary allocations, it can continue to fund the Spaceguard program through 2012, but it cannot initiate a new program as suggested in the 2005 Authorization Act.41 Obviously, budgetary allocations and priorities are not congruous with what is directed by policy and what is needed to provide for a more robust planetary defense mission. This also begs the question of who is in charge of such a mission. The political evolution of the NEO issue demonstrates problems of authority and governance. NASA has taken the lead on this and cooperates with DOD for detection, but no one has authority over the problem.42 No U.S. agency—not NASA, DOD, Air Force Space Command, or the Department of Homeland Security—has been assigned the mission of planetary defense. There are no formal plans or procedures to deal with the NEO issue as it relates to mitigation or to counter the fallout from an impact. This raises the concern of whether planetary defense should be a DOD mission.43 In other words, should DOD assume a mission to secure the global commons in relation to NEOs, as figure 13–1 below suggests? If this was the case, then should this be part of the calculus with spacepower projection? Is it logical to include in counterspace operations the possible deployment of space weapons, even the use of standoff nuclear weapons, for planetary defense? These are questions that require answers within the context of spacepower theory development.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">And the plan addresses the root cause of the asteroid problem—geopolitical struggles are the cause of failed systems the tech is already in the place</span>
Natalie Wolchover, Life's Little Mysteries Staff Writer 16 August 2011 Will We Be Able to Deflect an Earthbound Asteroid? [[http://www.space.com/12645-asteroid-deflection-doomsday-earth-capability.html]] MStef
A 6-mile-wide asteroid that struck off the coast of present-day Mexico 65 million years ago induced ecological changes that wiped out the dinosaurs. Inevitably, an Earth-shaking chunk of space debris will strike again. However, so many earthly worries exist that a cosmic one which, at any given moment, is infinitesimally small doesn't garner much attention — or government funding. Several scientists who study asteroid hazards agree: Humankind probably won't start readying its planetary defenses until we know the danger is real. We'll need evidence that a large asteroid is actually headed here. Will it be too late by then? It depends. "Human beings can solve any technical problems that are put in front of us," said Daniel Durda, senior planetary scientist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo., and an expert on asteroid collisions. "It's the social and political issues that we struggle with." Rusty Schweickart, former NASA astronaut and founding member of the B612 Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting the Earth from asteroid strikes, concurred: "The geopolitical realities are daunting. The technical issues are easy by comparison."

Small threat detection is key to build credibility for large threat detection and mitigation—public policy leaders are far more receptive to immediate threats that could affect their administration
Simon P. Worden 7 February 2000 NEOS, PLANETARY DEFENSE AND GOVERNMENT - A VIEW FROM THE PENTAGON [[http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/ce020700.html]] Worden was a Research Professor of Astronomy, Optical Sciences and Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona where his primary research direction was the development of large space optics for national security and scientific purposes and near-earth asteroids. Additionally, he worked on topics related to space exploration and solar-type activity in nearby stars. He is a recognized expert on space issues — both civil and military. He has authored or co-authored more than 150 scientific technical papers in astrophysics, space sciences, and strategic studies.
NEO discussions in the United States have, as I believe they have everywhere, suffered from the fact that catastrophic NEO impacts are so rare and hence so unlikely to occur in our lifetimes. Whereas people may pay good money to see a movie thriller about asteroid strikes or read with great interest of the demise of the dinosaurs, a once-every-few-tens-of-millions-of-years possibility is not real to most people. Decision makers simply are unwilling to spend scarce resources on such an unlikely catastrophe--however terrible it may be or even if it is inevitable. Conversely, I can show people evidence of real strikes inflicting local and regional damage less than a century ago. Even more compelling are the frequent kiloton-level detonations our early warning satellites see in the earth's atmosphere. These are threats the public and its leaders will take seriously. These are threats we can understand. And these are even threats we could mitigate, if required, without recourse to nuclear technology.

The impact to a large asteroid strike is extinction
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened off the coast of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula 65 million years earlier. Here a 10-kilometre asteroid or comet—its exact nature is uncertain—crashed into the sea and changed our world forever. Within microseconds, an unimaginable explosion released as much energy as billions of Hiroshima bombs detonated simultaneously, creating a titanic fireball hotter than the Sun that vaporized the ocean and excavated a crater 180 kilometres across in the crust beneath. Shock waves blasted upwards, tearing the atmosphere apart and expelling over a hundred trillion tonnes of molten rock into space, later to fall across the globe. Almost immediately an area bigger than Europe would have been flattened and scoured of virtually all life, while massive earthquakes rocked the planet. The atmosphere would have howled and screamed as hypercanes five times more powerful than the strongest hurricane ripped the landscape apart, joining forces with huge tsunamis to batter coastlines many thousandsof kilometres distant. Even worse was to follow. As the rock blasted into space began to rain down across the entire planet so the heat generated by its re-entry into the atmosphere irradiated the surface, roasting animals alive as effectively as an oven grill, and starting great conflagrations that laid waste the world's forests and grasslands and turned fully a quarter of all living material to ashes. Even once the atmosphere and oceans had settled down, the crust had stopped shuddering, and the bombardment of debris from space had ceased, more was to come. In the following weeks, smoke and dust in the atmosphere blotted out the Sun and brought temperatures plunging by as much as 15 degrees Celsius. In the growing gloom and bitter cold the surviving plant life wilted and died while those herbivorous dinosaurs that remained slowly starved. global wildfires and acid rain from the huge quantities of sulphur injected into the atmosphere from rocks at the site of the impact poured into the oceans, wiping out three-quarters of all marine life. After years of freezing conditions the gloom following the so-called Chicxulub impact would eventually have lifted, only to reveal a terrible Sun blazing through the tatters of an ozone layer torn apart by the chemical action of nitrous oxides concocted in the impact fireball: an ultraviolet spring hard on the heels of the cosmic winter that fried many of the remaining species struggling precariously to hang on to life. So enormously was the natural balance of the Earth upset that according to some it might have taken hundreds of thousands of years for the post-Chicxulub Earth to return to what passes for normal. When it did the age of the great reptiles was finally over, leaving the field to the primitive mammals—our distant ancestors—and opening an evolutionary trail that culminated in the rise and rise of the human race. But could we go the same way1?To assess the chances, let me look a little more closely at the destructive power of an impact event. At Tunguska, destruction of the forests resulted partly from the great heat generated by the explosion, but mainly from the blast wave that literally pushed the trees over and flattened them against the ground. The strength of this blast wave depends upon what is called the peak overpressure, that is the difference between ambient pressure and the pressure of the blastwave. In order to cause severe destruction thisnccds to exceed 4. pounds per square inch, an overpressure that results in wind speeds that arc over twice the force of those found in a typical hurricane. Even though tiny compared with, say, the land area of London, the enormous overpressures generated by a 50-metre object exploding low overhead would cause damage comparable with the detonation of a very large nuclear device, obliterating almost everything within the city's orbital motorway. Increase the size of the impactor and things get very much worse. An asteroid just 250 metres across would be sufficiently massive to penetrate the atmosphere; blasting a crater 5 kilometres across and devastating an area of around 10,000 square kilometres— that is about the size of the English county of Kent. Raise the size of the asteroid again, to 650 metres, and the area of devastation increases to ioo;ooo square kilometres—about the size of the US state of South Carolina. Terrible as this all sounds, however, even this would be insufficient to affect the entire planet. In order to do this, an impactor has to be at least 1 kilometre across, if it is one of the speedier comets, or 1.5 kilometres in diameter if it is one of the slower asteroids. A collision with one of these objects would generate a blast equivalent to 100.000 million tonnes of TNT, which would obliterate an area 500 kilometres across say the size of England—and kill perhaps tens of millions of people, depending upon the location of the impact. The real problems for the rest of the world would start soon after as dust in the atmosphere began to darken the skies and reduce the level of sunlight reaching the Earth's surface. By comparison with the huge Chicxulub impact it is certain that this would result in a dramatic lowering of global temperatures but there is no consensus on just how bad this would be. The chances are, however, that an impact of this size would result in appalling weather conditions and crop failures at least as severe as those of the 'Year Without a Summer'; 'which followed the 1815 eruption of Indonesia's Tambora volcano. As mentioned in the last chapter, with even developed countries holding sufficient food to feed their populations for only a month or so, large-scale crop failures across the planet would undoubtedly have serious implications. Rationing, at the very least, is likely to be die result, with a worst case scenario seeing widespread disruption of the social and economic fabric of developed nations. In the developing world, where subsistence farming remains very much the norm, wide-spread failure of the harvests could be expected to translate rapidly into famine on a biblical scale Some researchers forecast that as many as a quarter of the world's population could succumb to a deteriorating climate following an impact in the 1—1.5 kilometre size range. Anything bigger and photosynthesis stops completely. Once this happens the issue is not how many people will die but whether the human race will survive. One estimate proposes that the impact of an object just 4- kilometres across will inject sufficient quantities of dust and debris into the atmosphere to reduce light levels below those required for photosynthesis. Because we still don't know how many threatening objects there are out there nor whether they come in bursts, it is almost impossible to say when the Earth will be struck by an asteroid or comet that will bring to an end the world as we know it. Impact events on the scale of the Chicxulub dinosaur-killer only occur every several tens of millions of years, so in any single year the chances of such an impact arc tiny. Any optimism is, however, tempered by the fact that— should the Shiva hypothesis be true—the next swarm of Oort Cloud comets could even now be speeding towards the inner solar system. Failing this, we may have only another thousand years to wait until the return of the dense part of the Taurid Complex and another asteroidal assault. Even if it turns out that there is no coherence in the timing of impact events, there is statistically no reason why we cannot be hit next year by an undiscovered Earth-Crossing Asteroid or by a long-period comet that has never before visited the inner solar system. Small impactors on the Tunguska scale struck Brazil in 1931 and Greenland in 1097, and will continue to pound the Earth every few decades. Because their destructive footprint is tiny compared to the surface area of the Earth, however, it would be very bad luck if one of these hit an urban area, and most will fall in the sea. Although this might seem a good thing, a larger object striking the ocean would be very bad news indeed. A 500-metre rock landing in the Pacific Basin, for example, would generate gigantic tsunamis that would obliterate just about every coastal city in the hemisphere within 20 hours or so. The chances of this happening arc actually quite high—about 1 per cent in the next 100 years—and the death toll could well top half a billion. Estimates of the frequencies of impacts in the 1 kilometre size bracket range from 100,000 to 333,000 years, but the youngest impact crater produced by an object of this size is almost a million years old. Of course, there could have been several large impacts since, which cither occurred in the sea or have not yet been located on land. Fair enough you might say, the threat is clearly out there, but is there anything on the horizon? Actually, there is. Some 13 asteroids—mostly quite small—could feasibly collide with the Earth before 2100. Realistically, however, this is not very likely as the probabilities involved arc not much greater than 1 in io;ooo— although bear in mind that these arc pretty good odds. If this was the probability of winning the lottery then my local agent would be getting considerably more of my business. There is another enigmatic object out there, however. Of the 40 or so Near Earth Asteroids spotted last year, one — designated 2000SG344—looked at first as if it might actually hit us. The object is small, in the 100 metre size range, and its orbit is so similar to the earth that some have suggested it may be a booster rocket that sped one of the Apollo spacecraft on its way to the Moon. Whether hunk of rock or lump of man-made metal, it was originally estimated that 2000SG344 had a 1 in 500 chance of striking the Earth on 21 September 2030. Again, these may sound very long odds, but they are actually only five times greater than those recently offered during summer 2001 for England beating Germany 5-1 at football. We can all relax now anyway, as recent calculations have indicated that the object will not approach closer to the Earth than around five million kilometres. A few years ago, scientists came up with an index to measure the impact threat, known as the Torino Scale, and so far 2000SG2144 is the first object to register a value greater than zero. The potential impactor originally scraped into category 1, events meriting careful monitoring. Let's hope that many years elapse before we encounter the first category 10 event—defined as 'a certain collision with global consequences'. Given sufficient warning we might be able to nudge an asteroid out of the Earth's way but due to its size, high velocity, and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction.

No impact can outweigh this—nothing else threatens extinction
McGUIRE 2002 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)
Probably the only piece of good news that can be taken away from my brief look at the end of the world as we know it is that although this is going to happen — and soon—the survival of our race seems to be assured, for now at least. Leaving aside the possibility of a major comet or asteroid impact on a scale of the dinosaur-killer 65 million years ago— which only happen every few hundred million years—it is highly unlikely that anything else is going to wipe out every single last one of us—all 6 billion plus—in the foreseeable future. Even the replacement of the world with which we have become so familiar with one of sweltering heat or bitter cold might not seem as scary for those of our descendants likely to be in the thick of things. After all, we are a remarkably adaptable species, and can change to match new circumstances with some aplomb. Familiar 'worlds' have certainly ended many times before, as no doubt a centenarian born and raised while Queen Victoria sat on the throne of the United Kingdom, and who lived to sec man land on the moon, would testify. The danger is, however, that the world of our children and those that follow will be a world of struggle and strife with little prospect of, and perhaps little enthusiasm for, progress as the Victorians viewed it. Indeed, it would not be entirely surprising if, at some future time, as the great coastal cities sink beneath the waves or below sheets of ice, the general consensus did not hold that there had been quite enough progress thank you—at least for a while. While I have tried in these pages to extrapolate current trends and ideas to tease out and examine somewhat depressing scenarios for the future of our planet and our race, I am sure that, to some extent at least, you would be justified in accusing me of a failure of the imagination. After all, I have rarely looked ahead beyond a few tens of thousands of years, and yet our Sun will still be bathing our planet in its life-giving warmth for another 5 billion years or more. Who knows, over that incomprehensible length of time, what Homo sapiens and the species that evolve from us will do and become. Our species and those that follow may be knocked back time and time again in the short term, but provided we learn to nurture our environment rather than exploit it, both here on Earth—before the Sun eventually swallows it up—and later, perhaps, in the solar system and the galaxy and beyond, then we have the time to do and be almost anything. Maybe now is the right time to start.

SSA would be increased by an asteroid detection program—more funding would allow STRATCOM to fully explore and develop better solutions to prevent asteroids
Garreston and Kaupa 2007 – Lt. Col. AND Major in the Air Force (March 1, “ Planetary Defense: Potential Department of Defense Mitigation Roles ” [[http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/documents/Potential-DoD-Roles--Garretson.pdf]])
STRATCOM already maintains a space surveillance system. Creating a robust and automated system to survey the sky continually for asteroids or comets to complement current discovery programs would likely improve space situational awareness. Such systems could use existing military ground-based sites for electrooptical, deep-space surveillance telescopes to provide follow-up tracking of newly discovered NEAs. By having more resources and people examine the planetary-defense mission, we could develop better systems and solutions. Although merely assigning the planetary defense mission to STRATCOM would not constitute a complete fix, it represents the immediate next step to address the issue. Following authorization and assignment of the mission to one specific agency, we can start to examine other milestones. One of these entails conducting a tabletop scenario to assess our reaction capability and reveal significant capability gaps in order to determine useful directions for exploration and the development of a concept of operations (CONOPS). An exercise of this nature would expose a much broader level of designers to the problems of planetary defense and possible options. It would also bring together key agencies to begin a dialogue about how to pursue interagency communication and actions.20 Although the central player, STRATCOM would never be the only one. Developing proper interagency coordination-a necessary enabler for this mission-would help identify shortcomings, which might include notification procedures for an inbound asteroid, methods and times for informing the press, and international cooperation roles for altering the trajectory of an Earth-bound asteroid. Proper coordination between internal and external agencies supporting mitigation (AFSPC, NASA, a searching program, etc.) and those agencies dealing with consequences should mitigation fail (FEMA, DHS, etc.) could be effectively explored in the context of a tabletop scenario. Such an effort to coordinate agencies for a massive event would likely bear significant fruit across the full spectrum of operations. We need to address many adequacy and funding issues. If STRATCOM is tasked with the planetary-defense mission, the command needs to increase space situational awareness significantly in order to characterize the threat. Not only do we need to assess adequacy by analyzing mitigation options, analyzing alternatives, and establishing a contingency plan, but also we must create and execute scenarios between interagency mitigation and disaster response to understand each other's roles. The initial effort need not be large in terms of personnel or dollars. One recommendation calls for establishing an office to create CONOPS plans. Another involves commissioning studies, possibly from major universities, to examine alternative architectures for detection and mitigation similar to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Project Icarus.21 A third would initiate efforts from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and the Air Force Research Laboratory to help establish the best course of action to deflect an inbound asteroid (fig. 5). Further, a small military cadre assigned to NASA and FEMA could aid planning integration and create lines of communication. Funding is less limiting than lack of both authorization and a clear mandate. Much can be accomplished with little investment, which might amount to less than doubling the current $5 million budget utilized to search for PHAs.22The first and most important step in creating a planetary-defense plan is to find a home in the US government for such a program-preferably US STRATCOM. Other organizations would prove dysfunctional or suboptimal for US security. We would enhance our national defense capabilities by working under STRATCOM auspices to pursue technology that might not be available or easily transitioned if developed by another agency. The United States doesn't need a new dedicated agency or the inevitable duplication of effort that it would create. Once we decide upon a lead agency, we would then turn to developing a CONOPS, including the creation of interagency lines of communication. STRATCOM will not be the lone actor because mitigation policies will demand capabilities found in other organizations. After modifying existing search programs, we would identify the mitigation options that need development and testing. Massive extinctions have occurred in the past and can certainly occur again. Earth is not immune to collisions with asteroids and comets, but we can prepare for these events by establishing a solid planetary-defense plan.

<span style="color: black;">Continued investment is key—without it debris tracking fails</span>
<span style="color: black;">Robert Kehler 3/29, 201</span>1 <span style="color: black;">STATEMENT OF GENERAL C. ROBERT KEHLER COMMANDER UNITED STATES STRATEGIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICE General Kehler entered the Air Force in 1975 as a distinguished graduate of the Air Force ROTC program.The general's staff assignments include wing-level planning and tours with the Air Staff, Strategic Air Command headquarters and Air Force Space Command. He was also assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force's Office of Legislative Liaison, where he was the point man on Capitol Hill for matters regarding the President's ICBM Modernization Program. As Director of the National Security Space Office, he integrated the activities of a number of space organizations on behalf of the Under Secretary of the Air Force and Director, National Reconnaissance </span>Office. http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2011/03%20March/Kehler%2003-29-11.pdf
<span style="color: black;">Finally, we must continue to improve our capabilities and operating concepts in the important civil and national security areas of space and cyberspace. Ensuring uninterrupted access to space and space-based capabilities, improving our awareness of objects and activities in space, integrating their effects with all operational phases, improving space access, protection, and resilience, and expanding our planning and implementation for partnership operations requires that we continue our investment and that we demand acquisition results. For cyberspace, we must enhance network protection and mature our organizations, capabilities, workforce, and partnerships to ensure effective operations.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Small scale asteroids could strike within a month of detection—early detection is key</span>
Natalie Wolchover, Life's Little Mysteries Staff Writer 16 August 2011 Will We Be Able to Deflect an Earthbound Asteroid? [[http://www.space.com/12645-asteroid-deflection-doomsday-earth-capability.html]] MStef
There are dangers involved with asteroids under the 1-kilometer threshold, however. "Anything more than 300 to 400 meters (983-1,312 feet) in diameter can cause continental-scale damage," said Stephen Wolters, a research fellow at Caltech who studies <span style="color: #727f6e;">[[http://www.space.com/11093-photos-asteroids-deep-space-rocks.html|near-Earth asteroids]]</span> at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. NASA has begun locating and tracking smaller asteroids, but there are thousands still at large. If one of these were on course to strike Earth, sky surveys would give us no more than a month of warning. In that case, said Morrison, deflection is probably not an option. Instead, "you respond more like the way we handle hurricane warnings," evacuating people from the area most likely to be struck. Eventually we will track all asteroids larger than about 200 meters (656 feet) wide. The day scientists realize that one of these mid-size rocks has a chance of hitting us, and that we have enough time to do something about it, serious political strife will likely ensue, the experts say.

STRATCOM is best for asteroid detection STRATCOM is better at communication, and has military nuclear capability for deflection
Garreston and Kaupa 2007 – Lt. Col. AND Major in the Air Force (March 1, “ Planetary Defense: Potential Department of Defense Mitigation Roles ” [[http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/documents/Potential-DoD-Roles--Garretson.pdf]])
Since no US-assigned or -authorized planetary-defense missions exist, the DOD, as an organization, does not have any "impact defense" operations. Few individuals in the DOD perceive this lack of policy as a problem, and those few who do must contend with the giggle factor. This train of thought suppresses any further acknowledgement or research. Assignment of responsibility would rectify this problern, yet who should assume responsibility for a planetary-defense mission? Readers might wonder why the authors mentioned STRATCOM as a possibility. Why not some other part of the DOD? Why the DOD at all? Perhaps NASA could handle detection, reconnaissance, and mitigation missions while trying to replace the space shuttle and return to the moon. Maybe the DHS or Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) represent a better option since impacts might become a national disaster. Both NASA and the DOD have expertise in space matters and operate space assets, but NASA's core mission is space exploration. The DOD's core missions are maintaining US security, protecting American lives, and ensuring the security of our allies. Expertise aside, planetary defense is clearly a defense mission. Further, since the DOD maintains a robust space mission, the proposed mission appears more closely aligned with the strengths and scope of the DOD than with those of the DHS. Within the DOD, possible options might include AFSPC, the National security Space Office, the Missile Defense Agency, and STRATCOM. Several reasons make STRATCOM the best option. For one, STRATCOM's mission calls for "provid[ing] the nation with global deterrence capabilities and synchronized DOD effects to combat adversary weapons of mass destruction worldwide."18 The command coordinates DOD capabilities to thwart weapons of mass destruction. We can consider an inbound Earth-impacting rock a weapon, despite the absence of an adversary. A combatant command, STRATCOM has the established lines of communication and the authority to react to strategic-level threats. It already maintains global vigilance and space situational awareness. The former US Space Command has been dissolved and subsumed by STRATCOM. Through AFSPC, the command already maintains daily space surveillance for detecting launches of ballistic missiles and tracking artificial satellites and Earth-orbital debris. Although AFSPC maintains space assets, operational control falls under STRATCOM's authority. It also controls all military nuclear capability, perhaps the only option in certain minimum warning scenarios. Moreover, STRATCOM is well practiced and competent with respect to disseminating rapid warnings to civilian leadership and civil defense networks. Finally, the command has years of experience in negotiating and executing collective security arrangements, such as that of the North American Aerospace Defense Command with Canada and those involving the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.19





=Negative= 

[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - Specific Strategies]]

[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - T]]
[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - Case Negs]]
[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - Counterplans]]
[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - Disads]]
[[2011-2012 - Rosemount (MN) - Matthew Stefanko & Lisa Beard - Negative - Kritiks]]