[[toc]]
=Contact= 
Aff: [[mailto:gsmail718@gmail.com|gsmail718@gmail.com]]
Neg: [[mailto:vishruth.reddy@gmail.com|vishruth.reddy@gmail.com]]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ORS</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Capitol</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Text</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space. We’ll clarify. ;)</span>**

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**ORS exists now but it's underfunded**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> (H Mekesha, Air Force Major, March 2010, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set,”
http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">The Department of Defense defined ORS ... alteration in the current military space.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That hampers its ability to succeed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Felt 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Eric, Lt. Colonel, commander of the Space Test Operations Squadron, Space Test Group, Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico. The mission of the squadron is to conduct developmental test and evaluation of space systems, May 2010, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Build responsive space infrastructure: “U-2 ... the Missile Defense Agency model.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Up-front funding of ORS is key to short term solvency – avoids cost problems</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wilson and Haymond 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Burke, Colonel, commander, 45th Space Wing and director Eastern Range, Patrick AFB, Florida. He is responsible for the processing and launching of US government and commercial satellites from Cape Canaveral, Jeff, Colonel, vice commander of the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AF, May 2010, “Operationalizing Small Space: Challenges of Moving from Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation to Operations, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. Recognize an ounce of prevention ... determine the right balance.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deterrence</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Satellite vulnerability undercuts deterrence and makes a space attack inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (James, Air Force Colonel, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a ... Century</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> adversary attack capabilities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The PLA is gearing up for conflict in space – doctrine proves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel 8</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Larry, Retired Colonel, United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare,” Astropolitics, 6:112–137, Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The PLA Considers Tools of Space ... logistical support--in any future conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chinese military strategy focuses on quick pre-emptive strikes to neutralize our satellites – statements prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Putman 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Christopher, Major, USAF, Master’s thesis, September 2009, “COUNTERING THE CHINESE THREAT TO LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITES: BUILDING A DEFENSIVE SPACE STRATEGY,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">While China does not publish ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> capability</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> to deter and recover.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The PLA is ideologically separate from the Chinese government – makes crisis escalation risk high</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Bruce, Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">One characteristic of too many ... instability seems high and likely to grow.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ensures miscalculation and nuclear escalation over Taiwan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The erosion of the US ability ... satellites without fear of retribution</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.57</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic 9</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A war between China, Taiwan ...</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> be considered in this study.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Independently, ORS is key to prevent a US first strike of China</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Institute for International Peace, 2007 “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the successful Chinese ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> of accidents and misperception.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ORS is key to deterrence by denial – traditional deterrence doesn’t apply</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Lt Col Timothy A., congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, Pentagon, Washington DC. In this position, he serves as the single liaison on all space, cyber and nuclear matters between the Air Force and Congressional members and staff, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The space domain, often referred ... to augment existing systems for Tier 2.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space assets and responsiveness key to heg and warfighting capabilities</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Kevin, commanding general, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Command, May 2010, “The Warfighter's Perspective on Space Support,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eight plus years of persistent ... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">meet our warfighting requirements</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US leadership prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – it’s comparatively best</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert 7, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">... provide an easier path.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Launch Dependency</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current US launch capabilities are dependent upon foreign suppliers</span>**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burton 7</span> (Lt Col. USAF, “GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]],)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The national security of the ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> those scenarios and others.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**And, foreign suppliers will abuse dependence – wrecks the industrial base, tanks soft power, and kills the economy**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Burton 7<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Lt Col. USAF, “GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]],)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Control of the space launch market</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> has been ... services would be significantly limited.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The industrial base is key to the economy – multiple warrants</span>**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 9 </span>(Aerospace Industries Association of America, ??/??/09, “The Strength to Lift America”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_strength_aug09.pdf]])</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As the U.S. economy ... can’t be sent overseas</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic decline causes globe-wide conflicts</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Auslin and Lachman 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Michael, AEI's [American Enterprise Institute] director of Japan Studies, was an associate professor of history and senior research fellow at the MacMillan Center, and Desmond, AEI fellow, former deputy director in the International Monetary Fund's Policy Development and Review Department, “The Global Economy Unravels” Forbes, 3-6, [[http://www.forbes.com/2009/03/06/global-economy-unravels-opinions-contributors-g20.html]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What do these trends ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> that coalesce into a big bang.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, soft power prevents nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nye 96</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Joseph S. Nye Jr., created the theory of “soft power,” distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, 1996 (“Conflicts after the Cold War,” Washington Quarterly)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> As a result of such disjunctions ... and alliances, and global institutions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is vital to capitalizing the entire aerospace and commercial industrial base</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Given the importance of </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of a space assurance strategy.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maneuverable satellites save billions and are hard to track</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Co and Black 6/1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Captain Thomas C. Co is a PhD student at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Dr. Jonathan T. Black is an assistant professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at AFIT, “A Taskable Space Vehicle Realizing Cost Savings by Combining Orbital and Suborbital Flight”, Air and Space Power Journal, June 1st 2011,)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Complementing the ORS design ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> and increase operational flexibility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan increases maneuverability and expands mission efficiency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Co and Black 6/1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Captain Thomas C. Co is a PhD student at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Dr. Jonathan T. Black is an assistant professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at AFIT, “A Taskable Space Vehicle Realizing Cost Savings by Combining Orbital and Suborbital Flight”, Air and Space Power Journal, June 1st 2011,)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A small orbital change can affect ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> the advertised mission cost significantly.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Arms control is a joke – the incentive for China to cheat is too high</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Trevor Brown, BA from Indiana University in international studies, author focused on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space, 3/1/09, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite China’s repeated calls for ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> power while expanding hard power.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even if our epistemology isn’t perfect, it’s preferable to take action – the alt is policy paralysis</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Owen 2</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David, Professor of Social & Political Philosophy and Deputy Director, Centre for Philosophy and Value, at the University of Southampton, “Re-orienting International Relations: On Pragmatism, Pluralism, and Practical Reasoning”, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 31(3), p. 655-657)</span>

<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> potentially vicious circle arises</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Ridge</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Text: The Department of Defense should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing satellite hardening, satellite redundancy, and space situational awareness.</span>**

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The current framework is insufficient – up front funding is key to solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wilson and Haymond 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Burke, Colonel, commander, 45th Space Wing and director Eastern Range, Patrick AFB, Florida. He is responsible for the processing and launching of US government and commercial satellites from Cape Canaveral, Jeff, Colonel, vice commander of the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AF, May 2010, “Operationalizing Small Space: Challenges of Moving from Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation to Operations, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. Recognize an ounce of prevention… determine the right balance.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deterrence</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Satellite vulnerability undercuts deterrence and makes a space attack inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (James, Air Force Colonel, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese… </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The PLA is gearing up for conflict in space – doctrine proves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel 8</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Larry, Retired, Colonel, United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare,” Astropolitics, 6:112–137, Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The PLA Considers Tools of Space… logistical support--in any future conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of deterrence ensures miscalculation and escalation over Taiwan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The erosion of the US ability… satellites without fear of retribution.57</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China war happens only over Taiwan – our evidence assumes and subsumes</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Michael, adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, 07 “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> War between China and Taiwan… would sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic 9</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A war between China, Taiwan… be</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> considered in this study.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Redundancy prevents conflict by spreading mission focus among multiple satellites – this deters attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Forrest E., Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation, 2010, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a multifaceted, punishment-based… attack on U.S. space assets</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Independently, ORS is key to prevent a US first strike of China</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Institute for International Peace, 2007 “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Second, the successful Chinese… complications of accidents and misperception.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even rogue states will our attack our satellites</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smith 11</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (M.V., USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force and Cyber Center at Air University, former Chief of the Future Concepts shop at the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office, “Towards a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays”, February 2011, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span class="underline0" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute… </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">doubt in the minds of commanders.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space assets and responsiveness key to heg and warfighting capabilities</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Kevin, commanding general, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces Strategic Command, May 2010, “The Warfighter's Perspective on Space Support,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eight plus years of persistent conflict</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">… systems to meet our warfighting requirements</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US leadership prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – it’s comparatively best</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert 7, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United States</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">… provide an easier path.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hardening is key to prevent satellite damage and ensures survival of space assets</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> — Major, IDE Student (H. Mekesha, March, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The US’s increasing economic… older</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, yet space-qualified, products. 34</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Arms Control</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The status quo treaty regime will fail because of a lack of verification</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Lt Col Brendan Lewis, USAFR, “ALIGNING UNITED STATES AND CHINESE SPACE POLICIES”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_76c369ab-855b-4cb2-ab6c-e5f5a44c443a/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">First</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, the U.S. needs to determine… tools that could effectively do the job. 302</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This means that China will circumvent the current treaty regime</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Trevor Brown, BA from Indiana University in international studies, author focused on political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space, 3/1/09, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air & Space Power Journal, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html)
Despite China’s repeated calls… while expanding hard power.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A ban is possible but only with transparency and verification – those deter and prevent cheating</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baines 6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Phillip, Verification Research Officer, Department of Foreign Affairs & International Trade, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs, 2006, “ADEQUATE VERIFICATION:THE KEYSTONE OF A SPACE-BASED WEAPON BAN”, [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2461.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In addition, it is also possible to portray… air and sea assets in addition to space systems,</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Effective treaties are key to prevent miscalculation and first strike incentive</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Perhaps of even greater concern… alternative</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Space wars occur through miscalculation and cause extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell et al 1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A buildup of space weapons might… destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current SSA fails - doesn't do anything</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">GAO 11 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Despite recent investments… significant increases in capability.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SSA is key to transparency and verification measures</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raymond and Neuman 11</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (John, BS, Administrative Management, Clemson University; MS, Administrative Management, Central Michigan University; MA, National Security and Strategic Studies, Naval War College, and Kurt, Senior Strategy and Policy Analyst at the Headquarters Air Force Space Command, former Air Force officer, BS, University of Minnesota; MBA, University of New Mexico, Feb. 2011, “Preserving the Space Domain for Future Generations”, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)%0b*AFSPC|http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)%0b*AFSPC|*AFSPC]] = Air Force Space Command</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A key aspect of preventing mishaps… domain for many generations to come.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maneuverable satellites save billions and are hard to track</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Co and Black 6/1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Captain Thomas C. Co is a PhD student at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Dr. Jonathan T. Black is an assistant professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at AFIT, “A Taskable Space Vehicle Realizing Cost Savings by Combining Orbital and Suborbital Flight”, Air and Space Power Journal, June 1st 2011,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Complementing the ORS design… envelope and increase operational flexibility.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan increases maneuverability and expands mission efficiency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Co and Black 6/1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Captain Thomas C. Co is a PhD student at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Dr. Jonathan T. Black is an assistant professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at AFIT, “A Taskable Space Vehicle Realizing Cost Savings by Combining Orbital and Suborbital Flight”, Air and Space Power Journal, June 1st 2011,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> A small orbital change can affect… advertised mission cost significantly.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Security</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Perm - do the plan and all non-mutually exclusive parts of the alternative - realism is flexible enough to allow for desecuritization - it’s the only way to solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Murray 97 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Alastair J.H., Professor of Politics at the University of Wales, Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 193-6)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> For realism man ... first be ensured.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span class="TagChar">Alt can’t solve – it exists only in a vacuum</span></span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Huysmans 2 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jef, Lecturer in Politics in the Department of Government at Open University, 2002 “Defining Social Constructivism in Security Studies: The Normative Dilemma of Writing Security," Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 27, Issue 1, February (Supplemental Issue), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Elite, p. 50-51)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Although the critical edge ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> not be left in a vacuum</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Realism inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Mearsheimer 95</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(John, Professor of Pol. Sci. at the University of Chicago, International Security, Summer)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> For critical theorists, the ... is a hopeless cause</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The K creates a spectatorial left</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rorty 98</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, professor of philosophy at Stanford University, Achieving Our Country)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> I said earlier that ... ongoing historical process.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turns the K</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rorty 98</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard, professor of philosophy at Stanford University, Achieving Our Country) ***we do not endorse the language of this card***</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At that point, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">something will ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and Whitman might be achieved.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Predictions are good – the alternative is reliance on faulty preconceptions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fitzsimmons 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">But handling even this ... the decision-makers themselves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debates about threats are key to better policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Walt 91</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago, [Stephen Walt, Professor of Political Science, University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly, p. 229-30])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A recurring theme of ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> additional avenue of influence.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantages</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Long-Range Bomber</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: left;">**Next gen bomber now but money’s tight**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dimascio 11/2</span> (Jennifer staff writer aviation weekly. [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/awx/2011/11/02/awx_11_02_2011_p0-389493.xml&headline=Air%20Force%20Looks%20to%20Contain%20Bomber%20Costs]])
To save money in <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">…</span> this game,” Schwartz said.
**ORS puts a strain on the Air Force budget and leads to aircraft cancellation-turns case**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 6</span> (Lt. Col Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force? USAFR. http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html)
The political environment in … by aircraft-recapitalization needs.
**Key to nuclear deterrence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFA 9</span> (May 4 – last modified date, “The Next Generation Bomber”, [[http://www.afa.org/grl/pdfs/NGB.pdf]])
The N<span class="UnderlineChar">ext </span>G<span class="UnderlineChar">eneration </span>B<span class="UnderlineChar">omber …</span> strongly supports this goal<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
**Nuclear deterrence solves three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams ‘10</span> (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010, http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf)
The Case for Continuity … to defending South Korea.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Multilateralism</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A. Obama’s NSP ensures multilateral cooperation in space now – creates a framework against weaponization**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huntley 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Wade, senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details.</span>
**B. <<Insert link>>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**C. The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the Obama NSP**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dant 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)
Cooperation for contested and … of responsible space-faring nations.</span>
**D. Multilateral cooperation against weaponization prevents miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even greater …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> would be unacceptable to all.</span>
**E. Space wars occur through miscalculation and cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell et al 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">A buildup of </span>space weapons<span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span> military conflict ever seen.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Links</span>=== 
====ORS==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**ORS is perceived negatively—sparks arms race**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burzykowska 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anna, works for the International Institute of Air and Space Law, Leiden University, “Smaller states and the new balance of power in space” 7/8/09, http://ipac.kacst.edu.sa/eDoc/2010/190488_1.pdf)
A problem arises at … stations, missile defence, etc.)</span></span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Super Committee</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Supercommittee will succeed - party leader push</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gould 10/27</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Martin, reporter for Newsmax “Budget Supercommittee Facing Do-or-Die Week to Solve Crisis” Newsmax.com [[http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/boehner-hensarling-budget-crisis/2011/10/27/id/416000]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gingrich has been proved right ... about an overhaul of the tax code.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><<insert link>></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New spending makes agreement impossible—Medicare and JSC letter prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy and Harder 10/11</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Meghan, Staff Writer, Health Policy, covers health policy throughout Washington for National Journal, worked at Congressional Quarterly, where she covered the House of Representatives and contributed to CQ Healthbeat; and Amy, Energy and Environment Correspondent, reports on energy and the environment for National Journal and moderates an expert blog on the topic as well, was a staff writer for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, “Energy and Commerce Dems Go Left on Super Committee Recommendations” Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Many of the recommendations will ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> placed a price on climate-change pollution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Failure to reach a super committee agreement tanks military effectiveness, national security, and collapses the industrial base</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rayburn 10/6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Major General Bentley, Retired, “GUEST COLUMN: Defense cuts would undermine national security”, October 6th, 2011, http://www.gazette.com/opinion/debt-126319-undermine-defense.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The approaching debt ceiling recommendations ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> security needs</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, it’s dangerous.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">World War III</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Carafano 10/6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (James Jay, director of the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, “Will Our Military Soon Be Unable to Prevent World War III?”, October 6, 2011, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/10/06/will-our-military-soon-be-unable-to-prevent-world-war-iii/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Has HASC—the House Armed Services ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> protected by a “sequestered” military</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Overview</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Super Committee key to stop military cuts which destroy the defense industry and budget destroying jobs</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 9/9 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(“U.S. faces tough choices on defense budget,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/09/us-aero-arms-summit-budget-idUSTRE7885VZ20110909?feedType=RSS&feedName=domesticNews)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under the debt-reduction agreement</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> ... of an automatic budget reduction."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That immediately collapses the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 9 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Robert, 2/3/09, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “No Time To Cut Defense,”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> It doesn't make fiscal sense to ... </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">immediate impact on the economy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> If current market turmoil ... may still have to fight.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Internal Link Wall</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New spending ensures committee failure -</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Lobbying, lack of focus, and the toughness of reduction requirements</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Major 10/6</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Garrett, Congressional correspondent and reporter for National Journal, was the senior White House correspondent for the Fox News, “What If the Super Committee Succeeds?” Proquest)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">Partly driving the lobbyist mania ... reduction will be tough enough<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**B. Rising Medicare costs**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kendall 10/12</span> (David, senior fellow for health and fiscal policy at Third Way, a think tank that creates and advances moderate policy and political ideas, “Health Care: Super Power For The Super Committee” http://www.kaiserhealthnews.org/Stories/2011/October/12/different-takes-david-kendall.aspx)
<span class="UnderlineChar">To succeed, the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> so-called </span>'super ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here are some examples:</span>
**C. Spending’s controversial for the overburdened committee**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shiner and Stanton 10/11</span> (Meredith, staff writer for Roll Call, was a Congressional and national politics reporter for Politico, and John, Roll Call staff writer, “Turf Wars Brewing Over Deficit Panel” http://www.rollcall.com/issues/57_39/Turf_Wars_Brewing_Over_Deficit_Panel-209320-1.html?pos=hbtxt)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">not every policymaker believes ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> but there has to be an outcome</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

</span>
=Counterplans= 
==Community PIC== 
===1NC shell=== 
CP text changes every round, obviously dependent on the aff - I'm too lazy to pull out my flows and find the previous CP texts. We replace the words "debate community" with "city-space of debate".

The ideal of community creates scapegoating and exclusion based on race, sex and class. Even radical reappropriation fails in this context – it’s best to ditch the concept altogether
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 90</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (IRIS MARION, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have argued that </span>the ideal …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and individual differences within the group. </span>

The concept of community connects to the worst genocides of the 20th century
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pavlich 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Restorative justice and civil society By Heather Strang, John Braithwaite UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, Professor of Law and Sociology PhD (Sociology) 1992 University of British Columbia)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>the quest for a clearly …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> positive, set of events. </span>

Community actively attempts to impose homogeneity. We should instead work within a frame of urban acceptance of difference – the alternative solves the aff better
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 90</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (IRIS MARION, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy)</span>

Many<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> philosophers and political theorists </span>criticize … together in the citv without forming a communitv.

The critique of community captures all its benefits much better than their fixed conception. We can have collective solidarity, but only by attacking the exclusions inherent in community conceptions.

Thus, the reject alternative solves better even if we kick the counterplan
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pavlich 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Restorative justice and civil society By Heather Strang, John Braithwaite UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, Professor of Law and Sociology PhD (Sociology) 1992 University of British Columbia)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>dissociating strategies do not clear … continuous quest to open its limits up to future possibilities.

===2NC Solvency=== 
Our CP solves much better – we can agree with all your critiques without embracing any notion of community
Young 90
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IRIS MARION YOUNG, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Benjamin </span>Barber <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1984) also </span>uses <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> be made without embracing community as a political ideal<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===AT: Community Good=== 
The word COMMUNITY IS INTRINSICALLY VACUOUS – IT’S AN ENTIRELY COOPTED TERM, takes out their offense
POOLE 5
**Steven Poole**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (born in 1972) is a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom|British]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Author|author]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journalist|journalist]]. Poole studied English at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and has subsequently written for publications including The Independent, The Guardian, The Times Literary Supplement, The Sunday Times, and the New Statesman. He has published two books and currently writes a weekly nonfiction book-review column in the Saturday Guardian called Et Cetera, as well as regular longer book reviews, plus a monthly column in Edge magazine.[1] Poole was invited to deliver the opening keynote address at the 2006 Sydney Writers' Festival,[2] and also gave a keynote at the 2008 Future and Reality of Gaming conference in Vienna.[3] Unspeak was published in 2006 by Little, Brown in the UK, and by Grove Press in the US. The second UK edition (2007) has the subtitle "Words Are Weapons". It is a book about language in contemporary politics, structured around buzzphrases such as "community", "climate change", and "war on terror". The book was shortlisted for Index on Censorship's T.R. Fyvel Award in 2006.[8] According to the author, "unspeak" is related to framing: it is a rhetorical way of naming an issue so as to avoid having to argue one's position, and to render the opposing position inexpressible.</span>

'Community' is among the most …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> though unfortunately they were not. </span>

It’s a rhetorical problem – use of the word itself risks cooption, homogenization and exclusion. it’s a linguistic colony because it’s so catchy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sarler 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (11/20, [[http://observer.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,6903,1646706,00.html]] Carol Sarler has written articles published in The Independent, MailOnline, The Times and The Observer. Carol Sarler is a freelance writer and broadcaster)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not an eyebrow was raised when a recent …</span> and which might not, even, exist.

Use of the word community justifies OPPRESSIVE policy AND DESTROYS RESISTANCE THROUGH EUPHEMISMS
POOLE 5
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven Poole (born in 1972) is a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom|British]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Author|author]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journalist|journalist]]. Poole studied English at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and has subsequently written for publications including The Independent, The Guardian, The Times Literary Supplement, The Sunday Times, and the New Statesman. He has published two books and currently writes a weekly nonfiction book-review column in the Saturday Guardian called Et Cetera, as well as regular longer book reviews, plus a monthly column in Edge magazine.[1] Poole was invited to deliver the opening keynote address at the 2006 Sydney Writers' Festival,[2] and also gave a keynote at the 2008 Future and Reality of Gaming conference in Vienna.[3] Unspeak was published in 2006 by Little, Brown in the UK, and by Grove Press in the US. The second UK edition (2007) has the subtitle "Words Are Weapons". It is a book about language in contemporary politics, structured around buzzphrases such as "community", "climate change", and "war on terror". The book was shortlisted for Index on Censorship's T.R. Fyvel Award in 2006.[8] According to the author, "unspeak" is related to framing: it is a rhetorical way of naming an issue so as to avoid having to argue one's position, and to render the opposing position inexpressible.</span>

The surreptitious importing of …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the Police Reform Act,77 so they must be a good thing.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AT: City-Space Bad</span>=== 

A utopian ideal of the city solves the problems with the concept of community while also overcoming the homogenizing tendencies of liberalism

Young 90

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IRIS MARION YOUNG, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy.</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I propose to </span>construct a normative ideal of …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> activity affects the conditions of one's own.</span>



The idea of city life is better than community – it accepts difference without trying to homogenize it

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frug 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Geography of Community Author(s): Jerry Frug Source: Stanford Law Review, Vol. 48, No. 5 (May, 1996), pp. 1047-1108 Published by: Stanford Law Review Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1229380]] Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law, Harvard University)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By "</span>city life<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" I mean a form of social relations … rather than on "the being to- gether of strangers."</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Biopower Net Benefit</span>=== 

Ideals of community are formulas for the elimination of difference through the immediate transparency of biopolitical fantasy

Young 90

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IRIS MARION YOUNG, JUSTICE AND THE POLITICS OF DIFFERENCE 237-38 (1990). Iris Marion Young (2 January 1949 - 1 August 2006) was Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies [1] and the Human Rights program there. Her research covered contemporary political theory, feminist social theory, and normative analysis of public policy.</span>

The ideal of community<span style="font-size: 8pt;">... </span>expresses an urge to unity,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the …</span> of a self-enclosed whole.



That’s the WORST possible formula for politics – the modalities of biopower allow for the worst forms of war and racism

MENDIETA 2

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]] ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, SUNY STONYBROOK Ph.D. 1996, New School for Social Research Areas of Specialization Global ethics, discourse ethics, critical theory (in particular Karl-Otto Apel and Jürgen Habermas), theories of modernity, postmodernity, postcolonialism, and Latin American philosophy.</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is where </span>racism intervenes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not .. and foes are biological in nature.</span>

That causes genocidal massacres and violence which threaten extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault 78 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel, former professor of philosophy at the College de France, “The History of Sexuality: An Introduction”, Volume 1, 136-137)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There has been a parallel shift in the ...</span> the large-scale phenomena of population<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==ESA CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**Text: The European Space Agency should substantially increase its Space Situational Awareness capabilities, including capabilities aimed at detecting solar flares.**

**The ESA alone can solve without nasa’s help**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris</span>, 7-22-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span> (Stephen, senior reporter for The Engineer, ESA radar will track space debris, The Engineer, [[http://www.theengineer.co.uk/esa-radar-will-track-space-debris/1003961.article]])

The<span class="DebateUnderline"> European Space Agency ...</span> could potentially impact the planet.

==Threaten CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**The United States federal government should**
**-- implement a national space deterrence strategy that explicitly condemns the use of force in space and declares the United States will severely punish any attacks on its space systems**
**-- embrace diplomatic engagement and treaty negotiations for states that develop and test weapons for attacking satellites**

**Solves the case – prevents a space attack from occuring**
Morgan 10<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – defense policy researcher @ RAND, 27 years in the Air Force (Forrest E., 2010, "Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space," http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>

__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__can ...__ __response to attacks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (See pp. 45–48.)</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC Solvency</span>=== 

**CP solves comparatively better than the case**

**Morgan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – defense policy researcher @ RAND, 27 years in the Air Force (Forrest E., 2010, "Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space," http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>__national space policy__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… where U.S. thresholds lie. </span>



**Even if the norms by themselves don't work, the CP's hard-line approach reduces hostility and solves space control**

**Morgan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – defense policy researcher @ RAND, 27 years in the Air Force (Forrest E., 2010, "Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space," http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Important as they are, </span>__norms …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to a wider war. 10</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AT: Perm</span>=== 

**CP reinforces existing norms that solve an attack – plan derails that**

**Morgan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – defense policy researcher @ RAND, 27 years in the Air Force (Forrest E., 2010, "Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space," http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, RG)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The foundation and </span>__central ...__ __**for their preemptive employment.**__

==XO CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order mandating that .**
**Observation 1: Competition**
**A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam Webster’s No Date</span> (Merriam-Webster's Online Collegiate Dictionary, No Date, [[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary]])

used as a function word ... as a whole <the elite>
**B. Resolutional: Resolved means legislative action**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LHR 5</span> (Louisiana House of Representatives, http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)

Resolution A legislative instrument<span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span> and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)

**Observation 2: Solvency**
**Counterplan uses the ESF - doesn’t link to spending**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">G</span>eneral <span style="font-size: 12pt;">A</span>ccounting <span style="font-size: 12pt;">O</span>ffice Reports & Testimony August 1, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4</span>

During this period ... to the debt ceiling.
**XOs are fast, avoid politics, and are hard to overturn**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 02</span> (Phillip J., Professor of Liberal Arts @ University of Vermont, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action)

Executive orders are often ... for orders generated elsewhere.

**Observation 2: Net Benefit**
**1. Now is the key time for prez powers – Obama and the senate are battling over space jurisdiction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whittington 5/8</span> (Mark Whittington, author of The Last Moonwalker, Children of Apollo and Nocturne. He has written numerous articles, some for the Washington Post, USA Today, the LA Times, and the Houston Chronicle, 5/8/11 “White House and Congress Clash Over NASA Funding, Space Cooperation with China” [[http://news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110508/pl_ac/8438927_white_house_and_congress_clash_over_nasa_funding_space_cooperation_with_china]])

Th<span class="UnderlineChar">e distrust Congress holds ...</span> on the part of the president.

**2. <span class="TagChar">Unilateral executive action expands presidential power and sets a precedent – each order is key. The counterplan fiats uniqueness to the link</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1</span> (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)

Much of the ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> meaning of the Constitution.”</span>
**3. Strong presidential power key to stop trade wars**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 2K</span> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy, Council on Foreign Relations, 11/19)

__A serious crisis ...__ not impossible to get.

**Trade wars escalate to global nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Copley News Service 99</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(December 1)</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">For decades, many children</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">should be celebrating it.</span>__


=Kritiks= 
==Nietzsche== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**Suffering is inevitable, but the aff is an attempt to mask said inevitability**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kain 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Philip J., professor of philosophy at Santa Clara University, 2007, “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33, pgs. 49-63)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the center of Nietzsche's vision ...</span><span style="background-color: aqua;"> suffering; we can only seek to mask it</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The aff's imagining of a better world creates ressentiment for the real world**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turanli 3</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aydan, Professor at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at Istanbul Technical University, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, I. 26 p. 61-62, Project MUSE)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The craving for absolutely general specifications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... of the fly-bottle” (PI §309).</span>

**Vote neg to affirm life - rather than submit to the aff’s constant attempts to roll the dice of life to get a “winning” outcome and control life resentfully, we must roll the dice only once and embrace the result**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze 83</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, professor at the University of Lyon, “Nietzsche and Philosophy,” Continuum International Publishing Group, published 2006, Google Books, p. 23-26)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The game has two moments which ... of the fatally obtained number</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===AT: Framework=== 
**Framework is a totalitarian example of the Will to Order – the utopian creation of Ideal Worlds undermines actions in the political sphere and forces upon the community mastery and control**
<span class="CiteChar">Saurette 96</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, professor of political science at the University of Ottawa, “'I Mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them': Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory”, Millennium - Journal of International Studies March 1996 25: 1-28)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arendt contends that </span><span style="background-color: aqua;">this rule-based ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> neither factual nor beyond critique</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Their quest for education fails because they try to __establish__ knowledge – denies the true beauty of the struggle**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thiels 90</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leslie P., “The Agony of Politics: The Nietzschean Roots of Foucault’s Thought”, September 1990, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3, p. 907-925)</span>

<span style="background-color: aqua;">The quest for knowledge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, wrote ... struggle between competing perspectives.</span>

**Unfairness is inevitable, but dreaming of a different world negates positive value to life**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 87 </span>(Friedrich, badass, “Thus Spake Zarathustra,” 1887, online at project gutenburg, “The Tarantulas”)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Thus do I speak unto you ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Superman, if I spake otherwise?</span>

==Psychoanalysis== 
===**1NC Shell**=== 
**A. The aff’s conflict scenarios are produced by paranoia and project violent impulses onto the enemy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mack 88</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John E., Doctor of Psychiatry, Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard University, “The Enemy System (short version)”, John E. Mack institute, Originally published in the Lancet, August 13th, 1988, [[http://johnemackinstitute.org/1988/08/the-enemy-system-short-version/]], we don’t endorse the card’s gendered discourse)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The threat of nuclear annihilation has stimulated ... the leadership, contribute powerfully to the process.</span>

**B. This is because the 1AC’s utopian fantasy fails - their "threats" are merely innocent scapegoats**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, professor at the University of Essex, Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, MA and PhD from the “Ideology and Discourse Analysis” program at the University of Essex, author and coeditor of many books and journals, department of government at the University of Essex, “Lacan and the Political”, p. 99-105)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">What I will try to do</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this chapter ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> without suffering or sin.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cohn, 1993c:14-15)</span>

**C. Paranoid security projections guarantee extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hollander 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nancy C., professor of Latin American history and women’s studies at California State University, "A Psychoanalytic Perspective on the Politics of Terror: In the Aftermath of 9/11”, [[http://egp.dreamhosters.com/encontros/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf%20/|http://egp.dreamhosters.com/encontros/mundial_rj/download/FLeitor_NHollander_ingl.pdf]])</span>

In this sense, then, <span class="UnderlineChar">9-11 has symbolically ... only increases reliance on projective mechanisms and stimulates paranoia.</span>

**D. The alt is to vote negative to interrogate the aff’s psychological enemy creation. Only that discards our fears and helps us embrace the Other**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byles 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joanna, Professor of English at the University of Cyprus, “Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification”, Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society, Vol. 8, No. 2, Fall 2003, Project MUSE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is here of course that </span>language plays an ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> most importantly, a way of thinking.</span>

===<span class="UnderlineChar">AT: Framework</span>=== 
**The role of the judge should be an analyst – interrogating the aff’s psychological paranoia comes first. It’s not about what the neg does, it’s about what the aff needs to do better.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Žižek 2K</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the University of Ljubljana, “Contingency, Hegemony, Universality”, p. 124-127)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now I can also answer the obvious counter-argument ...</span> traversing the fantasy towards the Real.

**<span class="UnderlineChar">Assuming the role of legislator disengages us from real politics</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kappeler 95</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susanne, former lecturer in English at the University of East Anglia, former Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Al Akhawayn University, “The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour”, 1995, pgs. 10-11)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">We are the war' does not mean that ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> choice and therefore </span><span class="UnderlineChar">subject to human control</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span class="UnderlineChar">AT: Perm</span>=== 
**Inclusion of the plan destroys solvency - this evidence is on fire**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, professor at the University of Essex, Associate Professor at the School of Political Sciences of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, MA and PhD from the “Ideology and Discourse Analysis” program at the University of Essex, author and coeditor of many books and journals, department of government at the University of Essex, “Lacan and the Political”, p. 116-119)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The main point here is that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">society and history ... quasi-utopian sedimentations of political reality.</span>

**Complete rejection is key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)</span>

The only way out of such a dilemma ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> to be brave enough to return the gift."'</span>

==Security== 
===**1NC Shell**=== 
**<<insert links>>**

**Insecurity’s inevitable, but the drive for security culminates in endless violence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 95</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts, “On Security”, edited by Ronnie Lipschutz, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, Columbia University Press, 1995)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">No other concept in international relations ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for a permanently electioneering elite.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Security discourse makes war inevitable – we are forced into a system where uncertainty demands violent action**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lipschutz 98</span> (Ronnie D, Professor, Department of Politics @ The UC Santa Cruz, "8. Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End," Cioanet,http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz18.html)

__For the state policymaker__**__,__** __the ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that posited by geopolitics and realists.</span>

**The alt is to vote negative – critique the aff's discourse ensures attention is paid to challenging these discursive process**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman 96</span> (Graeme, Senior Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which ... not to understand them, and why?</span>

===**AT: Framework**=== 
**Theoretical examinations result in better policies**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Widmaier 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Wesley W, Fall, Department of Political Science, St. Joseph’s University. “Theory as a Factor and the Theorist as an Actor: The ‘‘Pragmatist Constructivist’’ Lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith,” International Studies Review 6.3, Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It took the </span>constructivist turn in ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at engaging the public and advancing.</span>

**<span class="UnderlineChar">Assuming the role of legislator disengages us from real politics</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kappeler 95</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Susanne, former lecturer in English at the University of East Anglia, former Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Al Akhawayn University, “The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour”, 1995, pgs. 10-11)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">We are the war' does not mean that ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> choice and therefore </span><span class="UnderlineChar">subject to human control</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===**AT: Perm**=== 
**Perm hijacks alt solvency**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Associate Professor – University of Queensland, The Zen of International Relations, “Forget IR Theory,” p. 37-9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stories, so we are told by prevailing social ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> violence-prone practice of world politics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Perm covers up flawed ontology – dooms actions to replicate violence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anthony, Lecturer in IR @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I was motivated to begin the larger ... however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.</span>

===**Links**=== 
====**Accidental War**==== 
**Accidental war doesn’t happen – we ignore the reasoning behind the conflict is the belief that it’s better to strike pre-emptively**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Blight </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">86</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> (James, “political psychology” vol. 7 no. 4 december 1986 pp. 617-660</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">We noted in Table I that most foreign ... to go to major nuclear war?</span>

====**China**==== 
**The neo-realist discourse of the aff assigned China the role of the other – their authors are paranoid and judgemental**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pan 4</span> (Chengxin, Department of Political Science and International Relations at the Australian National University, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 29, Issue 3, June/July, Available Online via Academic Search Premier, p. 305-306)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having examined how the …</span>is <span class="UnderlineChar">perhaps </span>not surprising.

====**Environment**==== 
**Environmental catastrophe impacts alienate and write a blank check for totalitarianism – turning away from such rhetoric is key**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davidson 2K</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BioScience 50(5):433-440. 2000 Economic Growth and the Environment: Alternatives to the Limits Paradigm CARLOS DAVIDSON Carlos Davidson is a conservation biologist with a background in economics. He is currently studying landscape-scale patterns of amphibian decline in California in the Section of Evolution and Ecology, University of California, Davis</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Is the limits metaphor a politically ... arrangements and might support change?</span>


====**Hegemony**==== 

**Welcome to hypermilitarism – “Solving hegemony” is just a paranoid grab for total security that leads to future militaristic interventions**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rule 10</span> (James B, PhD Harvard, MA Oxford, BA Brandeis, “The Military State of America and the Democratic Left”, Dissent Vol. 57 No 1, Winter)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The invasion of </span>Iraq was<span class="UnderlineChar"> ... upon its own domestic life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


=<span style="font-size: 19px;">Topicality</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 16px;">T-Development</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC Shell</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">**Develop means to bring to a more advanced or effective state**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Dictionary.com 11**__ (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/develop]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">develop</span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 12px;"> verb (used with object)</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> 1. to bring out the ... or expand in detail: to develop a theory.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 16px;">T-Substantial</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC DSCOVR</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Alexander, 8**__ (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from [[http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush signed ... provide the agency with spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**B. Violation – the plan costs 47 million dollars**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Brinton 11**__ (Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12px;">The U.S. House Appropriations Committee will vote on a 2012 ...</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> appropriated for the program in 2011 but $168.6 million less than the request.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC Generic Shell</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12px;">A. Interpretation - Substantially should be defined by context</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Devinsky 2**__ (Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">In reversing a summary judgment of invalidity, </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 12px;">the U.S. Court of ...</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> persons experienced in this field of mechanics, upon reading the patent documents."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**B. A substantial increase is at least 10.9 billion dollars**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**AAAS 02**__ (American Association for the Advancement of Science, “House Boosts NASA Request, Adds Earmarks and Outer Planets Missions,” October 16, 2002 from [[http://www.aaas.org/spp/rd/nasa03h.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">On October 9, already nine days into fiscal year (FY) 2003, the House Appropriations ... funding levels under a series of continuing resolutions (temporary appropriations bills).</span>

==<span style="font-size: 16px;">ASPEC</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC DSCOVR</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12px;">Guts education about the topic</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Livingston '1**__ – adjunct professor at the University of North Dakota Graduate School of Space Studies; Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) also at Golden Gate University (Dr.David, 2001, "Barriers to Space Enterprise," http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/barriers_to_space_enterprise.shtml, RG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">__Relationships within government organizations and agencies__, such ... __DOD, NASA, and the other agencies for they only cooperate superficially.__</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**Agency key for DSCOVR**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__**Donahue 11**__ (Bill Donahue, written in Popular Science,4/6/11 “Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?” [[http://pul.se/Who-Killed-The-Deep-Space-Climate-Observatory_Science-Feature-dDIj1tPS8WS,jcaFkeLDIocE]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Today, </span><span class="UnderlineChar" style="font-size: 12px;">NASA officials aren't eager to talk ...</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> publicist there advised me write to NASA.</span>


=2NRs= 
==Bronx== 
---I was with a sophomore, not Greg, but I'll post 2NRs regardless
===R1 - Edgemont BK - TSATs=== 
1NC: T-Development, T-Substantial, IPv6 CP, Psychoanalysis K, Super Committee DA, Case
2NC: Psychoanalysis K, Case
1NR: T-Development, Super Committee DA
2NR: Psychoanalysis K + Case

===R3 - American History BW - Heidegger=== 
1NC: Framework, Super Committee DA, Util Good, Case
2NC: Super Committee DA, Util Good, Case
1NR: Framework
2NR: Super Committee DA (with a Framework link) + Util Good + Case

===R6 - Beacon GY - Afrofuturism=== 
1NC: Framework, T-Resolution Good, Community PIC, Capitalism K, Case Turns
2NC: Community PIC, Case Turns
1NR: T-Resolution Good
2NR: Community PIC

===Dubs - Mt. Hebron DW - DSCOVR=== 
1NC: Security K, Super Committee DA, War DA, GCR CP, Case
2NC: War DA, Case
1NR: Super Committee DA
2NR: War DA + Case
==Capitol== 
===R1 - Atholton BZ - DSCOVR=== 
1NC: T-Substantial, ASPEC, Security K, ESA CP, Super Committee DA, Case
2NC: ASPEC, Security K, Case
1NR: Super Committee DA, Case
2NR: Super Committee DA + Case

===R3 - Thomas Johnson GH - DSCOVR=== 
1NC: T-Substantial, ASPEC, Nietzsche K, XO CP, Super Committee DA, Case
2NC: Super Committee DA, Case
1NR: XO CP, Case
2NR: Super Committee DA + Case

===R5 - Centennial MK - DSCOVR=== 
1NC: T-Substantial, ASPEC, Nietzsche K, XO CP, Super Committee DA, Case
2NC: Nietzsche K, Case
1NR: Super Committee DA, Case
2NR: Nietzsche K + Case

==Ridge== 
===R1 - NFA SS - DSCOVR=== 
1NC: T-Substantial, Nietzsche K, XO CP, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case
2NC: Nietzsche K, Case
1NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, XO CP, Case
2NR: Nietzsche K + Case

===R3 - Bronx Science LD - ORS=== 
1NC: Security K, Threaten CP, Long Range Bomber DA, Weaponization DA, Case
2NC: Threaten CP, Case
1NR: Long Range Bomber DA
2NR: Threaten CP + Long Range Bomber DA + Case