[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===**Rawls AC**=== 
Justice is impartial.

Defend animals generally.

Drop ground and re-evaluate my arguments if I lose T.

We must construct principles of justice via the veil of ignorance. Rawls:
“This original positions…that is fair.

Bias makes us terrible predictors. Faust:
Dawes, R. M., Faust, D., & Meehl, P. E. (1989). Clinical versus actuarial judgment. Science, 243, 1668-1674.
“So, it seems…they actually are.”

Burden: prove we recognize animal rights in veil.

1-People agree justice shouldn’t be arbitrary. Rawls2. Ibid.
“We disagree about….that he accepts”

Animals are considered in veil determinations. Hilden.
A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Animal, By Julie Hilden<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.juliehilden.com/animal_rights.html#star|*]]</span>

This article originally appeared in the Animal Law Review - <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.juliehilden.com/animal_rights.html]]</span>
“It is unnecessary….in that position.”

2-Animals have a conception of Justice. Shapiro.
Paul Shapiro. Moral Agency in Other Animals - http://www.springerlink.com/content/d110w131h6m86347/
“Most people who…him to zookeepers

Animals express positive moral obligations. Shapiro 2. Ibid.
“Perhaps reciprocally altruistic…less favorable times.”

3-Humans avoid pain as an animal. Carruthers.
**Animal Mentality: Its Character, Extent, and Moral Significance; //Handbook on Ethics and Animals//**. OUP, 2011**;** a member of the organizing committee for the University of Maryland Cognitive Science Colloquium, at the University of Sheffield (UK) I founded and directed the //Hang Seng Centre for Cognitive Studies.// Trained as a Wittgensteinian (at the University of Leeds), got my DPhil from Oxford (working with Michael Dummett),. [[http://www.philosophy.umd.edu/Faculty/pcarruthers/]]
“Many animals experience… in the other.

4-Distinctions b/w humans and animals are morally irrelevant. Hilden2. Ibid.
“Rawls’ emphasizes that…fertile humans do.”

Rationality not relevant. Abbey.
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">Rawlsian Resources for Animal Ethics1</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">Abbey, Ruth, 1961-. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007, pp. 1-22 (Article). Published by Indiana University Press</span>

5-Any factor neg raises excludes human infants. Singer.
Peter. Ira W. DeCamp Professor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bioethics|Bioethics]]</span> at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_University|Princeton University]]</span> and Laureate Professor at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre_for_Applied_Philosophy_and_Public_Ethics|Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics]]</span> at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Melbourne|University of Melbourne]]</span>. “All Animals Are Equal.” //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//, New Jersey, **__1989__**, pp. 148-162
“If the experimenter…for our experiments”.


UV: Loss of biodiversity causes extinction. Diner. [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, //"The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?,"// Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
“In a closely interconnected ecosystem…to the abyss.”

==Negative== 
===Kant Neg=== 
Only can have right claims if we have olgiation.
Burden: No obligation to animals

Natural beings exhibit a teleology. Ginsborg.
Ginsborg, Hannah, "Kant's Aesthetics and Teleology", //<span style="font-family: Cambria;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition)</span>//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2008/entries/kant-aesthetics/>.
“Organized beings must…damage to themselves.

Humans have teleology of natural agents.
1-Speech phrases feelings in terms of duty.
2-Structure of reason is beyond animality and utility. Deleuze.
Gilles Deleuze. **Kant's Critical Philosophy: The Doctrine of the Faculties. 1985. U of Minnesota. Pg 1-3.**
“If reason were…means and end”.

Construction of rights and obligations requires a framework of universal law.

Animals are not autonomous. Fox.
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman;">"Animal Liberation":A Critique*</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times-Roman;">Michael Fox Queen's University, Kingston,Ontario</span>**
“Now how can…of like beings.”


=November-December= 
My disclosure will be on Loyola Bob Overing's page. 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]