[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 21px;">[[media type="custom" key="12681990"]]Logistics</span>= 
**Affirmative Cites: Reuben Lack - [[mailto:reubenlack1@gmail.com|reubenlack1@gmail.com]]**
**Negative Cites: Anushka Panday - <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:anushkapanday@gmail.com|anushkapanday@gmail.com]]</span>**
**Coach: Adam Smiley - <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:asmiley27@gmail.com|asmiley27@gmail.com]]</span>**
**[[http://www.RaiderDebate.com/|http://www.RaiderDebate.com]]**
=Affirmative= 

==UGA== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Lunar Solar Power</span>=== 
====**Plan Text**==== 
**The United States federal government should construct a lunar solar power base on the Earth’s Moon.**

====**Advantage 1: Risk Calculus**==== 
**Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock**
**Austen, 11** [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]
Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. We know that … but there will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”

**Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.**
**Matheny 7** (Jason G. Matheny, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 2007, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)
As for astronomical risks, to escape our sun's death, humanity…fundamentally about the survival of the species."

**LSP key to colonization of moon and outer space**
**Bekey et al 2000**, Criswell, Friedman, Greenwood, Miller -- Professors of Aeronautics and Space Development @ USC, Univ. Houston, Univ. Oklahoma (<http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2000-FinalReport-AutonomousConstructionAndManufacturing.pdf>, " AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM", NASA and NSF Report)
Energy is fundamental to nearly everything that humans would like … to fabricate solar cells on location.

**Independently, Lunar Colonization solves extinction**
**Dinkin 4** [Sam, “Colonize the Moon before Mars” The Space Review. 2004. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/221/1]
It’s possible that colonizing the Moon … addition to our chances for immortality.

**LSP solve colonization solvency deficits – builds habitats 3 meters below surface**
**Criswell 1** (DR. DAVID R. CRISWELL, Director, Institute for Space Systems Operations, University of
Houston,“LUNAR SOLAR POWER SYSTEM: INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND
DEMONSTRATION” Final Report from the NSF-NASA Workshop on AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS at the World Energy Council. October 2001)
Column 3 of Table IV shows that over the 70 year life-cycle … support equipment maintenance and repair, logistics, remote operations/monitoring, and life support.

**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.**
**Bostrom 9** (Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)
Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. For any fixed probability, existential risks are thus more serious than other … certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13]

====**Advantage 2: Hegemony**==== 
=====**Scenario 1 - Space Race**===== 
**First, Japan is looking at LSP strategy**
**EcoBusiness 7/12** - Asia Business Magazine (“Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” 2011, http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/)
When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”

**Second, China is are pursuing U.S. lunar dominance – perception is key.**
**Vorenberg 08** - Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist
The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."

**And, the plan is key:**
**Japanese LSP would ensure resource exploitation and no colonization efforts**
**Shimizu Corp 11** (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” June 2011, <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)
A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.

**And, Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key**
**Spudis 10** – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf
In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.

**The race is already on – China is going for space dominance and the Moon now**
**Florcruz 3-8** [Jaime A. FlorCruz is CNN’s Beijing Bureau Chief and correspondent, responsible for strategic planning of the network’s news coverage of China. FlorCruz has studied, worked and travelled in China for more than 35 years, and reported extensively on the country as a journalist since 1980, when he started his journalistic career in China and worked as a reporter for Newsweek Magazine. In 1982, he joined TIME magazine’s Beijing bureau, and served as Beijing bureau chief from 1990 to 2000; “China rockets forward in race to moon”; 3/8/2012; http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/08/world/asia/florcruz-china-space/index.html; Sehgal Boyce]
Beijing (CNN) -- Watch out, America. China is steadily catching up … will position China just next to the U.S. as a dominant space power.

**And, Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts.**
**Kagan 7** Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have … under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.

**And, transition independently causes extinction**
**Brzezinski 12** (Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)
For if America falters, the world is unlikely … start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

=====**Scenario 2 - Science Leadership**===== 
**Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel**
**Ignatiev et al 1** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)
Energy is fundamental to nearly everything … electrical energy needed for the development of space.

**And science leadership is key to hegemony and soft power**
**Coletta 9** (Coletta, Professor of Poli Sci at the U.S. Air Force Academy, 9 – Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] recut from Woodward)
To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly … combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.

**And, Heg solves all conflicts**
**Zhang & Shi 11** (Zhang, researcher at Carnegie, and Shi, consultant for the World Bank, 11 ¬– both MA candidates at Columbia University [January 22, 2011, Yuhan Zhang and Lin Shi, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/] recut from Woodward)
Over the past two decades, no other state … we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**And, the pursuit of hegemony is inevitable—the only question is effectiveness.**
**Tellis 9** — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 54-55) recut from Woodward
This hegemony is by no means fated to … securing international support for its policies.

**And, maintaining a large power differential is key—innovation is the lynchpin of hegemony.**
**Tellis 9** — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 55-56) recut from Woodward
Second, and equally importantly, who wins in the ensuing struggle … would invariably contribute to the conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals.

**And science leadership makes hegemony sustainable and solves every global problem**
**Coletta 9** (Coletta, Professor of Poli Sci at the U.S. Air Force Academy, 9 – Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] recut from Woodward)
On the one hand, leaders of both political parties … loyalty of experts serving on the remote frontiers of science.

**LSP is feasible, cheap, and ideal**
**Criswell 98** (Criswell, David. 1998. Director, Institute for Space Systems Operations, University of Houston
“LUNAR SOLAR POWER SYSTEM FOR ENERGY PROSPERITY WITHIN THE 21ST CENTURY” <http://www.declarepeace.org.uk/captain/murder_inc/site/haarp_patents/LunarPowerProject1.pdf>)
To achieve low unit cost of energy, the lunar portions … key lunar components and production processes.

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Wilderness</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Plan Text**</span>==== 
**The United States federal government should create exclusion zones on the Moon covering Apollo landing sites through designating these zones as wilderness areas.**

====**Advantage 1: Forgetting the Myth**==== 
**Current space policy is bent towards colonization for the sake of resource exploitation and national dominance**
**Billings 9** (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 3
Today national policy promotes colonization, but with AND the meaning, and the value, of space exploration?

**This thinking of Outer Space is wrapped in ideas of American Imperialism – to know, control, and colonize ‘new worlds’**
**Young 87** (M. Jane, Professor of American Studies and Regents Lecturer, both at the University of New Mexico, “Parables of the Space Age-The Ideological Basis of Space Exploration,” Western Folklore, October of 1987,DA:6/25/11, CP)
The "mainstream" American view of outer space is a reflection AND they serve as social commentary and critique.

**Plan engages in a rethinking of our understanding of space – to protect rather than exploit**
**Billings 9** (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 5
One place where ethical considerations of protection and preservation intersect AND in a less invasive way than current frontier rhetoric does.

**We access the key internal link – a National Lunar Park would connect society to the ideal of protection and unified identity**
**Spennemann 7** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 906-907
Cultural Tourism. For heritage management, AND travel, can enjoy a participatory experience.

**We’ll isolate three impacts:**
**First – Historic ontology is the key internal link to questioning philosophical problems inherent in our space policy – only preserving history solves**
**Sugarman 9** (Jeff Sugarman, PhD in Psychology of Education & MA in Counseling Psychology, Professor of Education at Simon Fraser University, Fellow of the American Psychological Association and American Educational Research Association, past President of Division 24 of the American Psychological Association, and Associate Editor of the Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, 2009, 'Historical ontology and psychological description', Journal Of Theoretical And Philosophical Psychology, Vol. 29, Issue 1, pp. 5-15, PsycARTICLES, EBSCOhost)
A style of reasoning introduces criteria for making judgments AND can be identified, described, classified and, often, manipulated, measured, and put to practice.

**The globalization of the American ideal annihilates historical and ontological thinking – results in MORE violence and devastation.**
**Laing 10** – (Tristen, MA in Philosophy from York University, Ph.D. student, “Heidegger on Americanism and Democracy: in what way might the G20 exemplify our lack of a homeland?” http://northernsong.wordpress.com/2010/07/08/heidegger-on-americanism-and-democracy-in-what-way-might-the-g20-exemplify-our-lack-of-a-homeland/)
Devastation is not the physical breaking of people AND symptomatic of the deep devastation of Americanism.

**Second – the Cosmocentric Ethic – we have a Moral obligation to protect the environment of the Moon**
**IAA 10** (International Academy of Astronautics ‘Cosmic Study’ Group of IAA Commission V), “Protecting the Environment of Celestial Bodies”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%205/sg56/sg56finaldraftreport.pdf, p.27
The timeliness of initiating a profound professional discussion AND for a Martian land ethic and for a land ethic that extends to all other worlds.”

**A Cosmocentric ethic is the most moral framework – things have intrinsic value**
**Logsdon 97** (Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University) “Do We Need A Cosmocentric Ethic”, pg. 1
A cosmocentric ethic might be characterized AND indigenous primitive extraterrestrial life forms.

**Second – our aff serves as a questioning of the Frontier Myth – this is necessary to challenge constant cycles of violence and genocide**
**Slotkin 92** (Richard Slotkin a cultural critic and historian. He is the Olin Professor of English and American Studies at Wesleyan University in Middletown, CT, and in 2010 was elected a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences wrote award winning trilogy, Regeneration Through Violence, The Fatal Environment, and Gunfighter Nation , 1992, Gunfighter Nation, The Myth of the Frontier in 20th century America, pg 112-114 E169.12 .S57 1992, DA: 6/24/11, CP)
By the terms of the Frontier Myth, once imperial war was AND in extreme circumstances, in vilante attacks on labor organizers, like those on IWW agitators.

**Genocide comes first**
**Card 3** [Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, “Genocide and Social Death,” Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]
Genocide is not simply unjust AND lies in its infliction of not just physical death (when it does that) but social death, producing a consequent meaninglessness of one's life and even of its termination.

====**Advantage 2: Environmental Soft-Power**==== 
**Current trends are towards commercial space tourism – this threatens the lunar environment**
**Spennemann 4** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), “The ethics of treading on Neil Armstrong’s footprints”, Space Policy 20 (2004), pp. 279-290
In the decades since the last crewed mission to the Moon, AND are part of the heritage of all humanity.

**Plan spills over – creates a new narrative of space as something to protect**
**Billings 9** (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 8-9
Rhetorical critic Janice Hocker Rushing made the case AND potential for generating such a dialogue.

**Changing our thinking of the lunar environment spills over to a change in global consciousness – this promotes US environmental leadership**
**Daly 7,** “Separated at Birth, Signs of Rapprochement: Environmental Ethics and Space Exploration”, Ethics and the Environment, http://www.csid.unt.edu/files/env_ethics_and_space.pdf, pg. 2-3
Professional philosophers were slow to AND Arthur C. Clarke, and others.

**This model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction**
**Harris 1** (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)
In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a AND (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).

====**Solvency**==== 
**Plan solves preservation of the Moon – prefer our peer reviewed study**
**IAA 10** (International Academy of Astronautics ‘Cosmic Study’ Group of IAA Commission V), “Protecting the Environment of Celestial Bodies”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%205/sg56/sg56finaldraftreport.pdf, p.46
In lunar exploration, a further complication is what we call AND To preserve regions for future generations.

**A National Park for the Apollo sites is the legal and ethical responsibility of the United States**
**Spennemann 4** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), “The ethics of treading on Neil Armstrong’s footprints”, Space Policy 20 (2004), pp. 279-290
Heritage management on Earth is primarily the responsibility of AND taking a subsidiary role to Australia legislation.

**The Apollo site is uniquely important for the national consciousness over US Space Policy**
**Spennemann 7** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 905
The value and significance of Apollo 11 cannot be AND grounding the discussion in its theoretical context.

**Plan solves preservation of lunar sites – exclusion zone is key**
**Spennemann 7** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 908-909 Visitation. Lunar tourism presents a significant, and unique, AND heritage convention needs to be developed and agreed to.

**A wilderness area is an area of planetary surface untrammelled by people – this is the stable definition defined by law**
**Cockell & Horneck 6** (Researchers at German Aerospace Center, Institute of Aerospace Medicine), “Planetary parks – formulating a wilderness policy for planetary bodies”, Space Policy 22 (2006), p. 256-261
The concept of ‘wilderness’ and its purpose varies … include indirect human activities (including the landing of robotic craft).

**Plan solves – parks are key to maintain areas for protection**
**Cockell & Horneck 6** (Researchers at German Aerospace Center, Institute of Aerospace Medicine), “Planetary parks – formulating a wilderness policy for planetary bodies”, Space Policy 22 (2006), p. 256-261
The concept of a ‘planetary park’ bears some similarities … scientific preservation is just one motive within a planetary park system, which has a wider remit.
==Emory== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">National Parks</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Plan Text**</span>==== 
**The United States federal government should create National Parks on the Moon covering the Apollo landing sites.**

====**Advantage 1: Frontier Myth**==== 
**Current space policy is bent towards colonization for the sake of resource exploitation and national dominance**
**Billings**, (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), **‘9**, “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 3
Today national policy promotes colonization, but with AND the meaning, and the value, of space exploration?

**This thinking of Outer Space is wrapped in ideas of American Imperialism – to know, control, and colonize ‘new worlds’**
**Young 87**
(M. Jane, Professor of American Studies and Regents Lecturer, both at the University of New Mexico, “Parables of the Space Age-The Ideological Basis of Space Exploration,” Western Folklore, October of 1987,DA:6/25/11, CP)
The "mainstream" American view of outer space is a reflection AND they serve as social commentary and critique.

**Plan engages in a rethinking of our understanding of space – to protect rather than exploit**
**Billings**, (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), **‘9**, “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 5
One place where ethical considerations of protection and preservation intersect AND in a less invasive way than current frontier rhetoric does.

**We access the key internal link – a National Lunar Park would connect society to the ideal of protection and unified identity**
**Spennemann**, (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), **‘7**, “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 906-907
Cultural Tourism. For heritage management, AND travel, can enjoy a participatory experience.

**We’ll isolate two impacts:**
**First – the Cosmocentric Ethic – we have a Moral obligation to protect the environment of the Moon**
**IAA,** (International Academy of Astronautics ‘Cosmic Study’ Group of IAA Commission V), **10**, “Protecting the Environment of Celestial Bodies”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%205/sg56/sg56finaldraftreport.pdf, p.27
The timeliness of initiating a profound professional discussion AND for a Martian land ethic and for a land ethic that extends to all other worlds.”

**Under a Cosmocentric Ethic – questions about our environmental impact in space come first**
**Logsdon,** (Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University), ’**97**, “Do We Need A Cosmocentric Ethic”, pg. 2
Pre-detection planning regarding in situ human AND critical components of the suite of precursor missions.

**A Cosmocentric ethic is the most moral framework – things have intrinsic value**
**Logsdon,** (Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University), ’**97**, “Do We Need A Cosmocentric Ethic”, pg. 1
A cosmocentric ethic might be characterized AND indigenous primitive extraterrestrial life forms.

**Second – our aff serves as a questioning of the Frontier Myth – this is necessary to challenge constant cycles of violence and genocide**
**Slotkin 92** (Richard Slotkin a cultural critic and historian. He is the Olin Professor of English and American Studies at Wesleyan University in Middletown, CT, and in 2010 was elected a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences wrote award winning trilogy, Regeneration Through Violence, The Fatal Environment, and Gunfighter Nation , 1992, Gunfighter Nation, The Myth of the Frontier in 20th century America, pg 112-114 E169.12 .S57 1992, DA: 6/24/11, CP)
By the terms of the Frontier Myth, once imperial war was AND in extreme circumstances, in vilante attacks on labor organizers, like those on IWW agitators.

**Genocide comes first**
**Card 3** [Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, “Genocide and Social Death,” Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]
Genocide is not simply unjust AND lies in its infliction of not just physical death (when it does that) but social death, producing a consequent meaninglessness of one's life and even of its termination.

====**Advantage 2: Soft Power**==== 
**Current trends are towards commercial space tourism – this threatens the lunar environment**
**Spennemann**, (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), ‘**4**, “The ethics of treading on Neil Armstrong’s footprints”, Space Policy 20 (2004), pp. 279-290
In the decades since the last crewed mission to the Moon, AND are part of the heritage of all humanity.

**Plan spills over – creates a new narrative of space as something to protect**
**Billings,** (Research Professor at George Washington University, Media and Public Affairs), **‘9**, “Media, citizens and space exploration: Conquest and exploitation or discovery and understanding”, pg. 8-9
Rhetorical critic Janice Hocker Rushing made the case AND potential for generating such a dialogue.

**Changing our thinking of the lunar environment spills over to a change in global consciousness – this promotes US environmental leadership**
**Daly ‘7,** “Separated at Birth, Signs of Rapprochement: Environmental Ethics and Space Exploration”, Ethics and the Environment, http://www.csid.unt.edu/files/env_ethics_and_space.pdf, pg. 2-3
Professional philosophers were slow to AND Arthur C. Clarke, and others.

**This model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction**
**Harris 1** (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)
In addition to promoting U.S. global interests, a AND (we would not be treating them as independent moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).

**Ignore their alt causes – US moon contamination is uniquely bad**
**Spennemann,** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), **‘7**, “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 904-905
Quantity of Material Left on the Lunar Surface. There is AND lunar rovers, and some discarded objects (such body waste bags).

====**Solvency**==== 
**Plan solves preservation of the Moon – prefer our peer reviewed study**
**IAA,** (International Academy of Astronautics ‘Cosmic Study’ Group of IAA Commission V), **10**, “Protecting the Environment of Celestial Bodies”, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%205/sg56/sg56finaldraftreport.pdf, p.46
In lunar exploration, a further complication is what we call AND To preserve regions for future generations.

**A National Park for the Apollo sites is the legal and ethical responsibility of the United States**
**Spennemann**, (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), **‘4,** “The ethics of treading on Neil Armstrong’s footprints”, Space Policy 20 (2004), pp. 279-290
Heritage management on Earth is primarily the responsibility of AND taking a subsidiary role to Australia legislation.

**The Apollo site is uniquely important for the national consciousness over US Space Policy**
**Spennemann,** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), **‘7**, “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 905
The value and significance of Apollo 11 cannot be AND grounding the discussion in its theoretical context.

**Plan solves preservation of lunar sites – exclusion zone is key**
**Spennemann,** (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University)**, ‘7,** “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 908-909
Visitation. Lunar tourism presents a significant, and unique, AND heritage convention needs to be developed and agreed to.

====**2AC Politics**==== 
**Turn – MAJORITY LEADER REID loves the plan**
**Reid 12** (Senator Harry Reid; “Environment” ;http://reid.senate.gov/issues/environment.cfm; Kiyoshi)
I have always been a strong supporter AND there’s still much more to do.

==Bronx== 
===Lunar Solar Power=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.1em;"><span class="Underline">**Plan Text**</span></span>==== 
**<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should develop a Lunar Solar Power system on the Earth's Moon.</span>**

====**Advantage 1: Risk Calculus**==== 
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Austen, 11** [Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]]]</span>
<span class="Underline">Earth won’t always be fit for occupation</span>. We know that …<span class="Underline"> but there will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it.”</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Jason G. **Matheny**, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 200**7** (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
As for astronomical risks, <span class="Underline">to escape our sun's death</span>, humanity<span class="Underline">…fundamentally about </span>**__the survival of the species__**."

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">LSP allows for colonization of moon and outer space</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Bekey et al 2000**, Criswell, Friedman, Greenwood, Miller -- Professors of Aeronautics and Space Development @ USC, Univ. Houston, Univ. Oklahoma (<[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2000-FinalReport-AutonomousConstructionAndManufacturing.pdf]]>, " AUTONOMOUS CONSTRUCTION AND MANUFACTURING FOR SPACE ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM", NASA and NSF Report)</span>
<span class="Underline">Energy is fundamental to nearly everything that humans would like …</span> to fabricate solar cells on location.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Human colonization is feasible – but a robotic outpost is needed.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
As shown in the previous chapters, __t__he Moon has the energy…in the south polar region is an excellent location for the first lunar base.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">LSP is critical for the future colonization of the moon and future planets -- self-sustaining energy source</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705]]>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)</span>
The long term exploration and colonization of the solar system … fabrication of more solar cells.

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 200**9** Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]], Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. </span><span class="Underline">For any fixed probability, </span>existential risks are<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> thus </span>more serious than other …<span class="Underline"> certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.[13]</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game.</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nick **Bostrom**, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 200**9** (“The Future of Humanity,” Geopolitics, History and International Relations, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf]], Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>
Extinction risks constitute an especially severe subset of what could … massacre for man, a small misstep for mankind.

====**Advantage 2: Space Race**==== 
**There’s a race to the Moon now:**
**First, Growing number of Japanese organizations are looking towards LSP projects – Japanese earthquake and energy strategy**
**EcoBusiness 7/12**/11-- Asia Business Magazine(“ Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/)
When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”

**Second, Even the perception of U.S. losing the moon undermines international leadership**
**Vorenberg 08** - Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist
The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."

**The plan is key:**
**A. Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel**
**Ignatiev et al 2001** -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)
Energy is fundamental to nearly everything that humans… electrical energy needed for the development of space.

**B. Japanese LSP would control key moon real estate, moon energy infrastructure, and ensure Japanese lunar resource exploitation**
**Shimizu Corp June 2011** (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)
A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.

**C. The Moon, specifically the South Pole, is the lynchpin of the system and solar system development overall. The pole is key to minerals, others are going for the Moon now.**
**Whitehouse 8-9** [Dr. David Whitehouse “scientist, writer and broadcaster. He has a doctorate in Astrophysics from Jodrell Bank. Was BBC Science correspondent 1988 - 2006. He has won numerous awards as well as European Internet Journalist of the Year.”; “Returning the Moon”; 8/9/2011; http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/dr-david-whitehouse/return-to-the-moon_b_953061.html; ahs]
Just as the United States is turning away from the…strategic analysis, the Moon base sits at the heart of a sensible solar system exploration plan.

**We have the tech now for LSP.**
**Criswell 3** [Testimony of Dr. David R. Criswell (prof at the University of Houston and expert on LSP) at Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space Hearings: "Lunar Exploration" Thursday, November 6, 2003, 2:30 PM � SR-253; http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=10926; Boyce]
The Lunar Solar Power (LSP) System does not require…oversee the lunar machinery and maintain the LSP System.

**We isolate 3 impact scenarios:**
**A.) Hegemony:**
**Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key**
**Spudis 10** – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf
In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.

**Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts**
**Kagan 07** Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have … under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.

**B) Transition from US dominance causes conflict– China.**
**Friedberg 2011** (July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)
THE UNITED States and the ... often been marked by war

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**C)** **Going to space solves the K- it frees us from the indulgences of the world**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**White 87** (Frank White, author of six books about space exploration, founder of the Overview Effect Institute, frequently speaks at conferences about space exploration, holds a B.A. from Harvard College and an M.Phil. from Oxford University, 1987 [“Creating the Future,” //The Overview Effect: Space Exploration and Human Evolution//, Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, ISBN [[tel/0395430844|0395430844]], p. 182-183])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">For the prisoners in the cave … ignorance of what is truly possible</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Technology exists to build a robotic outpost on the Moon – technology to transport humans will be developed in the process</span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Schrunk et al. 7** – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, pp. 80-81, p. SpringerLink)</span>
4.10 LAUNCH VEHICLE CAPABILITY While no system is currently …permanent human habitation.


=Negative= 
==Strategies/Intel== 
===Bronx=== 
NOTE: Refer to Alpharetta - Tucker Boyce & Anushka Panday for previous negative arguments.

====**Round 1 vs. Stuyvesant DC (SBMD)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA CP, Politics (Repatriation Tax Holiday/Infrastructure), Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
1NR: T - of
2NR: T - of

====**Round 3 vs. Mt. Hebron DW (DSCVR)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA Data Sharing CP, Weather K, & Politics DA (China Bashing)
2NC: Weather K & Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (China Bashing) DA
2NR: Weather K

====**Round 6 vs University AZ (SBMD)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA CP, Politics DA (Repatriation Tax Holiday/Infrastructure), Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
1NR: T - it's, of
2NR: ESA CP, Heg Bad

====**Doubles vs. Centennial K? (DSCVR)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA Data Sharing CP, Weather K, & Politics DA (China Bashing), Case Defense
2NC: Weather K & Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (China Bashing)
2NR: Weather K, Case Defense

====**Octos vs. American History JB (DSCVR)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA Data Sharing CP, Weather K, & Politics DA (China Bashing), Case Defense
2NC: Weather K & Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (China Bashing)
2NR: Weather K

====**Quarters vs. BCC MN (Commons)**==== 
1NC: T - development, explorations, T - beyond, #Occupy CP, Tragic Comedy Cap K, Statism DA
2NC: #Occupy CP & Statism DA
1NR: T - development, T - beyond
2NR: T- development, T - beyond (Extra T was on this flow)


===Northview=== 
====**Round 2 vs. Chattahoochee DT (Nanosats)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA CP, Spending DA, Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
1NR: T - of
2NR: ESA CP, Heg Bad, & Case Defense

====**Round 3 vs. Milton TV (SSA)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA CP, Spending DA, Nuclear Primacy Bad, Case Defense
2NC: Nuclear Primacy Bad, Case Defense
1NR: T - of
2NR: T - of


===Glenbrooks=== 
====**Round 2 vs. Rufus King**==== 
1NC: T - it's , of, ESA CP, Heg Bad, Politics DA (Payroll Tax Cuts), Case Defense
2NC: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (Payroll Tax Cuts)
2NR: ESA CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense

====**Round 3 vs. Pace KS (SSA)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, Information K, Politics DA (Payroll Tax Cuts), Nuclear Primacy Bad, Case Defense
2NC: Information K, Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (Payroll Tax Cuts)
2NR: Information K, Case Defense

====**Round 5 vs. Pembrook Hill LV (Heidegger Aff)**==== 
1NC: Framework, Right Wing Takeover/Positivism K, Case Defense
2NC: Right Wing Takeover/Positivsm K, Case Defense
1NR: Framework
2NR: Right Wing Takeover K, Framework, Case Defense


===Ohio Valley=== 
====**Round 1 vs. Woodward NS (TSATs)**==== 
1NC: T - it's, of, ESA Funding CP, Heidegger K, Elections DA (Obama Good), Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC: ESA Funding CP, Heg Bad
1NR: Elections DA (Obama Good)
2NR: ESA Funding CP, Elections DA (Obama Good)

====**Round 3 vs. Centennial HK (Climate Denialism)**==== 
1NC: Buddhism K, ESA Funding CP, Elections (Obama Good) DA
2NC: ESA Funding CP, Buddhism K
1NR: Elections DA (Obama Good)
2NR: Buddhism K

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Round 6 vs. Whitney Young NR ()**</span>==== 
1NC: Privatization CP, Buddhism K, Politics (Payroll Tax Cuts) DA, Nuclear Primacy Bad, Case Defense
2NC: Buddhism K, Case Defense
1NR: Politics DA (Payroll Tax Cuts)
2NR: Buddhism K

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Doubles vs. National Cathedral SS (Climate Denialism)**</span>==== 
1NC: Buddhism K, ESA CP, Elections DA (Obama Good), Case Defense
2NC: Buddhism K, Case Defense
1NR: Elections DA (Obama Good)
2NR: Elections DA (Obama Good), Case Defense


===Lexington=== 
====**Round 2 vs. McDonough MR (Climate Denialism)**==== 
1NC: Weather K, USAID CP, Racial Contract Bad, Case Defense
2NC: Weather K, USAID CP
1NR:
2NR:

====**Round 4 vs. Bronx Science MT**==== 
1NC: Information K, Taiwan Arm Sales CP, ESA Data Sharing/Procurement CP, Heg Bad, Case Defense
2NC: ESA Data Sharing/Procurement CP, Heg Bad
1NR: Elections DA (Obama Good)
2NR: ESA Data Sharing/Procurement CP, ... I forgot right now.

====**Round 5 vs. Beacon BB (Junior Brown)**==== 
<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"> </span>1NC: T - development, Framework, Buddhism K, Cede the Political/Positivism K, Metaphors Bad, Racial Contract Bad, Case Defense
2NC: Metaphors Bad, Racial Contract Bad, Case Defense, Cede the Political/Positivism K
1NR: T - development, Framework
2NR: Metaphors Bad, Racial Contract Bad, Case Defense, Cede the Political/Positivism K


===**Barkley Forum**=== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Round 1 vs. Winston Churchill BL (Nonsense - Kamu)**</span>==== 
1NC: T - development, Framework, Cede the Political/Positivism K, Buddhism K, Case Defense
2NC: Buddhism K, Metaphors Bad
1NR: T - development, Framework
2NR: Buddhism K

====**Round 4 vs. Maine East MK (Commons)**==== 
1NC: T (a bunch but I don't rmr) ESA CP, #Occupy Wall Street CP, Successful Movement NB, Elections DA (Obama Good), Case Defense
2NC: #Occupy Wall Street CP, Elections DA (Obama Good)
1NR: T
2NR: T

===UGA=== 

===GFCA Varsity State=== 


==Cites== 
===Kritiks=== 
====**Weather K**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
**The affirmative’s call for disaster preparedness deploys a techno-scientific discourse to conceal material inequalities—this framing is intrinsic to their policy proposal.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27-28)
The emergence of natural disasters … extensive colonial structures.

**Their call for improved weather prediction is a product of their ideological blinders—failure to foreground questions of class and economics screens out root causes and makes the impact of disasters worse.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/, Accessed 08-02-2011)
However, prediction is limited … screen out the politics of disaster.

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s call for more and better weather data. Contesting the epistemology and methodology that underwrites the plan is a necessary prerequisite to effective disaster politics—the critique turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29-30)
All this is not to deny that disasters … risk or otherwise directly involved (1997: 358).

=====**Link/Impact**===== 
**The View From Above: Their call for more satellite weather data entrenches a view from above that divorces humanity from nature and desensitizes us to disaster—turns the case.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/, Accessed 08-02-2011)
Katrina was not only a weather event … are not a part of the narrative of weather media.

**Technocratic Managerialism: The affirmative enframes disaster preparedness as an issue of technology and bureaucratic management—this ensures serial policy failure and collective victim blaming—turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
More recently these qualities have … that had the opportunity to reduce risk but failed to do so (Varley, 1994: 3).

**Salvation Through Prediction: The affirmative’s fetishization of prediction erases political agency—we become witnesses instead of actors.**
**Sturken 1** — Marita Sturken, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Southern California, 2001 (“Desiring the Weather: El Niño, the Media, and California Identity,” Public Culture, Volume 13, Number 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)
The weather is the site of a production … we could be prepared.

**Bare Life: Enframing certain populations as “vulnerable” condemns them to live in defenseless spaces—they are reduced to bare life.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
The discourse of vulnerability … despotic or illegitimate governments (Hewitt, 1997: 165).

**That results in Western interventions—the impact is ethnocentrism.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27)
The Western discourse on disasters … affairs of those regions for our and their sakes.

**Dual Use: The affirmative’s call for more weather data from satellites is inextricably tied up in the military-industrial complex.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/, Accessed 08-02-2011)
The reporter-in-weather is a fixture … but serves to underwrite them as well.

=====**Alternative**===== 
**The alternative solves the case—rejecting the affirmative’s disaster politics is key to effective preparedness.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29-30)
The more a threat is perceived as chronic … for so many millions for so long.

=====**AT: Perm**===== 
**And, radical critique is key—the permutation doesn’t solve.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29)
The problem, from the … reflects the values and principles of that culture.

**And, the permutation links to our Preparedness DA—focusing on individual preparedness trades off with structural solutions, flipping the case.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/, Accessed 08-02-2011)
Government campaigns that sell the idea … all citizens to the most basic of human needs.

=====**AT: Framework**===== 
**And, weather must be evaluated critically—purely scientific approaches ensure serial policy failure.**
**Berland 94** — Jody Berland, Professor in the Department of Humanities at York University, 1994 (“On reading ‘The weather’,” Cultural Studies, Volume 8, Issue 1, January, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via IngentaConnect, p. 111-112)
We can begin to understand … diverse ways that such inscription occurs.


====**Information K**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
**Their scenario-building is a ruse – disaster solutions are crafted post-hoc to maintain the illusion of control**
Michael **Dudley 7**, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg, “Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide”, Theory and Event, Volume 10, Number 2
In his 1999 book, Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents… will nonetheless have served their rhetorical purpose.

**Bare Life: Enframing certain populations as “vulnerable” condemns them to live in defenseless spaces—they are reduced to bare life.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
The discourse of vulnerability … despotic or illegitimate governments (Hewitt, 1997: 165).

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s call for more and better weather data. Contesting the epistemology and methodology that underwrites the plan is a necessary prerequisite to effective disaster politics—the critique turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 29-30)
All this is not to deny that disasters … risk or otherwise directly involved (1997: 358).

=====**Link/Impact**===== 
**The affirmative’s call for disaster preparedness deploys a techno-scientific discourse to conceal material inequalities—this framing is intrinsic to their policy proposal.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27-28)
The emergence of natural disasters … extensive colonial structures.

**Salvation Through Prediction: The affirmative’s fetishization of prediction erases political agency—we become witnesses instead of actors.**
**Sturken 1** — Marita Sturken, Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Southern California, 2001 (“Desiring the Weather: El Niño, the Media, and California Identity,” Public Culture, Volume 13, Number 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)
The weather is the site of a production … we could be prepared.

**That results in Western interventions—the impact is ethnocentrism.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27)
The Western discourse on disasters … affairs of those regions for our and their sakes.

=====**AT: We Solve**===== 
**There is no such thing as “solving” accidents – it’s built into the technology**
Greg **Siegel 5**, Assistant Professor in the Film and Media Department at UC Santa Barbara, “Technologies of Accident”, dissertation for a phd in philosophy from UNC Chapel Hill
Accidentality is doubly implicated in the narrative… power to disturb even the scene of their own exorcism.

=====**Framework**===== 
**Technocratic Managerialism: The affirmative enframes disaster preparedness as an issue of technology and bureaucratic management—this ensures serial policy failure and collective victim blaming—turns the case.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 24-25)
More recently these qualities have … that had the opportunity to reduce risk but failed to do so (Varley, 1994: 3).


====**Right-Wing Takeover/Positivism K**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
**Their attempt to move beyond pragmatic, positivism thinking dooms scholars to policy-irrelevance and undermines the search for solutions to effective problems --- our alternative is to engage status-quo politics**
**Houghton 08** Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida (David Patrick, Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference? International Politics (2008) 45 )
As long ago as 1981, Yale Ferguson and Richard Mansbach effectively laid the influence … ought to be what divides the international relations scene today.

**Positivist methods are on the cusp of major breakthrough in our understanding of war.**
**Bennett and Stam 04** Distinguished Professor of political science from UMich and Professor of Government at Dartmouth (Scott and Allan, The behavioral origins of war)
We close with a call for methodological pluralism … sailing into the winds and waiting out the storm.

**Scholarly engagement with state policy is critical to prevent war.**
**Walt ’91** (Stephen, Professor – U Chicago, International Studies Quarterly, 35)
A recurring theme of this essay has been the twin dangers of separating … gradual-impact on how states deal with the problem of war in the future.

**The refusal to engage in traditional politics makes social coordination and public engagement impossible --- guarantees a corporate takeover that causes extinction.**
**Boggs ‘97** (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreAT: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fullteExt..pdf)
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series … collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75

=====**2NC Impact**===== 
**The only way to address the environment is by engaging in international political reforms.**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 305-306)
For example, ecology as a political struggle is … personal is the political, the only political realm that can matter.

**Extinction**
**Diner 94** (David N., Judge Advocate General’s Corps of US Army Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, LN)JFS
No species has ever dominated its fellow species =… [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

=====**Framework**===== 
**Policy change is necessary to alleviate real and on-going suffering. Abstract claims of “epistemology” and “ontology” and non-impacts like “technological rationality” are ivory-tower constructions that condemn millions to death**
**Jarvis 00** (Darryl, Senior Lecturer in International Relations – University of Sydney, International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism, p. 128-130)
Questions of Relevance, Rhetoric, Fiction, and Irrationalism While Ashley's rhetoric serves to effect a number of political moves, … ontological dilemmas that otherwise seem to preoccupy Ashley."

**Prefer our arguments --- their claims have not been subject to rigorous empirical testing.**
**Bennett and Stam 04** Distinguished Professor of political science from UMich and Professor of Government at Dartmouth
(Scott and Allan, The behavioral origins of war)
Clearly, evaluating the relative explanatory power of different empirical assertions … even reverse the direction of the previous findings (Gowa 1999; Mansfield and Snyder 1995).

**Grassroots activism fails – it is poorly structured and cannot fully inform people, destroying movements.**
**Stoker 6** – Professor of Politics, University of Manchester (Gerry, “WHY POLITICS MATTERS: MAKING DEMOCRACY WORK”, 2006, Pg. 114-115)
There can be little doubt that the democratic world would be less rich … one that they can take up or leave as they please.

=====**2NC Link**===== 
**Heidegger’s over determined Being so strongly that free will is impossible.**
**Wolin, 90** - Distinguished Professor of History at the City University of New York Graduate Center - 1990 (Richard Wolin, The Politics of Being, P. 153)
Consequently, the major problem with Heidegger's later philosophy … rather, it is the "destiny of Being.

=====**2NC Alternative**===== 
**Institutional approaches are the only way to avoid the collapse of all movements and effectively challenge the flawed state policies.**
**Grossberg, 1992** (Lawrence, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389)


===Counterplans=== 
====**#Occupy CP**==== 
=====**CP Text**===== 
**Text: The Occupy movement should demand that space be developed as a common.**

=====**1NC Shell**===== 
**The Occupy Wall Street movement has generated a common now**
**Klien 10/11** (Kim Klien Commons building movements supporter, 10/11, Kim Klien and the commons
http://kimkleinandthecommons.blogspot.com/2011/10/occupy-wall-street.html Moxley)
But both of us were incredibly moved … the release of our regrets, anything seemed possible.

**Governmental action fails – only the Occupy Wall Street Movement can solve common**
**Zizek 10/9** (Slavoj Zizek, He is a professor of philosophy and psychoanalysis at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, He speaks at the Occupy Wall Street Movement, “Today Libery Plaza had a visit from Slavoj Zizek” http://occupywallst.org/article/today-liberty-plaza-had-visit-slavoj-zizek//Moxley)
We can see that for a long time we … For this and only for this we should fight.

=====**2NC Overview**===== 
**Claims that we must engage the state shift blame from corrupt government to the people who fight for freedom – this causes a failure of the Occupy movement and turn case – CP alone is the only way to give cred to the fight against neoliberalism.**
**Doctrine 2008** (Liana, “Articles from Anarchy: A Journal of Desire Armed,” Anarchy: A Journal of Desire Armed, http://theanarchistlibrary.org/articles-anarchy-journal-desire-armed)
The second line of popular defense alleges that where the state … overworked, strung-out, and guilty population. Feel dizzy yet?

**The Counterplan establishes a clear goal for the Occupy movement. Without clear goals, the occupy movement will fail.**
**Ostroy 10/7/11** (Huffington Post- Political and pop culture analyst. “The Occupy Wall Street Movement needs a clear set of demands” <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/andy-ostroy/occupy-wall-street-demands_b_999658.html>. asmiley)
I have been awed and inspired by the raw energy, passion and commitment … an incredible legacy for this amazing group of people.

=====**2NC Personal Movements**===== 
**Movements are key to revolution**
**Holloway 05** (John, 8-16, Ph.D Political Science-University of Edinburgh , “Can We Change The World Without Taking Power?”, [[http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/5616]])
On the question of fissures. We often feel helpless … we accept the template of the concept of the state?

**An attack on capitalism in the form of a movement would cause a paradigm shift necessary to overthrow capitalism.**
**Kovel 02** (Joel, Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, The Enemy of Nature: The End of Capitalism or the End of the World? pg 223-224)
Revolutions become feasible when a people decides … sharply defined incorporate the goal towards which it moves?

=====**2NC Spillover**===== 
**The movement spills over – current global movements**
**Trumbull 10/15** (Mark Trumbull, Staff Writer for Christian Science Monitor 'Occupy' protests go global, riding wave of economic frustration, October 15th, 2011, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2011/1015/Occupy-protests-go-global-riding-wave-of-economic-frustration//Moxley)//
The spirit of the "Occupy Wall Street" rippled around the globe on Saturday … Dawson said. "I work four jobs part-time, I take whatever I can get."

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">Here's more evidence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Washington Post 10/15** (Washington Post, Occupy Wall Street Protests Go Global,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"><http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/occupy-wall-street-protests-go-global/2011/10/15/gIQAp7kimL_story.html> </span>Moxley)
LONDON — Linking up with the Occupy Wall Street protests … but crowds elsewhere were largely peaceful.

=====**2NC Perm**===== 
**The state provides protection for capitalism**
**Martin 99** [Brian, Ghandi Marg, 21 (3) http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/99gm.html
From the point of view of nonviolence, a crucial feature of capitalism … capitalism depend on and mutually reinforce each other.


===Topicality=== 
====**It's/Of**==== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Its means ownership**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**Merriam Webster Dictionary**. “its”. **2010**. http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/its</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">its- of or relating to it …its final enactment into law></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of Space=In Space</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**BOCKSTIEGEL 95** Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">(Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) … be considered as ‘use’ of space.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">**1NR Standard/Impacts**</span>===== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Risk of a limits DA means you vote neg – people quit</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Rowland ‘84** (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate,” American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The first major problem identified by the work group … some small schools to cancel their programs.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">AND Studies prove – depth is better than breadth.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Arrington ‘9** (Rebecca, UVA Today, “Study Finds That Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, in High School Science Courses” March 4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">A recent study reports that high school … courses that touched on every major topic.</span>
[[media type="custom" key="12682030"]]

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]