=1AC- Commons= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif;">__Contention 1 - Inherency__ </span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Our historical narrative discussions of outer-space as empty space produces an American space policy dedicated to national conquest, dominance, and technological control. These narratives lock in nationalist policies for conquest for the sake of expansion that is rooted in incoherent discourses of the more nuanced narratives of space. </span>**
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Siddiqi</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 15px;">History20</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span>**</span> - Asif, Assistant <span style="font-size: 15px;">Prof</span>essor, Fordham University - Technology and Culture, Volume 51, Number 2, April 2010, pp. 425-430
<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 9px;">David Nye has succinctly noted that “</span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 13px;">t...</span><span style="font-size: 15px;">narratives make claims as global narratives, or the “global normative</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">”</span>


<span class="EmphasisA"> </span>
<span class="EmphasisA">**<span style="color: #242424; font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Capitalism will inevitably collapse because of its unsustainable narrative discussions of policies. Space is the ONLY haven left for society to shift away from the market state in order to have sustainability. </span>**</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Quilligan</span>**</span><span style="color: #242424; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">, James </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">’10</span>**</span><span style="color: #242424; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (James Bernard Quilligan has been an analyst and administrator in the field of international development since 1975. He has served as policy advisor and writer for many international politicians and leaders, including Pierre Trudeau, François Mitterand, Edward Heath, Julius Nyerere, Olof Palme, Willy Brandt, Jimmy Carter, and His Royal Highness Prince El Hassan of Jordan.) “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Beyond State Capitalism”</span><span style="color: #242424; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">July 30th, 2010 http://onthecommons.org/beyond-state-capitalism</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Although peopleʼs rights ..</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9px;">orsaken global commons are beckoning.</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Plan Text</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop space beyond the earth’s mesosphere as the Common Heritage of Humankind.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contention 2 – Enclosure</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">Current U.S. space policy is based on an epistemology of enclosure. United States administrations argued that outer space should be considered “empty space” – unclaimed by an existing state but subject to enclosure.</span>**

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Milun </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kathryn, </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Anthropology/Sociology @ Minnesota Duluth 20</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**10** </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">The Political Uncommons: the cross-cultural logic of the global commons p. </span>

<span style="font-size: 15px;">When Sputnik was launched in....</span> access to outer space as a global commons.
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The territorial enclosure of space applied colonial hierarchies and concepts to outer space development. Fear of the tragedy of the commons conceals structural inequalities in economic development and technological infrastructure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kathryn </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Milun</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Anthropology/Sociology @ Minnesota Duluth 20</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> The Political Uncommons: the cross-cultural logic of the global commons p. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">141-145</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">In 1999</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;"> __the__ United Nations </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">General Assembly voted to reaffirm...</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">century imperialist sense.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Destruction of the commons in favor of national competition risks planetary destruction.</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Josée </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Johnston</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">, Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Toronto, 20</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">03</span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;"> - Capitalism, Nature, Socialism, “Who Cares about the Commons?” December 2003, [Stolarski</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Even when the specific language of enclosure of the commons...</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">planet, its value calculus cannot discern any problem</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Articulating outer-space as the common heritage of humankind unites political struggles against enclosure and exploitation.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Kathryn </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Milun</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Anthropology/Sociology @ Minnesota Duluth 20</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> The Political Uncommons: the cross-cultural logic of the global commons p. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">199-200</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">There are deep cultural roots..</span>__everyone and no-one.__ 
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">Working to gather to recognize the global commons is the only way to solve environmental degradation </span>**
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Falk</span>**</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**2K**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">Richard Falk is an American professor emeritus of international law at Princeton University, the author or co-author of 20 books and the editor or co-editor of another 20 books,[1] speaker, activist on world affairs, and an appointee to two United Nations positions on the Palestinian territories.) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">00</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;"> “Human Governance for the world: Reviving the Quest” 2000 (http://www.jstor.org/stable/4177345) [Pitman] </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Another closely related normative...by transnational civic initiatives. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">We have an ethical responsibility to preserve the space environment for future generations</span>**

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scheetz</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">, Lori (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">J.D. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">Candidate, Georgetown University Law Center) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">’</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">07</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;"> “Infusing Environmental Ethics into the Space Weapons Dialogue” (The Georgetown International Environmental Law Review: Volume 19:57 2006-2007)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9px;">Weiss stresses that two relationships are integral components ...</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">present and future generations</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9px;">.</span>




__<span style="font-family: 'Century Gothic','sans-serif';">Contention 3 – I-Law</span>__


<span class="UnderlineA">**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Inserting the common heritage principal into international law is counter-hegemonic – We link together the past, present and future to ensure global sustainability</span>**</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Santos and Rodriquez 05’</span>**</span><span class="Heading2Char">- </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Santos Sociology Professor at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal) and Rodriguez-Garavito Assistant Professor of Law and Sociology at the University of the Andes, Colombia 2005Boaventura, Cesar, “Law and Globalization from Below,” pp. 273-276, </span>












<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 9px;">11.3 EMANCIPATION THROUGH EMANCIPATORY MEANS </span><span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 13px;">The common heritage of humankind regime ..Council (e. g. Kosovo and Iraq) clearly confirm this.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">Challenging the U.S. federal government to respect the principle of Common Heritage is a productive political project. Commitment in the face of failure generates new norms capable of responding to structural inequality. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Richard </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">FALK</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Woodrow Wilson School @ Princeton </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">2K </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">“Human Governance for the World: Reviving the Quest” Review of International Political Economy 7 (2) p. 318-332</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">At present, there are ingredients of humane ...as we begin the new millennium. </span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan creates cooperation and harmony with other nations – THE COMMONS spill over globally </span>**

<span class="DebateUnderline"> </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Center for New American Security</span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">10’</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif';"> - (</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Abraham M. Denmark is a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Chris Evans is a Senior Consultant at Delta Risk Consulting. Robert D. Kaplan, a National Correspondent for The Atlantic and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, is writing a book on the Indian Ocean. Jason Healey is the Washington D.C. Office Director for Delta Risk Consulting. Frank Hoffman wrote his chapter when he was a Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute and the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies. He now works for the Department of the Navy. Oliver Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force. Lt Col Kelly Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Dr. James Mulvenon is Vice-President of Defense Group Inc.’s Intelligence Division and Director of DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis. Dr. Greg Rattray is a Partner at Delta Risk Consulting, is Chief Internet Security Advisor at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), and is a member of the Cyber Conflict Studies Association Board. Eric Sterner is a Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.) </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif';">2010 “ </span><span style="font-size: 9px;">Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World” 2010 (http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested%20Commons_1.pdf) [Pitman] </span>








<span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">The United States must set the ....</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">limitations, of these kinds of discussions.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Strong international law is necessary to prevent nuclear war and genocide</span>



Martin **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Shaw</span>__**, Professor, International Relations and Politics, University of Sussex, REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, October 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">01</span>__**, npg.
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">The new politics of international relations require us...international relations and politics, are intertwined.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 16px;">And state action is key to solve</span>**

Josée <span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Johnston</span>**</span>, Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Toronto, 20<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">0</span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">3</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif';"> - </span>Capitalism, Nature, Socialism, “Who Cares about the Commons?” December 2003, [Stolarski]
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">While the sustainable development historic...</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">discourse of perpetual expansion.</span>__















==Neg Rounds== 
===<span class="Underline">wake </span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Round 2</span>
<span class="Underline">Loyola (CA) </span>
<span class="Underline">Security AFF(debate space change/ nuclear discussion good)</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC:</span>
<span class="Underline">1. Debater Hater K (CAP + FW)</span>
<span class="Underline">2. Creationism DA</span>


<span class="Underline">2NR:</span>
<span class="Underline">1. debater Hater K </span>

<span class="Underline">Round 3 </span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas Jefferson </span>
<span class="Underline">Solar flares aff( solar storms -black outs, power grids, climate conflicts- military conflicts Heg)</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC:</span>
<span class="Underline">Cap K </span>
<span class="Underline">China qpq cp</span>
<span class="Underline">Ptx( skfta good)</span>
<span class="Underline">t-pre-existing </span>
<span class="Underline">t-aspec </span>
<span class="Underline">case ( solar flare defense, heg turns) </span>

<span class="Underline">2NR: </span>
<span class="Underline">China qpq cp </span>


<span class="Underline">Round 6 </span>
<span class="Underline">Lunar SPS (heg, existential risk, resource)</span>
<span class="Underline">Cap K </span>
<span class="Underline">China qpq cp</span>
<span class="Underline">Ptx( skfta good)</span>
<span class="Underline">t-pre-existing </span>
<span class="Underline">t-aspec </span>
<span class="Underline">case(existential risk defense, resource Defense)</span>