[[toc]]
=Case Negs= 
== == 
==Performance Neg== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hip hop is growing ever more homophobic – turns the case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Henley ‘7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Tara – April 5, 2011 – Journalist specializing in hip-hop music, style, and culture – “Hip-hop homophobia grows” - <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.straight.com/article-82856/hip-hop-homophobia-grows]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Back in February, CNN aired AND which must really suck.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Hip hop music is perpetuated in capitalist exploitation promoted at the expense of others- The Black community constructed rap but over time it is becoming corrupted to the point where it is an embodiment of whiteness. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Johnson 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Christopher is a Program Officer in the Africa Region of the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (The AFL-CIO Solidarity Center) in Washington, D.C. He has worked in partnership with trade unionists in Angola, Nigeria, South Africa, and Zimbabwe. Prior to accepting his current position, he worked for a number of years as a union organizer with both public and private sector unions. His written work has appeared in //The Journal of Black Studies, The Encyclopedia of African American History, and The Encyclopedia of Black Studies//. He holds a Ph.D. in African American Studies from Temple University. “Danceable Capitalism: Hip-Hop’s Link to Corporate Space.” June 1, 2008. Journal of Pan African Studies Volume: 2 Issue: 4 Page: 80(13).)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Introduction Technological advances, AND how to deal with r’n’b (1999, p. 495). </span>

=== === 
===Interest Convergence=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">A. Interest Convergence:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The structural precondition for minority advances is that the AFF benefit the interests of white elites.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Harpalani </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">– Interdisciplinary Studies in Human Development @ U. Penn - 20**04**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Vinay, “Simple Justice or Complex Injustice?: American Racial Dynamics and the Ironies of Brown and Grutter,” Penn GSE //Perspectives on Urban Education//, Volume 3, Number 1, Fall. [Online] http://www.urbanedjournal.org/notes/notes0014.html) Accessed 08.26.10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">One of the central AND I will illustrate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Interest convergence accounts for the material context of the 1960’s civil rights gains – Only our framework consistently explains the ups AND downs of minority empowerment by identifying the implicit bargain between concessions from government elites and the ideological support of black communities.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Delgado </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">– Law Professor @ University of Colorado-Boulder – 20**02**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Richard, “Explaining the Rise and Fall of African American Fortunes: Interest Convergence and Civil Rights Gains,” Review of Mary L. Dudziak, //Cold War Civil Rights: Race and the Image of American Democracy//, Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, Volume 37 [37 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 369], pp. 369-387 at 385-6) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Mary Dudziak's Cold AND establishment's bidding.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">B. Let’s Make A Deal:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Our political economy examines the ballot as a moment of interest convergence – between the 1AC and the structures of white supremacy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The 1AC makes the same bargain as the postwar Civil Right Compromise: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">For the structures of white supremacy, racial equity is not an end in and of itself – The price extracted in exchange for the legitimacy of the plan is accepting the current terms of American nationalism which means that the official antiracism they advocate must remain blind to the linkage between race and the imperialism of American capital.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Melamed </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">– Assistant Professor in African American Studies @ Marquette – 20**06**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jodi, “The Spirit of Neoliberalism: From Racial Liberalism to Multicultural Neoliberalism,” //Social Text// 89, Volume 24, Number 4, Winter, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">pp. 1-25 at 6) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It is important AND a race issue. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">AND, interest convergence acts as a safety valve for white elites to defuse the possibility of black revolution.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Lee </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">– Law Professor @ GW – 20**07**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Cynthia, “Cultural Convergence: Interest Convergence Theory Meets the Cultural Defense?” Arizona Law Review, Vol. 49, No. 4, Winter [49 Ariz. L. Rev. 911], George Washington University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 248; George Washington University Law School Public Law Research Paper No. 248, p. 922. [PDF Online @] http://ssrn.com/abstract=968754) Accessed 08.19.10 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Bell also posited AND end in revolution.”56 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">C. Interest Divergence:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The interest convergence represented by the ballot is temporary at best – Empirically, the implicit bargain that grants empowerment in exchange for minority support of elite policy demands cannot last – The most resistant elements of movements will either be bought off or brutally suppressed, turning the case either way.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Delgado </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">– Law Professor @ University of Colorado-Boulder – 20**02** (Richard, “Explaining the Rise and Fall of African American Fortunes: Interest Convergence and Civil Rights Gains,” Review of Mary L. Dudziak, //Cold War Civil Rights: Race and the Image of American Democracy//, Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, Volume 37 [37 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 369], pp. 369-387 at 376-7) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Dudziak impressively AND was largely lost.</span>






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]