[[toc]]
=Jobs Bill Politics DA= 

==1nc== 
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">A. Uniqueness – (Changes every Tournament)</span>**


**B. LINK**

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">And political capital is key</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sneed September 2011</span> (Toney, US News and World Report Writer, [[http://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2011/09/12/will-congress-pass-obamas-jobs-bill]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thursday evening, President Obama spoke ….. ready to hand him a win?"</span>


**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">C. Impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Jobs bill success saves the economy and leads to Obama reelection</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ullah, 9/11</span>**/11 (Dr. A.H. Jaffor, Ph.D. Research Chemist of Protein Chemistry Phytase Engineering Program, Commodity Utilization Research Unit, USDA-New Orleans, “Obama’s new jobs bill – a tough sale to Republicans,” http://mukto-mona.com/wordpress/?p=1134, BJN)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The president has urged Americans ….. Therefore, let us stay tuned.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Republicans will strike Iran</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Dilek 9-20**-11</span> (Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” [[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/]], jj)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prepare yourself my fellow Americans…..</span><span class="Underline"> wisdom at the ballot boxes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Iran attack will cause a global nuclear war that leads to human extinction</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hirsch</span>** Professor at the University of Califorina at San Diego **<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2008</span>**
(Seymour Hirsch, Professor of physics @ the University of California @ San Diego, 4/10/2k8 http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=HIR20060422&articleId=2317)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Iran is likely to respond to ….. gone before anybody has prevailed.</span>
==2nc Impact Extension== 

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Iraq instability goes global and nuclear</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Jerome </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Corsi ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Harvard PHd, January 8, pg. [[http://worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=53669]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If a broader war breaks </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…..</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> much as World Wars I and II began.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Attack on Israel causes extinction</span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan ‘09</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> - Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea (Dennis Ray Morgan, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In a remarkable website on ….. __and fragile ecosphere as well.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Turns econ – Jobs bill key to the economy – creates nearly a million jobs, prevents recession, and creates momentum going into 2012.</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Berman 9/9</span>**
David, Economists score Obama's jobs bill, September 9, 2011, Globe & Mail Update

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here are several early reactions …..</span><span class="Underline"> and better than I expected.”</span>

==Link – SPS== 

**SPS is unpopular**
Peter J. **__Schubert, ’10__**, Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])

__Space Solar Power will be …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to prepare for the miracle.</span>


**SSP will cost political capital – energy lobbies will fight**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 08</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]) //DH//</span>

//<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Ad Astra: In light of …..</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> limitless energy from the sun</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**Pushing SPS costs political capital despite general support**//
//**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Areospace Daily and Defense Report, 7 </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">(Frank Morring Jr “Space Solar Power Has ‘Fallen Through the Cracks,” Experts Say 08-09-07 LN) </span>// DCM

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">But the problem of gaining ….. going to happen," Hoffert said.</span>



==<span style="line-height: 27px;">AT: </span>Pol Cap Low== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Debt ceiling was a win for Obama, but his political capital is barely sufficient to pass the next issue – debt supercharges the link</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Golub 8-2</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Eric, staff writer for the Washington Post, “Dissecting the debt ceiling budget deal,” [[http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/tygrrrr-express/2011/aug/1/dissecting-debt-ceiling-budget-deal/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">LOS ANGELES, August 2, 2011—</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Now that the paralysis of …..</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> and win the next round.</span>__**

==AT: Winners Win== 

**<span style="color: black;">Winners win doesn’t apply to the aff—even Ornstein says suddenly forcing a bill through doesn’t boost polcap. Our links outweigh because the aff overstretches</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Ornstein 2009</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - resident scholar at AEI, PhD in political science from U Mich (7/8, Norman, "Is Obama Too Weak in Dealing with Congress?", Roll Call)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__even in a wonderfully …..either chamber, you get nowhere.__

**Legislative success __depletes__ capital – doesn’t increase it**
**Purdum, 12/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Award winning journalist who spent 23 years with the NY Times (12/20/10, Todd S., Vanity Affair, “Obama Is Suffering Because of His Achievements, Not Despite Them,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.vanityfair.com/online/daily/2010/12/obama-is-suffering-because-of-his-achievements-not-despite-them.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With this weekend’s decisive Senate ….. by both parties in Washington).</span>



=Weaponization DA= 


==1nc== 

**Weaponization isn’t inevitable, but US weaponization tilts the balance**

**Sharma 10 –** Research Fellow at the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, Colonel (July 2010, Deepak, “Weaponisation of Space and India’s Options”, Journal of Defence Studies, Vol. 4, No. 3, http://www.idsa.in/system/files/jds_4_3_dsharma.pdf) MGM



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most would agree that </span>__space …..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this competition are without merit. </span>



**LINK**



**US weaponization spurs an arms race that decimates international stability and nonproliferation**

**Steinbruner et. al 8** – *Professor of Public Policy at the School of Public Policy at U-Maryland and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies AND **co-chair of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences' Committee on International Security Studies AND** *Executive Director of the Project on Managing the Atom at the Belfer Center (March 2008, John, Carl Kaysen, Martin Malin, Introduction to “Russian and Chinese Responses to U.S. Military Plans in Space”, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/18178/russian_and_chinese_responses_to_us_military_plans_in_space.html) MGM



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent years, Russia and …..</span>__benefit any country's security interests."__





**Space war occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**

**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>



__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons ….. destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__



==Impact - Bioweapons== 



**<span style="color: black;">Space war also causes biological weapons use which spreads and causes extinction</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Ochs 02</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>]</span>



__<span style="color: black;">Of all the weapons of …..</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> the highest of all crimes.</span>



==Turns Case - Solvency== 



**<span style="color: black;">The aff can’t win an external impact – a space war will render all of space unusable for thousands of years</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Forden, 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">If the short-term military …..</span>__<span style="color: black;">hundreds to thousands of years</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.14</span>



==Uniqueness Extension== 



**<span style="color: black;">Space hasn’t been weaponized yet</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Harrison et. al 9</span>** <span style="color: black;">– *Professor in Political Science at the U. S. Air Force Academy and director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies AND **Assistant Professor, Deputy Director at the Center for Space and Defense Studies AND** *Senior Fellow at the CSIS, PhD in IR (Summer 2009, Roger, Deron Jackson, Collins Shackelford, “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk”, Space and Defense, Vol. 3, No. 1, Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf]]</span>) MGM</span>



__<span style="color: black;">Some would argue that this …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> comments on it become available.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Space is militarized but not weaponized – the aff crosses a critical threshold</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Krepon et al, 11</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>

<span style="color: black;">Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">While debates over spacepower and …..</span>__<span style="color: black;">favorable to the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">nited</span> __<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Russia won’t weaponize now, but US weaponization will push them to cross the threshold</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Peoples 8</span>** <span style="color: black;">– Lecturer in International Relations School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, PhD (12/2/2008, Columba, “Assuming the Inevitable? Policy Perspectives on the Weaponization of Outer Space”, Contemporary Security Policy, Vol. 29, Is. 3) MGM</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">There are other signs, however, …..</span>__<span style="color: black;">the prospect of competitive cycle.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">69</span>



==AT: X-37B== 



**<span style="color: black;">China’s anger has been tempered by status quo diplomacy – the X-37B didn’t surprise them</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Brown 10</span>** <span style="color: black;">– Satellite Journalist – (Peter, “China has good reason to stay quiet,” 5-2, Asia Times, <span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LE04Ad02.html]]</span>)</span>



<span style="color: black;">China could easily put the</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">….. could precipitate a unwanted war."</span>





==SPS Links== 



**SPS are space weapons that will generate the perception of US weaponization**

**Deudney, 84** – senior researcher at the Worldwatch Institute (Daniel, “Unlocking Space,” Foreign Policy, No. 53 (Winter, 1983-1984), JSTOR)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A militarily neutral cosmos and ….. flare disastrously out of control.</span>



==China Co-Op Links== 





**Cooperation with China causes widespread space weaponization**

**Sterner 9** (Eric, Eric R. Sterner is a fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He held senior staff positions on the House Armed Services and Science committees, served in the Defense Dept. and was NASA associate deputy administrator for policy and planning, Viewpoint: Be Wary Of China Space Ties, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/Vwpt112309.xml&headline=U.S.%20Wary%20Of%20Space%20Cooperation%20With%20China]], 11/20/9, MM)







<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, </span>__there are ample reasons__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. of mass destruction]-related </span>__proliferation activities__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>



**Plan is not coop, it just gives china our tech**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chang, ’09</span>**[Gordon G. Chang, lawyer and author of //The Coming Collapse of China//, “The space arms race begins”, 11/6/09, http://www.forbes.com/2009/11/05/space-arms-race-china-united-states-opinions-columnists-gordon-g-chang.html]



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States, therefore, will …..</span> the high ground of space<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Lack of transparency destroys any reciprocity in cooperation**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Seedhouse, ’10</span>**[Erik Seedhouse, Aerospace scientist and fellow of British Interplanetary Society, The New Space Race, 2010, http://www.springerlink.com/content/978-1-4419-0880-3#section=685117&page=3&locus=69]

<span class="Underline">Transparency refers to a condition …..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will remain slim to non-existent. </span>


=Spending DA= 

==1nc== 



**<span style="color: black;">The Debt Deal Super Committee compromise coming now to create deficit reduction – multiple structural factors make it likely, but new partisan fights, specifically over lobbies, can derail it </span>**



**<span style="color: black;"> Ragusa, ’9-8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [9/8/11, Jordan Ragusa, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee”, http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/, EM)</span>



__<span style="color: black;">The Joint Select Committee on Deficit </span>____<span style="color: black;">….. the prior forces.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Stay tuned…</span>







**<span style="color: black;">The plan would spark that – any new additional spending has to go through the super committee process – guarantees partisan fights on finding cuts</span>**



**<span style="color: black;"> Suderman, ‘8-17</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter Suderman, August 17, 2011, “Would It Be Better to Pull the Debt-Deal Trigger?”,http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the, EM)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> In large part, that’s because ….. tough enough as it is.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Space policy makes the magnitude of our link argument huge – finding funds for space policy creates fights – competing priorities make it difficult</span>**



<span style="color: black;"> **Handberg, 11** - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]] EM)</span>



__<span style="color: black;">The US space program remained focused</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, ….. ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Failure to come up with a compromise destroys hegemony and causes global nuclear war – defense spending is key to deter China and Iran, protect sea lanes, solve terrorism and North Korean War</span>**



**<span style="color: black;"> O’Hanlon 9/13/</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">11 [Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, [[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx?rssid=LatestFromBrookings&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopfeeds%2FLatestFromBrookings+%28Brookings%3A+Latest+From+Brookings%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]] EM)</span>



<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Most worrisome is the default ….. </span>__<span style="color: black;">strategy for the United States.</span>__



==Turns Warming== 

**Turns warming – tech**

**Freedman, ‘8** – Andrew, environmental journalist and policy analyst (10/20/08. Washington Post. [[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2008/10/will_the_climate_benefit_from.html]])



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, It's quite possible that </span>__…..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> enact tough new </span>__emissions standards__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



==Turns Heg== 



**The economy is key to heg – military strength, international perception, and domestic isolationism**

**Morgan, ‘8** – Iwan Morgan is Professor of US Studies and Head of US Programmes at the Institute for the Study of the Americas [ISA]. He was previously Professor of Modern American History and Head of Department of Politics and Modern History at London Guildhall University and Professor of American Governance at London Metropolitan University (“Bush on the Rocks” International Politics (2008) 45, 92–112. [[http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v45/n1/full/8800147a.html]])



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In order to contextualize the ….. to enhance America's soft power. </span>



==Turns Solvency== 



**Growth and fiscal discipline are key to space exploration and development**

**Elhefnawy, ‘8** – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review (“Economic growth and space development over the long haul”. June 23. The Space Review. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1156/1|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1220/1]])



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No less important is the </span>__….. long-run demands of space flight.__



==Impact – Russia War== 

**Economic downturn collapse Russian restraint, unleashing a winner-take-all war and extinction.**

**Nyquist 8** [J.R., a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and author of 'Origins of the Fourth World War.', “Financial Collapse and Destructive War”, September 19, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2008/0919.html]



__If the United States went ….. oblivious. They are utterly unprepared.__









==Link Extension== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The government is looking to cut Space funding now- plan is a step in the opposite direction</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Handberg 11</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida. “The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning? Facing the shuttle’s demise and the future,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1 EM)</span>






<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The more </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">recent events surrounding …..</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 2012 presidential and congressional elections.</span>



**New Spending destroys fiscal discipline**

**Hurt 2-14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11 [Robert Hurt, Virginia Congressman, “Charting A New Course Of Fiscal Discipline And Restraint,” February 14, 2011, [[http://virginiafifthwatchdog.com/2011/02/charting-a-new-course-of-fiscal-discipline-and-restraint/]]]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the Administration’s initial suggestions …… economic outlook of our country.</span>__</span>



==AT: Won’t Stop Spending== 



**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Massive cuts coming.</span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Fox News 5/16</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Chad Pergram, 5/16/11, "An Unenviable Choice: Disaster Relief Versus Spending Cuts", http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/05/17/unenviable-choice-disaster-relief-versus-spending-cuts)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the work on </span>the ….. bills and make responsible cuts<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No new spending – house GOP leader</span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Atlantic 5/10/11</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Derek Thompson, 5/10/11, "Boehner Is Beating Democrats in the Debt Ceiling Game", http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/05/boehner-is-beating-democrats-in-the-debt-ceiling-game/238669/) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like any well-crafted ….. of a bond market freakout.</span>