[[toc]]
=Jackson-Vanik (Politics)= 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jackson-Vanik repeal will pass but it’ll be difficult and PC is key</span>
**__Inside U.S. Trade 2-10__** (“RUSSIA COALITION GEARS UP FOR PERMANENT MFN VOTE, SEEKS NEW MEMBERS.” Factiva)
<span class="Underline">The Coalition for </span>U.S.-Russia ...<span class="Underline">which was extremely controversial. </span>

<LINK>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama’s PC is key</span>
**__Moscow Times 12-14__** (“Russia in WTO: U.S. Congress Not Ready For Russian WTO Entry” http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/russia-in-wto-us-congress-not-ready-for-russian-wto-entry/449843.html#ixzz1giqgHeOP)
Members of the World Trade Organization ... administration of President Bill Clinton.

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jackson-Vanik repeal key to Russian relations and the US economy</span>
**__Miller 11__** (Jacqueline McLaren, senior associate at the EastWest Institute. “The WTO and the Reset.” http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset)
The <span class="Underline">Jackson-Vanik</span> amendment to... then hurt the U.S. economy.

Economic collapse would end U.S. leadership and start multiple international wars.
Aaron **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg</span>__**, Professor of politics at Witherspoon Institute, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__**Gabriel **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenfeld</span>__**, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, 10/28/20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>__**, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then there are the dolorous ...</span> as the one we now face.

=Space Mil= 
A. US is pursuing multilateral cooperation in all facets of space- prefer our evidence
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DOS 11/17</span>** (U.S. Department of State. “Leading with Diplomacy to Strengthen Stability in Space.” http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/177306.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Orbital Debris Mitigation One </span>__issue...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nations to begin similar dialogues. </span>

B. <LINK>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">C. Space weaponization causes prolif, decreases relations, kills the environment, and causes terrorism, leading to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon 4,</span>** s co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, in ‘4
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, Safeguarding Space for All: Security and Peaceful Uses—Conference Report, 25–26 March 2004, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), 2005]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The United States and the international ... against the weaponization of space.</span>