[[toc]]
Cite Requests
Aff: Linda Wang ([[mailto:lindaw2k@gmail.com|lindaw2k@gmail.com]])
Neg: Satveer Kler ([[mailto:sunny5133@gmail.com|sunny5133@gmail.com]])
=Affirmative= 
=Note= 
The only tournament left that we will be attending together is CFLs. We probably aren't even going to be reading this aff so everything on here is pretty much irrelevant now.
===<span style="font-size: 16px;">Observation 1 is the UFO Taboo</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Modern governmentality perpetuates the UFO taboo and makes no effort to validate the conception of UFO subjectivity. The extraterrestrial has been posited as a non-object in the mind of modern governmentality that must be actively ignored to protect the legitimacy of anthropocentric sovereignty. This is due to a UFO taboo that marginalizes ET discourse in an attempt to avoid the question of their existence.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 2008</span> (Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, Duvall is a professor of political science at U. of Minnesota, Wendt is a constructivist IR Professor at Ohio State U., June 11 2008, Political Theory, Vol. 36, No. 4, “Sovereignty and the UFO,” [[http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/36/4/607]])

On March 30-31, 1990, two Belgium f-16s were scrambled to intercept a large...We are saying they cannot ask the question.

===Observation 2 is Anthropocentric Sovereignty=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Our most basic understanding of humanity is derived from an anthropological machine which constructs understandings of humanity against understandings of animality. These understandings of animality serve as both constitutive outside and inside which produces and maintains a hierarchal categorization of humanity. The very act of definition necessarily submits a third phantom category of life – bare life, which by its own subjugation connects and sustains the categories of human and animal. </span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">Only through an understanding of this construction can we hope to stop this form of violence by the sovereign. [Gendered Language modifications made]</span>**
**__Oliver__**, W. Alton Jones Chair of Philosophy and Professor of Women's Studies at Vanderbilt University, **__07__** [Kelly, //PhaenEx// 2, no. 2 (fall/winter 2007): 1-23; Stopping the Anthropological Machine: Agamben with Heidegger and Merleau-Ponty]

In //The Open,// Giorgio Agamben diagnoses the history of both science and history as part of what he calls...who are considered less than human, can we hope to stop it.


**Under anthropocentric sovereignty, the concentration camp and the slaughterhouse become indistinguishable, two states of exception that operate based on the ability of individuals to render others, be they human or animal, as bare life – deserving nothing short of extermination. The fundamental instability of the human as a category of life, and subsequently its dependence on the animal as a stable category of existence naturalizes a form of biopolitical control that authorizes insidious forms of violence. And, these forms of violence are inevitable unless the fundamental cracks within the assumed coherence of anthropocentric sovereignty are problematized. [Gendered Language modifications made]**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10px;">Dinesh</span> **__Wadiwel__**, <span style="font-size: 10px;">University of Western Sydney</span>, **__04__** <span style="font-size: 10px;">[“Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben Discuss Animal (and Human) Life”, Borderlands Journal, vol. 2, no. 1.]</span></span>
There is a certain humanist line of thinking that suggests that violence is...a la Hitler and concentration camps a la Singer in Patterson 2002:199).

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">When the legitimacy and existence of an entire population is in question, politics become murderous—the entirety of the world is reduced to bare life in an attempt to rid the public sphere of all risk. The only option becomes the extermination of all life. [Gendered Language Modifications made]</span>**
**Duarte****,** professor of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Paraná, **__05__** <span style="font-size: 10px;">[</span>**André,” Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]**


These historic transformations have not only brought more violence to the core of the political...of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.

===Advocacy=== 
**Therefore, we advocate that Unidentified Flying Objects are worthy of scientific inquiry.**
===Observation 3 is Jamming the Anthropological Machine:=== 
**The conceptualization of the UFO presents a triple threat to the legitimacy of anthropocentric sovereignty—physical, ontological, and metaphysical. It is for this reason that modern governmentality chooses to actively ignore the UFO instead of interrogate it. The ability of sovereignty to deny the UFO as worthy of scientific inquiry is precisely the foundation upon which the legitimacy and coherence of anthropocentric sovereignty is based upon.**

**Wendt and Duvall 2008** (Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, Duvall is a professor of political science at U. of Minnesota, Wendt is a constructivist IR Professor at Ohio State U., June 11 2008, Political Theory, Vol. 36, No. 4, “Sovereignty and the UFO,” [[http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/36/4/607]])


If the limits of the governmental regime are exposed, the sovereign generally can be counted on to survey and to securitize the threat...it is to the performative insecurity of modern sovereignty that one must look at first.


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Put Away Your ‘Science Good’ Blocks -Our Call for a Realist Moment reverses the traditional antagonism between science and critical theory by invoking scientific skepticism in response to traditional denial of the potential reality of the UFO.</span>**
**Wendt and Duvall 2008** (Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, Duvall is a professor of political science at U. of Minnesota, Wendt is a constructivist IR Professor at Ohio State U., June 11 2008, Political Theory, Vol. 36, No. 4, “Sovereignty and the UFO,” [[http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/36/4/607]])



If the limits of the governmental regime are exposed, the sovereign generally can be counted on to survey and to securitize the threat...while recognizing that it might ultimatley exceed human grasp.

**Extraterrestrials represent the Achilles’ heel of anthropocentrism. Our framework is one of militant agnosticism – we recognize it is impossible to objectively verify or deny the validity of UFO as reality, but at the same time the very regimes of truth that continually deny the UFO’s existence do so without scientific basis. Agnosticism is an attempt to “see” the UFO within debate, rather than ignoring the existence of anthropocentric sovereignty. We need to lay bare its foundations and affirm a tactical stance that has the potential to problematize them.**
**You have an obligation as an epistemic authority in the round to recognize the scientific merits of the UFO in this round.**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 2008</span> (Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, “Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory. 2008.)



Resistance We have called ours a “critical” theory, in that it rests on a normative assumption...That should surprise us and disturb us all, and cast down on the structure of rule that requires and sustains it.


===Observation 4 is Role of the Ballot=== 
**The ballot signifies your chance to radically reform the debate community. Vote affirmative to begin a subtle mechanism to change how our community functions. This may not happen overnight, but voting affirmative is the only chance you have to reclaim agency in debate. The crises brought on by voting affirmative guarantees massive change.**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10px;">Rebecca</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Bjork</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10px;">, former college debater, coach, and professor in 19</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">93</span> <span style="font-size: 10px;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

While reflecting on my experiences as a woman in academic debate in preparation for this essay, I realized...and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.


=Negative= 
===Heg Bad K=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">American leadership and dominance is collapsing. Revitalizing US leadership has been anything but stabilizing, fueling endless wars and inflaming anti-american sentiment, reproducing the violence it was supposed to protect us from. The affirmative is a call to bring the US back into power. A different strategy of dominance will do nothing to alleviate the structural global violence of US intervention other than satiate our desire to act, reifying faith in imperial control and digging the trench that separates America from the rest of the world even deeper.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hedges 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Chris, Chris Hedges is journalist, author, and war correspondent. Chris Hedges spent nearly two decades as a foreign correspondent in Central America, the Middle East, Africa and the Balkans., “America’s Wars of Self-Destruction” , Truthdig is a website dedicated to bring the truth of US foreign policy to the common people, Nov 17, 2008, [[http://www.truthdig.com/report/print/20081117_americas_wars_of_self_destruction/]] |SK)</span>

War is a poison. It is a poison that nations and troops must at times ingest to ensure their survival...We will either confront reality or plunge headlong into the minefields that lie before us.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The affirmative attempts to recreate American primacy while calling every other nation a roadblock in the path to attend hegemony. The deaths of entire populations no longer matter, as they are only deemed as forks in the path to primacy. Such rhetoric not only legitimizes their deaths, but also proves that we no longer care; the legality of state violence has become a secondary aspect to US hegemony.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Butler 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Judith, Judith Butler is an American post-structuralist philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of feminism, queer theory, political philosophy, and ethics. She is a professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley. She has a Ph.D. in philosophy from Yale University, __Frames of War__, Verso Publications, copyright 2009, pages 46-51 |SK)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10px;">If we take Klein's point that destrucitveness is the problem for the human subject...but it is only on the condition of certain embedded evaluative structures that a life becomes perceivable at all.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hegemony is the opposite of stabilizing - all of our attempts to follow through on our military threat have failed, slaughtering civilians, overstretching our military and exacerbating intra-state violence. The affs endorsement of militaristic dominance is a snake eating its tail- maintaining the macho-fantasy only alienates our allies and forecloses the possibility of cooperation on every major global problem, turning the case.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Slater 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Philip, Philip Slater has an A.B. and Ph. D. from Harvard and taught sociology at Harvard, Brandeis, and UCSC. He was Professor and Chairperson of the Brandeis Sociology Department. He has been a merchant seaman, actor, business consultant, cookie salesman, marriage officiant, and president of a theatre., “Realpolitik vs. Reality”, November 12, 2008, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/philip-slater/realpolitik-vs-reality_b_143312.html]] |SK)</span>


Obama's election offers an opportunity to reconsider the utility of realpolitik, the guiding principle of American foreign policy for the past sixty years...not like hyperactive ten-year-old boys living in comic-book dreams of superheros.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">We control the internal link to war and extinction- Warfare happens when states believe their vulnerability can be assuaged, and their drives to gain primacy are predictably effective. This happens through ideological mystification- military intervention is never stabilizing because it cannot map out nor control the socio-political realities of its object- every US war of occupation proves our argument.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke 06 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Anthony, Anthony Burke is a Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW., “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, John Hopkins University Press., 2006, [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html]], MUSE |SK) </span>

This essay first describes the ontology of the national security state...making them betray not only commitments but their own substance'.

**Alt Text: Reject the hegemonic discourse of the 1AC.**
**Fiat is an imaginary concept whereas discourse has the true effects of physical change within this debate.**
**Violence sustains itself through a constant reiteration of sovereignty and control. A refusal to act enforces the realization that fueling the war machine cannot protect us, and endangers global populations who we are inevitably dependent on.**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Butler 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Judith, Judith Butler is an American post-structuralist philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of feminism, queer theory, political philosophy, and ethics. She is a professor in the Rhetoric and Comparative Literature departments at the University of California, Berkeley. She has a Ph.D. in philosophy from Yale University, __Frames of War__, Verso Publications, copyright 2009, pages 178-184 |SK)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10px;">State violence often articulates itself through the positing of the sovereign subject...especially when it refuses and breaks the frames by war is wrought time and again.</span>