[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==China Affirmative--EINFL/Homewood-Flossmoor== 

===Contention 1: China Threat=== 
**China threat discourse is created by the military-industrial complex, repeated by a compliant media. Any Chinese space weapons program is in response to US policy.** 

Foust ‘8 
Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, The Space Review, 3/3/08, China and the US: space race or miscommunication?, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1075/1 

Those in the US who are concerned … a lot of mistrust and bad feelings.” 

**The consequence of these misperceptions is counterproductive policies like the Wolf amendment, which bans cooperation with China on space issues and threatens the relationship of two incredibly powerful states** 

Kulacki 6/23  
Gregory, senior analyst and China Project manager for the Union of Concerned Scientists, Nature 474, 444–445 (23 June 2011) 

Attempts to isolate the Chinese space … suspicions created by the legacy of this affair. 

**Indeed, the second half of the twentieth century has been the story of paranoia over China perpetuated to justify power politics and the military-industrial complex. This cycle of enemy creation results in financial disaster and the sacrificial destruction of millions.** 

Clark 6  
(No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm).  

For as long as I have been in the China-watching business … have been spent. And millions have died. 

**Why is the American military-industrial complex obsessed with Chinese space militarization? Their knowledge of China is produced without reference to its epistemological basis, and fails to describe the status quo objectively, instead self-starting a cycle of fulfilled prophecies of rising tensions.** 

Pan 4  
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations at Australian National University (June-July 2004, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political”) 

More specifically, I want to argue …, oriental studies, political science, and international relations.*  

**Accordingly, China’s military space programs are countermeasures to US military posture, spurring a costly arms race—changing US space policy can stop the security dilemma cycle.** 

Zhang 11 
Baohui Zhang, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, JSTOR, 2011, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011) (pp. 311-332) 

China’s military space program and its … the U.S. could slow the momentum toward a space arms race.  

**China threat discourse makes war between the two countries inevitable and emboldens nationalists and hardliners in China. We must reject this kind of security discourse to allow better ways of thinking about China in the policy realm.**  

Pan 4  
(Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives 2004, p. 325-326) 

I have argued above that the "China threat" … dangerous ways of interpreting and debating China might become possible. 

**China is just one part in a security industry that manufactures low probability threats and worst case scenarios in order to build up the state’s defenses and defend its territory** 

Lipschutz 98  
[Ronnie, prof of politics at UC Santa Cruz, “Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End,” On Security, ed. Ronnie Lipschutz, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/index.html] 

What then, is the form and content of … notion of security, the speech act. 

**Securitization ensures total war and genocide - representations of extraordinary risks ensures astonishing violence** 

Friis 2k 
Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2] 

The problem with societal securitization …where truth is never questioned.  

**“Threats real” is not responsive – hardline arguments miss that the only way to eliminate a threat is to understand from whence it came. Deconstructing threats is try or die.** 

Mack 91 
(John E., MD in Psychiatry, Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59) 

The threat of nuclear annihilation … will with anything approaching objectivity.” 

**China threat discourse is hyped up to justify bases overseas and massive military budgets.** 

Hallinan 11 
Conn, columnist for Foreign Policy in Focus, 27 August, Russia Today http://rt.com/news/china-military-pentagon-report-271/ 

A new Pentagon report warns … military footprint in Asia.” 

**Military bases and spending result in an constant war against women, the impoverished, and the environment—resulting in an ongoing genocide and ecocide.** 
Cuomo 96  
(Chris J. Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women's Studies at the University of Georgia, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Hypatia 11.4 nb, pp. 31-48) 

Philosophical attention to war has typically …f contemporary military institutions and practices.  

**In addition—the creation of security threats is a technology of power—security is used as a threat to discipline the population into a conformity which facilitates torture and violence. The opposite of insecurity is not to secure but to emancipate.** 

Neocleous 8 
Mark Neocleous, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, 08 (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 4-6 Published 2008) 

But what if at the heart of … anti-disciplinary. It is a work of critique.  

===Plan=== 
**Therefore, we advocate that the United States federal government should increase its exploration of Mars via President Obama’s proposal for bilateral civil space cooperation with the People’s Republic of China.**  

===Solvency=== 
**Obama’s Mars plan co-operates with China- offers them the chance to join** 

Svitak 11 
Svitak, Space News, 5/4/11 (Amy, Space News staff writer, “China Viewed as Potential U.S. Partner in Future Mars Exploration”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html, accessed 7/1/11)  

WASHINGTON — U.S. President Barack Obama … with them and with others.”  

**China has the tech to co-operate and they’ll ask for inclusion** 

Selding, 4-14-11 gender modified 
Peter B. de, Space News, “Chinese Government Official Urges U.S.-Chinese Space Cooperation,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html 

A top Chinese government space official on … applications including disaster monitoring and management. 


**Mars cooperation spills over- leads to long term ties that solve tensions** 

Rutkowski 8 
Rutkowski, 2008, Ryan, master's student studying international economics at Johns Hopkins University - Nanjing University Center for Chinese-American Studies, “The Prospect of US – China Collaboration for Manned-Space Exploration,” http://mysite.verizon.net/ryan.rutkowski/Blog/US-China%20Space%20cooperation.pdf 

However, the continued reluctance to pursue … our planet, solar system, and worlds beyond.  

**Long term relations are sustainable in every other arena- space competition is the only place for deterioration** 
Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)  

On the surface, it may seem as … incompatible, uncompromising realm is outer space. 

**Uncertainty over space cooperation creates zero-sum space conflict. Close cooperation reassures both sides and avoids conflict.** 

Blair and Yali 8  
President of the World Security Institute, Project Director at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment and Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution (“The Space Security Dilemma,” [[http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/cs2-editorsnotes.pdf]])  

A dialogue of the deaf has …-level talks about the Bush Moon-Mars Initiative. 

**But changing policy alone cannot succeed—only rejecting the production of “China Threat” discourse and its flawed epistemology and embracing insecurity and unpredictability can break the cycle.** 

Pan 4  
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations at Australian National University (June-July 2004, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political”) 

And yet, the real problem … and debating China might become possible. 

**The power of security relies on the assent of those oppressed—the choice of the ballot is to accept or reject the securitized speech act directed at China - it is only securitized if you accept their speech act. Side constraint for rejecting securitization.** 
Saltera ‘8  
(Securitization and desecuritization: a dramaturgical analysis of the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Mark B Saltera School of Politics, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1N 6N5, 2008 

This model of settings for securitizing moves fits cleanly … policy making discourse' (Floyd 2007: 336).  

**Understanding the discourse we use to understand the world is a prerequisite to policymaking—policy change can only take place when discursive dynamics are also changed through the slow transformation of cultural values. The affirmative is that transversal dissent.** 

Bleiker 2000  
[Roland, Prof of International Relations, Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics, p. 183-4] 

While the previous chapter explained … elusive to be apprehended by the human mind? 

**And, the Aff’s speech act of dissenting to China threat rhetoric can create solidarity in other countries to create international change—example is anti-apartheid campaign.** 

Marsh 95  
(Pearl-Alice, “Grassroots Statecraft and Citizens' Challenges to U.S. National Security Policy,” in On Security, R. Lipschutz, ed. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html 

One of the goals of this volume is to better understand … images to influence national security policies. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html#note10|10]]  

**Security relies on our complicity in its construction—refuse to be controlled by fear and it can be defeated.**  

Burke ‘2  
(Anthony Burke, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland. Alternatives 27, 2002. Aporias of Security.by Anthony Burke 

Refusing Security It is perhaps easy to become …, and what its shimmering possi­bilities might be. 

==Asteroid Affirmative--New Trier== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention One—Near Earth Objects</span>
**Recent studies are incomplete and do not assure Earth’s safety from asteroids.**
**Harwood 9/29**
William Harwood 9-29-11 (writer for CBS News. “Nasa: Most Cataclysmic Asteroids Found.” http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/09/29/scitech/main20113479.shtml. 9-30-11)
Analysis of **__data__** collected by a NASA … <span style="font-size: 6pt;">doubt that Bapstistina was the dinosaur killer.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ground based telescopes fail</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NRC 2010</span>**
(National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
__Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing … as possible__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, especially imminent impactors.</span>
**Risk of a strike is high**
**Easterbrook ‘8**
(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)
<span class="drop">B</span>reakthrough ideas have a way of seeming … __entire human race is riding on the plane.”__
**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
**Verschuur 96**
(Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> In the past few years, the comet impact …</span> __limitation of human nature that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Probability and magnitude are 100 percent**
**Kunich ’97**
(John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Irrespective of the ultimate resolution of these … </span>military, including the United States Air Force.
**The impact is extinction**
**McGuire 2**
(Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared … little about a new comet heading in our direction.
**No impact can outweigh this—nothing else threatens extinction**
**McGuire 2**
(Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Probably the only piece of good news that can be … </span> __anything__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Maybe now is the right time to start.</span>
**Even a small NEO strike outweighs nuclear war**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
First I'd like to thank you for the invitation …__<span class="term">nuclear</span> weapon in the__ current __U.S. <span class="term">nuclear</span> arsenal.__

**Small NEO could kill the planet via ozone depletion**
**MacCracken ‘7**
(Michael C., fellow at the Climate Institute, Ch. 16: The Climatic Effects of Asteroid and Comet Impacts: Consequences for an Increasingly Interconnected Society, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)
__During and following an impact, nitric …__ from the largest impacts appears quite plausible.
**Ozone depletion causes complete extinction**
**Greenpeace ‘95**
(Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A GREENPEACE REPORT with contributions from OZONE ACTION -- http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)
When chemists Sherwood Rowland and … __**are literally the continuation of life on earth.**__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Two—the Nuclear Option</span>
**NASA is committing the US into a nuclear-only deflection system that’s doomed to fail**
**Chapman ‘6**
<Clark, Senior Scientist, Southwest Research Institute Dept. of Space Studies, Boulder CO and Member of the Board, B612 Foundation, Critique of "2006 Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Study: Final Report" Published 28 Dec. 2006 by NASA Hq. Program Analysis & Evaluation Office, http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/NASA-CritChap.doc>
Furthermore, __the Report takes a__ totally __… for all other deflection options!__ [This absurd argument is "developed" in the middle paragraph of pg. 61.].)

**Nuclear option will fail, but the public will demand nuclear weapons unless we develop other tech**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, <span style="color: black;">Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, </span>Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc)
The nuclear explosive options will … most fragile, can reliably be used.
**Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse**
**Lu ‘4**
(Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
Why does the <span class="term">__asteroid__</span> need … the purposes of resource utilization.
**Fragmentation prevents other forms of deflection**
**Chapman ‘3**
(Clark, scientist at the [[@http://www.swri.edu/default.htm|Southwest Research Institute]]'s Department of Space Studies, Great Impact Debates, Collision Course for Earth 3/03 [[@http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_debate&task=detail&id=389]])
Clark Chapman: The advantage __of …__ short, it is a very bad idea.
**Fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction**
**Verschurr ‘96**
(Gerrit, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]] of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics|physics]] for the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Memphis|U of Memphis]], //Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets//, pg. 40)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Did consider are potential risk … </span>__transformed into a desolate and barren rock__.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Thus the plan—</span>
The United States federal government should substantially increase space-based Near Earth Object detection technologies and non-nuclear asteroid deflection capabilities.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Three—Solvency</span>
**U.S. unilateral action solves best**
**Barrett ‘6**
(Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527, lexis)
But can we expect that this public good //…// obligation to pay their fair share.

**US action is key—**
**Access to observatories**
**Fortuna 7**
(“H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(1) </span>__Arecibo Observatory is the world's … potential hazards posed by near-Earth objects__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>
**NASA is key**
**NAC 10**
(“Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense,” Oct 6, http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2010-NASAAdvisoryCouncilOnPlanetaryDefense.pdf)
__For more than a decade, NASA … to divert a NEO threatening an impact__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

**Use of multiple different deflection capabilities is key to solve**
**IAA ‘9**
(International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)
The probability of successfully … and effects of the missions as they unfold.
**Early warning means deflection tech will be ready in time**
**British National Space Centre ‘2k**
(British National Space Centre, Report of the Task Force on Potentially Hazardous Near Earth Objects, http://www.spacecentre.co.uk/neo/report.html)
A number of possible mechanisms …<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> on an international basis to look into the practical possibilities of deflection.</span>
**Mirrors solve**
**Engineer ‘7**
(The Engineer, The Big Picture: Mirrored Army to Protect Earth, 10-15, lexis)
A fleet of satellites carrying …<span style="font-size: 6pt;">,</span> we'd need 10 satellites and 200 days.'
**Kinetic impactor solves**
**Koenig & Chyba<span style="color: black;"> ‘7</span>**
(Jesse D. and Christopher F., SpaceDev Inc and Department of Astrophysical Sciences and Program on Science and Global Security, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Impact Deflection of Potentially Hazardous Asteroids Using Current Launch Vehicles, http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/S2-3--Koenig-Paper.pdf)
Nuclear explosions, and a wide variety of … least costly, least risky, and fastest to effect.
**Direct push solves**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, <span style="color: black;">Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, </span>Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 [[http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc]])
Finally __there is the concept of the direct push__, …<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> testimony before the US Senate, the National Academy of</span>
**Deflection technologies can work together**
**Schweickart ‘7**
(Rusty, former astronaut head of B612 Foundation, The Sky Is Falling. Really. March 16, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/16/opinion/16schweickart.html?_r=1)
The good news is that scientists … fine-tune its new trajectory to our liking.

===Contention Four—Impact Calculus=== 
**Extinction by asteroid is categorically different from any other impact**
**Matheny ‘7**
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, v27n5)
Even if extinction events are … threaten 99% of humanity and those that threaten 100%.

**Prioritize magnitude over timeframe**
**Tonn 4**
(2004, Bruce, PhD, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108)
Why tackle 1000 years and not shorter, … of comprehensive, challenging and integrated global plans.
**Probability is probably a bad framework for impact calculus**
**Barbee 9**
<span style="color: black;">(4/1, Brent W., Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with Emergent Space Technologies, of Aerospace Engineering at UMaryland, “Planetary Defense”,http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm) </span>
**__It is generally accepted that statistics … decision-making process for defense against NEOs.__**

**Only asteroids = extinction**
**Steel 2**
Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf pg. 93)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(8) Just because there are more significant problems …</span> would then supplant our Earthly concerns.
**Any risk of extinction outweighs any non-existential impact**
**Bostrum 11**
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Online at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]]</span>,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks …</span> __the direct benefit of such an action__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[13]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Five—No Disad Impact</span>
**Major war won’t happen**
**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**
**Deudney et al 9**
<span style="color: black;">professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>
This bleak outlook is based on an … the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.

**b.) Trends Prove**
**Mueller 09**
<span style="color: black;">(professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:An Assessment”, http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]</span>
THE PRESENT CONDITION **__No matter how … to exist as a substantial phenomenon.__**

**Second, it won’t escalate**
**Robinson 01**
<span style="color: black;">President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm)</span>
Let me then state my most … a stable and peaceful world.
**Best data proves nuclear war cannot cause nuclear winter**
**Ball ‘6**
(Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)
__I argued vigorously with__ Sagan about __… **likelihood**__, as to underestimate them (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties).
**A worst-case nuclear war would be terrible but only kill part of the world’s population. Claims otherwise are politically motivated.**
**Martin 83**
(The Fate of Extinction Arguments, 1983, Brian Martin, Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, Australia, http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/83fea.html)phol
According to the published scientific … fear-mongering approach and a link with political reformism.

**Our impact and solvency claims are scientific questions not social construction—prefer falsifiable argumentation in the case of asteroid deflection, the impact is extinction.**
**Yudkowsky 6**
(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in //Global Catastrophic Risks//, August 31)
__Every true idea which discomforts you will … should finally center on testable real-world assertions. Do not take your eye off the ball__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
**Reject critiques that refuse the same falsifiable review our evidence goes through – disproves their methodology, destroys academic debate, and causes extinction.**
**Coyne 6**
Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp.Emeryville,CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential … we desperately need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.</span>
**Asteroid deflection attempts are inevitable but they will fail without early warning**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NRC 10</span>**
<span class="Underline">(National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In contrast to other known natural …</span> __damaging impact event as feasible__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

==Asteroid Affirmative--Valley== 
===Contention One—Near Earth Objects=== 
**Risk of a strike is high**
**Easterbrook ‘8**
(Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)
Breakthrough ideas have a way of seeming … race is riding on the plane.”

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NRC 2010</span>**</span>
(National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842)

Ground-based telescopes have … population as possible, especially imminent impactors.

**Detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs**
**Jones ‘8**
(Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroid deflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)
AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey searches … preparation, planning, and timely decision-making.
**Probability and magnitude are 100 percent**
**Kunich ’97**
(John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)
Irrespective of the ultimate resolution of these … by the military, including the United States Air Force.

**Even a small NEO strike outweighs nuclear war**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
First I'd like to thank you for the … weapon in the current U.S. nuclear arsenal.


**Small NEO could kill the planet via ozone depletion**
**MacCracken ‘7**
(Michael C., fellow at the Climate Institute, Ch. 16: The Climatic Effects of Asteroid and Comet Impacts: Consequences for an Increasingly Interconnected Society, in Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach, SpringLink)
During and following an impact, nitric … That mass extinctions would result from the largest impacts appears quite plausible.

**Ozone depletion causes complete extinction**
**Greenpeace ‘95**
(Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A GREENPEACE REPORT with contributions from OZONE ACTION -- http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)
When chemists Sherwood Rowland … so quickly - the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth.
**Extinction is categorically different from any other impact—even if they win a nuclear war kills 99 percent of the population, an asteroid strike still outweighs by an order of magnitude**
**Matheny ‘7**
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)
Even if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.


**Small Strikes triggers accidental nuclear war**
**Worden ‘2**
(Brigadier General Simon P., Hearings on the threat of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, House Committee on Science, October 3, 2002. http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/gov_threat_2002.cfm)
Two and a half months ago, Pakistan … well understood by all to be just what they are.

===**Plan**=== 
**Thus the plan—The United States federal government should substantially increase space-based Near Earth Object detection technologies and non-nuclear asteroid deflection capabilities.**
===Contention Two—Solvency=== 
**The world is awaiting America’s lead**
**France ‘2k**
(Martin, Lt. Colonel, USAF, “Planetary Defense: Eliminating the Giggle Factor, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apje.html|Air & Space Power Journal]], http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/france2.html)
A key component of the Shoemaker … serves to relay NEO identification to concerned groups and fellow participants.

**U.S. unilateral action solves best**
**Barrett ‘6**
(Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527, lexis)
But can we expect that this public good … the burden and other countries would have recognized their obligation to pay their fair share.

**NASA is committing the US into a nuclear-only deflection system that’s doomed to fail**
**Chapman ‘6**
<Clark, Senior Scientist, Southwest Research Institute Dept. of Space Studies, Boulder CO and Member of the Board, B612 Foundation, Critique of "2006 Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Study: Final Report" Published 28 Dec. 2006 by NASA Hq. Program Analysis & Evaluation Office, http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/NASA-CritChap.doc>
Furthermore, the Report takes a … all other deflection options!

**Nuclear option will fail, but the public will demand nuclear weapons unless we develop other tech**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc)
The nuclear explosive options will all … the most fragile, can reliably be used.

**Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse**
**Lu ‘4**
(Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
Why does the asteroid need to be … other asteroids for the purposes of resource utilization.

**Even dust fragments cause an explosion on Earth**
**Nemchinov et al. ‘8**
(Ivan Nemchinov, Valery Shuvalov, & Vladmir Svetsov, Institute for Dynamics of Geospheres, Russian Academy of Sciences, “Main Factors of Hazards Due to Comets and Asteroids,” in Catastrophic Events Caused by Cosmic Objects, pg 58-59)
If the NEO cannot be deflected away … for obtaining such data for small cosmic objects.

**Fragmentation prevents other forms of deflection**
**Chapman ‘3**
(Clark, scientist at the Southwest Research Institute's Department of Space Studies, Great Impact Debates, Collision Course for Earth 3/03 [[@http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_debate&task=detail&id=389]])
Clark Chapman: The advantage of using nuclear … next. In short, it is a very bad idea.

**Fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction**
**Verschurr ‘96**
(Gerrit, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]] of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics|physics]] for the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Memphis|U of Memphis]], Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets, pg. 40)
Did consider are potential .. into a desolate and barren rock.

**Use of multiple different deflection capabilities is key to solve**
**IAA ‘9**
(International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
[[@http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]])
The probability of successfully … the missions as they unfold.

**Early warning means deflection tech will be ready in time**
**British National Space Centre ‘2k**
(British National Space Centre, Report of the Task Force on Potentially Hazardous Near Earth Objects, http://www.spacecentre.co.uk/neo/report.html)
A number of possible mechanisms have … into the practical possibilities of deflection.

**Mirrors solve**
**Engineer ‘7**
(The Engineer, The Big Picture: Mirrored Army to Protect Earth, 10-15, lexis)
A fleet of satellites carrying large … 'But if we go up to 20m, we'd need 10 satellites and 200 days.'

**Kinetic impactor solves**
**Koenig & Chyba ‘7**
(Jesse D. and Christopher F., SpaceDev Inc and Department of Astrophysical Sciences and Program on Science and Global Security, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Impact Deflection of Potentially Hazardous Asteroids Using Current Launch Vehicles, http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/S2-3--Koenig-Paper.pdf)
Nuclear explosions, and a wide variety … least risky, and fastest to effect.

**Direct push solves**
**Schweickart ‘4**
(Russell, Chair of the B612 Foundation, former astronaut, Executive Vice President of CTA Commercial Systems, Inc. and Director of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) Systems and research, and scientist at the Experimental Astronomy Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), “Asteroid Deflection; Hopes and Fears,” Aug., Presented at the World Federation of Scientists Workshop on Planetary Emergencies, Erice, Sicily, August 2004 http://www.b612foundation.org/papers/Asteroid_Deflection.doc)
Finally there is the concept of …before the US Senate, the National Academy of

**Deflection technologies can work together**
**Schweickart ‘7**
(Rusty, former astronaut head of B612 Foundation, The Sky Is Falling. Really. March 16, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/16/opinion/16schweickart.html?_r=1]])
The good news is that … its new trajectory to our liking.

===Contention Three—No Disad Impact=== 
**Major war won’t happen**

**a.) Nuclear weapons, and economics**


Deudney et al 9
<span style="color: black;">professor of political science at John Hopkins (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs,http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>

This bleak outlook is based … revivalists acknowledge.

**b.) Trends Prove**

**Mueller 09**
(professor of political science at Ohio State University, [John, Political Science Quarterly, “War Has Almost Ceased to Exist:An Assessment”, http://tigger.uic.edu/~bvaler/Mueller%20War%20Dead.pdf]

THE PRESENT CONDITION No matter how … of ceasing to exist as a substantial phenomenon.

**Second, it won’t escalate**

**Robinson 01**
President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command (Paul, March 22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm)

Let me then state … and maintain a stable and peaceful world.

**Best data proves nuclear war cannot cause nuclear winter**
**Ball ‘6**
(Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)
I argued vigorously with … likelihood, as to underestimate them (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties).

**Our evidence is comparative—war, environmental destruction, terrorism, and economic collapse are all dwarfed by an asteroid impact**
**Steel 2**
Joule Physics Laboratory, University of Salford (October 24, Duncan, “ Neo Impact Hazard: the Cancer Metaphor ” NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids, http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf pg. 93)

(8) Just because there are more … would then supplant our Earthly concerns.
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">
China threat discourse is created by the military-industrial complex, repeated by a compliant media. Any Chinese space weapons program is in response to US policy. 

Foust ‘8 
Jeff <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Foust</span></span>, editor and publisher of The Space Review, The Space Review, 3/3/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">08</span></span>, China and the US: space race or miscommunication?, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1075/1 

<span class="UnderlinedChar">Those in the US who are concerned … </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">a lot of mistrust and bad feelings.” </span>

The consequence of these misperceptions is counterproductive policies like the Wolf amendment, which bans cooperation with China on space issues and threatens the relationship of two incredibly powerful states 

Kulacki 6/23  
Gregory, senior analyst and China Project manager for the Union of Concerned Scientists, //Nature// 474, 444–445 (23 June 2011) 

Attempts to isolate the Chinese space …<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> suspicions created by the legacy of this affair. </span>

Indeed, the second half of the twentieth century has been the story of paranoia over China perpetuated to justify power politics and the military-industrial complex. This cycle of enemy creation results in financial disaster and the sacrificial destruction of millions. 

Clark 6  
(No Rest for 'China Threat' Lobby, Gregory Clark is vice president of Akita International University and a former Australian diplomat. Japan Times, Jan. 7, 2006, http://taiwansecurity.org/News/2006/JT-070106.htm).  

<span class="UnderlinedChar">For as long as I have been in the China-watching business … have been spent. And millions have died</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 16.0pt;">. </span>

Why is the American military-industrial complex obsessed with Chinese space militarization? Their knowledge of China is produced without reference to its epistemological basis, and fails to describe the status quo objectively, instead self-starting a cycle of fulfilled prophecies of rising tensions. 

<span class="Author-Date">Pan 4</span>  
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations at Australian National University (June-July 2004, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political”) 

More specifically, <span class="UnderlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">I want to argue …</span></span>, oriental studies, political science, and international relations.*  

Accordingly, China’s military space programs are countermeasures to US military posture, spurring a costly arms race—changing US space policy can stop the security dilemma cycle. 

Zhang 11 
Baohui Zhang, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, JSTOR, 2011, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011) (pp. 311-332) 

<span class="UnderlinedChar">China’s military space program and its … the U.S. could slow the momentum toward a space arms race</span>.  
China threat discourse makes war between the two countries inevitable and emboldens nationalists and hardliners in China. We must reject this kind of security discourse to allow better ways of thinking about China in the policy realm.  
<span class="Author-Date">  </span>
<span class="Author-Date">Pan 4  </span>
(Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, Australian National University, Canberra, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives 2004, p. 325-326) 

I have argued above that <span class="UnderlinedChar">the "China threat" … </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">dangerous ways of interpreting and debating China might become possible. </span>

China is just one part in a security industry that __manufactures__ low probability threats and worst case scenarios in order to build up the state’s defenses and defend its territory 

Lipschutz 98  
[Ronnie, prof of politics at UC Santa Cruz, “Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End,” On Security, ed. Ronnie Lipschutz, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/index.html] 

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">What then, is the form and content of … notion of security, the speech act. </span>

Securitization ensures total war and genocide - representations of extraordinary risks ensures astonishing violence 

Friis 2k 
Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2] 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span>
__The problem with societal **securitization** …**where truth is never questioned.**__  

“**<span style="font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Threats real” is not responsive – hardline arguments miss that the only way to eliminate a threat is to understand from whence it came. Deconstructing threats is try or die.</span>** 

Mack 91 
(John E., MD in Psychiatry, Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59) 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
The __threat of nuclear annihilation …__ __will with anything approaching objectivity.”__ 

China threat discourse is hyped up to justify bases overseas and massive military budgets. 

Hallinan 11 
Conn, columnist for Foreign Policy in Focus, 27 August, //Russia Today// http://rt.com/news/china-military-pentagon-report-271/ 

**__A new Pentagon report warns … military footprint in Asia.”__** 

Military bases and spending result in an constant war against women, the impoverished, and the environment—resulting in an ongoing genocide and ecocide. 
Cuomo 96  
(Chris J. Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women's Studies at the University of Georgia, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, //Hypatia// 11.4 nb, pp. 31-48) 

<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Philosophical attention to war has typically …f contemporary military institutions and practices.  </span>

In addition—the creation of security threats is a technology of power—security is used as a threat to discipline the population into a conformity which facilitates torture and violence. The opposite of insecurity is not to secure but to emancipate. 

Neocleous 8 
Mark <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Neocleous</span></span>, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University,<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> 08</span></span> (“Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 4-6 Published 2008) 

But what if at the heart of … <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">anti-disciplinary. It is a work of critique. </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>

Therefore, we advocate that the United States federal government should increase its exploration of Mars via President Obama’s proposal for bilateral civil space cooperation with the People’s Republic of China.  

Obama’s Mars plan co-operates with China- offers them the chance to join 

Svitak 11 
Svitak, Space News, 5/4/11 (Amy, Space News staff writer, “China Viewed as Potential U.S. Partner in Future Mars Exploration”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html, accessed 7/1/11)  

WASHINGTON — U.S. President Barack **__Obama …__** with them and with others.”  

China has the tech to co-operate and they’ll ask for inclusion 

Selding, 4-14-11 gender modified 
Peter B. de, Space News, “Chinese Government Official Urges U.S.-Chinese Space Cooperation,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110414-chinese-official-space-cooperation.html 

**__A top Chinese government space official__** on … applications including disaster monitoring and management. 


Mars cooperation spills over- leads to long term ties that solve tensions 

Rutkowski 8 
Rutkowski, 2008, Ryan, master's student studying international economics at Johns Hopkins University - Nanjing University Center for Chinese-American Studies, “The Prospect of US – China Collaboration for Manned-Space Exploration,” http://mysite.verizon.net/ryan.rutkowski/Blog/US-China%20Space%20cooperation.pdf 

However, **__the continued reluctance to pursue …__** our planet, solar system, and worlds beyond.  

Long term relations are sustainable in every other arena- space competition is the only place for deterioration 
Dolman, 10 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576)  

On the surface, it may seem as … **__incompatible, uncompromising realm is outer space.__** 

Uncertainty over space cooperation creates zero-sum space conflict. Close cooperation reassures both sides and avoids conflict. 

Blair and Yali 8  
President of the World Security Institute, Project Director at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment and Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution (“The Space Security Dilemma,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/images/stories/cs2-editorsnotes.pdf]]</span>)  

<span style="margin-right: .3in; mso-pagination: none;"><span class="UnderlinedChar">A dialogue of the deaf has …-level talks about the Bush Moon-Mars Initiative. </span></span>

But changing policy alone cannot succeed—only rejecting the production of “China Threat” discourse and its flawed epistemology and embracing insecurity and unpredictability can break the cycle. 

<span class="Author-Date">Pan 4</span>  
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations at Australian National University (June-July 2004, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political”) 

And yet, the real problem … **__and debating China might become possible.__** 

The power of security relies on the assent of those oppressed—the choice of the ballot is to accept or reject the securitized speech act directed at China - it is only securitized if you accept their speech act. Side constraint for rejecting securitization. 
Saltera ‘8  
(Securitization and desecuritization: a dramaturgical analysis of the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Mark B Saltera School of Politics, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1N 6N5, 2008 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN;">  </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 6.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN;">This model of settings for securitizing moves fits cleanly … </span>**__policy making discourse'__** **(**<span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN;">Floyd 2007: 336).  </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun;"> </span></span>
Understanding the discourse we use to understand the world is a prerequisite to policymaking—policy change can only take place when discursive dynamics are also changed through the slow transformation of cultural values. The affirmative is that transversal dissent. 

Bleiker 2000  
[Roland, Prof of International Relations, Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics, p. 183-4] 

While the previous chapter explained … elusive to be apprehended by the human mind? 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span></span>
And, the Aff’s speech act of dissenting to China threat rhetoric can create solidarity in other countries to create international change—example is anti-apartheid campaign. 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Arial Narrow","sans-serif"; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>
Marsh 95  
<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;">(Pearl-Alice, “Grassroots Statecraft and Citizens' Challenges to U.S. National Security Policy,” in //On Security//, R. Lipschutz, ed. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html </span>
<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;"><span style="font-family: "Arial Narrow","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">One of the goals of this volume is to better understand … </span> __images to influence national security policies.__ [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html#note10|10]]  </span>

Security relies on our complicity in its construction—refuse to be controlled by fear and it can be defeated.  

Burke ‘2  
(Anthony Burke, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland. Alternatives 27, 2002. Aporias of Security.by Anthony Burke 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 22.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN;">Refusing Security It is perhaps easy to become …, and what its shimmering possi­bilities might be. </span></span>
</span>