=GBX 1AC= 

1ac Plan Text

PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD INCREASE ITS FUNDING FOR THE GPS III PROGRAM TO THE LEVEL OF THE PRESIDENT’S REQUEST FOR FY2012 BUDGET.

1ac Inherency

CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY

Congress cut funding for GPS iii development and procurement

National Executive Committee 10/3 (“Fiscal Year 2012 Program Funding,” 10/3/11, National Executive Committee for Space-Based PNT, [[http://www.pnt.gov/policy/legislation/funding/2012.shtml]])

On June 14, the House Appropriations Committee passed a defense appropriations bill (H.R. 2219) that would cut GPS IIIB development by $50 million in FY 2012 due to "excess to need" (view source) and cut Next Generation Operational Control System (OCX) development by $48 million due to "slow execution" (view source), while adding $40 million to GPS IIF procurement for "production support" (view source). The bill would also rescind (take back) $122.5 million in FY 2011 advance procurement funds for GPS III satellites -- the entire amount requested and already appropriated for this activity (view source). On September 15, the Senate Appropriations Committee passed their version of H.R. 2219 with cuts of $40 million for GPS III advance procurement due to "Advance Procurement Addressed by Prior Reprogramming" (view source) and $24 million for OCX development due to "Directorate support—reduction to growth" (view source).

And, Cuts devastate GPS III budget

Gibbons 11 (“The Fire Next Time,” Glen, Editor and Publisher of Inside GNSS, managing partner of Gibbons Media & Research LLC, July/August 2011, [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2709]])

Common interests abound, and I’m not just referring to the RF issues that fuel the present furor. Already, some in Congress seem to be toying with the idea of requiring receiver standards that could include GPS products. In the great national deficit debate, program budgets are often laid waste — this year congressional committees have already whacked FY12 funds for GPS III and OCX space and ground segment modernization.

1ac Advantage One

CONTENTION TWO IS GPS CONSTELLATION

GPS constellation on the brink – cuts push inventory below key threshold of 24 satellites

Divis 11 (“Looming Budget Hurricane Could Swamp the GPS Landscape,” Inside GNSS, Dee Ann Divis, assistant managing news editor of the Washington Examiner, September/October 2011, [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2753]])

The squeeze comes just as the GPS program is facing an inventory of aging satellites. Even before the budgetary problems arose, explained a source familiar with the program, the current constellation was expected to shrink to as few as 24 to 26 satellites by 2015 to 2017. Projections suggest it might not be possible to bring the constellation back to its current strength until 2018 or 2019 — perhaps even later. This possibility of a shrinking constellation and a degradation of service is what most concerned those who spoke to Washington View. A level of 24 spacecraft plus three spares is needed, they said to maintain the level of accuracy and availability users now enjoy and to meet homeland and national security requirements

And, 2012 budget key – even 1 year delay ensures GPS constellation collapse below operational requirements

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

Excluding random failures, the operational life of a GPS satellite tends to be limited by the amount of power that its solar arrays can produce. This power level declines over time as the solar arrays degrade in the space environment until eventually they cannot produce enough power to maintain all of the satellite’s subsystems. The effects of this power loss can be mitigated somewhat by actively managing satellite subsystems—shutting them down when they are not needed—thereby reducing the satellite’s overall consumption of power. The Air Force currently employs this approach—referred to as current management—to extend the life of GPS satellites. According to the Air Force, it would also be possible to significantly reduce a satellite’s consumption of power and further extend the life of its PNT mission by shutting off a second payload on a GPS satellite once the satellite could not generate enough power to support both the missions. Shutting off the second payload once the satellite cannot support both missions—known as power management—would further mitigate the impact of a delay in GPS III. However, the impact is limited to increasing the predicted size of the constellation by about 1 satellite. For example, if the GPS III program were delayed by 1 year, the guaranteed size of the constellation (at the 95 percent confidence level) would decline to about 21 satellites by fiscal year 2017 if current management were employed and to about 22 satellites if power management were employed. See figure 5 for details. If the GPS III program were delayed by 2 years, the guaranteed size of the constellation (at the 95 percent confidence level) would decline to about 18 satellites by fiscal year 2018 if current management were employed and to about 19 satellites if power management were employed. See figure 6 for details.

SCENARIO ONE IS CROPS

GPS operation key to precision agriculture and crop efficiency

GPS.gov 11 (“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing, [[http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/]])

Precision agriculture is now changing the way farmers and agribusinesses view the land from which they reap their profits. Precision agriculture is about collecting timely geospatial information on soil-plant-animal requirements and prescribing and applying site-specific treatments to increase agricultural production and protect the environment. Where farmers may have once treated their fields uniformly, they are now seeing benefits from micromanaging their fields. Precision agriculture is gaining in popularity largely due to the introduction of high technology tools into the agricultural community that are more accurate, cost effective, and user friendly. Many of the new innovations rely on the integration of on-board computers, data collection sensors, and GPS time and position reference systems. Many believe that the benefits of precision agriculture can only be realized on large farms with huge capital investments and experience with information technologies. Such is not the case. There are inexpensive and easy-to-use methods and techniques that can be developed for use by all farmers. Through the use of GPS, GIS, and remote sensing, information needed for improving land and water use can be collected. Farmers can achieve additional benefits by combining better utilization of fertilizers and other soil amendments, determining the economic threshold for treating pest and weed infestations, and protecting the natural resources for future use. GPS equipment manufacturers have developed several tools to help farmers and agribusinesses become more productive and efficient in their precision farming activities. Today, many farmers use GPS-derived products to enhance operations in their farming businesses. Location information is collected by GPS receivers for mapping field boundaries, roads, irrigation systems, and problem areas in crops such as weeds or disease. The accuracy of GPS allows farmers to create farm maps with precise acreage for field areas, road locations and distances between points of interest. GPS allows farmers to accurately navigate to specific locations in the field, year after year, to collect soil samples or monitor crop conditions. Crop advisors use rugged data collection devices with GPS for accurate positioning to map pest, insect, and weed infestations in the field. Pest problem areas in crops can be pinpointed and mapped for future management decisions and input recommendations. The same field data can also be used by aircraft sprayers, enabling accurate swathing of fields without use of human “flaggers” to guide them. Crop dusters equipped with GPS are able to fly accurate swaths over the field, applying chemicals only where needed, minimizing chemical drift, reducing the amount of chemicals needed, thereby benefiting the environment. GPS also allows pilots to provide farmers with accurate maps. Farmers and agriculture service providers can expect even further improvements as GPS continues to modernize. In addition to the current civilian service provided by GPS, the United States is committed to implementing a second and a third civil signal on GPS satellites. The first satellite with the second civilian signal was launched in 2005. The new signals will enhance both the quality and efficiency of agricultural operations in the future.

And, GPS key to crop yields – consistency and accuracy

USARF 11 (USA Rice Federation, Western Farm Press, “GPS dependability vital to agriculture”, August 10, 2011, [[http://westernfarmpress.com/government/gps-dependability-vital-agriculture]], BBQ)

USA Rice Federation and 12 other agricultural and agribusiness organizations whose members are engaged in global positioning system (GPS) dependent precision agricultural practices or who service the technology wrote to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to urge the agency not to permit a corporate wireless network modification until it can be clearly demonstrated that no interference to GPS will occur as a result of the proposed change. "While our members support the development of wireless broadband services in rural America, we are deeply concerned that [the] proposed network will cause unacceptable interference to signals from the Global Positioning System (GPS)," coalition members said. GPS has been a boon to precision agriculture and the environment. "With the chronically uncertain future of agricultural production, growers cannot afford to lose dependable, consistent access to GPS technology and the benefit it provides," the groups said. Farmers and ranchers have invested heavily to purchase GPS devices for their equipment, making it unreasonable to move forward without knowing the effects of the proposed wireless network modifications on agricultural GPS equipment. Developing and proving the effectiveness of a commercially feasible filtering device for the field is needed, although the cost for such a device is unknown.

And, Reduced crop yields cause World War III

Calvin 98 (William, theoretical neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, ATLANTIC MONTHLY, January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, Vol 281, No. 1, 1998, p. 47)

The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields would cause some powerful countries to try to take over their neighbors or distant lands -- if only because their armies, unpaid and lacking food, would go marauding, both at home and across the borders. The better-organized countries would attempt to use their armies, before they fell apart entirely, to take over countries with significant remaining resources, driving out or starving their inhabitants if not using modern weapons to accomplish the same end: eliminating competitors for the remaining food. This would be a worldwide problem -- and could lead to a Third World War -- but Europe's vulnerability is particularly easy to analyze. The last abrupt cooling, the Younger Dryas, drastically altered Europe's climate as far east as Ukraine. Present-day Europe has more than 650 million people. It has excellent soils, and largely grows its own food. It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.

And, Crop yields key to prevent poverty – shortages, price spikes, unemployment

Khan 01 (Mahmood Hasan, Professor of Economics at Simon Fraser University International Monetary Fund, “Rural Poverty in Developing Countries”, March 2001, [[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/issues/issues26/index.htm]], BBQ)

Achieving agricultural growth by applying new technologies is one of the most important ways to reduce rural poverty. The impact of such efforts on the rural poor, however, depends on initial conditions, the structure of relevant institutions, and incentives. Research shows that agricultural stagnation has harmed the rural poor in sub-Saharan Africa by creating food shortages and higher prices that have reduced their ability to buy food and find work. Conversely, experience with the Green Revolution showed that rapid agricultural progress made a big difference in reducing rural poverty in parts of South Asia. Researchers have found that higher crop yields reduce both the number of rural poor and the severity of rural poverty. But these effects are strong only if certain conditions are met:

And, Poverty is an ongoing thermonuclear war against the poor – outweighs your one shot scenario

Gilligan 96 (James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, "Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes", p. 191-196)

The deadliest form of violence is poverty. You cannot work for one day with the violent people who fill our prisons and mental hospitals for the criminally insane without being forcible and constantly reminded of the extreme poverty and discrimination that characterizes their lives. Hearing about their lives, and about their families and friends, you are forced to recognize the truth in Gandhi's observation that the deadliest form of violence is poverty. Not a day goes by without realizing that trying to understand them and their violent behavior in purely individual terms is impossible and wrong-headed. Any theory of violence, especially a psychological theory, that evolves from the experience of men in maximum security prisons and hospitals for the criminally insane must begin with the recognition that these institutions are only microcosms. They are not where the major violence in our society takes place, and the perpetrators who fill them are far from being the main causes of most violent deaths. Any approach to a theory of violence needs to begin with a look at the structural violence in this country. Focusing merely on those relatively few men who commit what we define as murder could distract us from examining and learning from those structural causes of violent death that are for more significant from a numerical or public health, or human, standpoint. By "structural violence" I mean the increased rates of death, and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively low death rates experienced by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of class structure; and that structure itself is a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting "structural" with "behavioral violence," by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on. Structural violence differs from behavior violence in at least three major respects. The lethal effects of= structural violence operate continuously, rather than sporadically, whereas murders, suicides, executions, wars, and other forms of behavioral violence occur one at a time. *Structural violence operates more or less independently of individual acts; independent of individuals and groups (politicians, political parties, voters) whose decisions may nevertheless have lethal consequences for others. *Structural violence is normally invisible, because it may appear to have had other (natural or violent) causes. The finding that structural violence causes far more deaths than behavioral violence does is not limited to this country. Kohler and Alcock attempted to arrive at the number of excess deaths caused by socioeconomic inequities on a worldwide basis. Sweden was their model of the nation that had come closest to eliminating structural violence. It had the least inequity in income and living standards, and the lowest discrepancies in death rates and life expectancy; and the highest overall life expectancy of the world. When they compared the life expectancies of those living in the other socioeconomic systems against Sweden, they found that 18 million deaths a year could be attributed to the "structural violence" to which the citizens of all the other nations were being subjected. During the past decade, the discrepancies between the rich and poor nations have increased dramatically and alarmingly. The 14 to 19 million deaths a year caused by structural violence compare with about 100,000 deaths per year from armed conflict. Comparing this frequency of deaths from structural violence to the frequency of those caused by major military and political violence, such as World War II (an estimated 49 million military and civilian deaths, including those by genocide – or about eight million per year, 1939-1945), the Indonesian massacre of 1965-66 (perhaps 575,000 deaths), the Vietnam war (possibly two million, 1954-1973), and even a hypothetical nuclear exchange between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. (232 million), it is clear that even war cannot begin to compare with structural violence, which continues year after year. In other words, every fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, and accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide, perpetrated on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world. Structural violence is also the main cause of behavioral violence on a socially and epidemiologically significant scale (from homicide and suicide to war and genocide). The question as to which of the two forms of violence – structural or behavioral – is more important, dangerous, or lethal is moot, for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect.

SCENARIO TWO IS POWER GRIDS

GPS operation vital to power grid distribution

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

GPS began operations with a full constellation of satellites in 1995. Over time, GPS has become vital to military operations and a ubiquitous infrastructure underpinning major sections of the economy, including telecommunications, electrical power distribution, banking and finance, transportation, environmental and natural resources management, agriculture, and emergency services. GPS is used by all branches of the military to guide troop movements, integrate logistics support, enable components underlying battlespace situational awareness, and synchronize communications networks. In addition, U.S. and allied munitions are guided to their targets by GPS signals and GPS is used to locate military personnel in distress. Civil agencies, commercial firms, and individuals use GPS and GPS augmentations to accurately navigate from one point to another. Commercial firms use GPS and GPS augmentations to route their vehicles, as do maritime industries and mass transit systems. In addition to navigation, civil departments and agencies and commercial firms use GPS and GPS augmentations to provide high-accuracy, three-dimensional positioning information in real time for use in surveying and mapping and other location-based services. The aviation community worldwide uses GPS and GPS augmentations to increase the safety and efficiency of flight. GPS and GPS augmentations are also used by the agricultural community for precision farming, including farm planning, field mapping, soil sampling, tractor guidance, and crop scouting; the natural resources management community uses GPS for wildfire management and firefighting, pesticide and herbicide control, and watershed and other natural resources asset management. GPS is increasingly important to earth observation, which includes operational roles in weather prediction, the measurement of sea level change, monitoring of ocean circulation, and mitigation of hazards caused by earthquakes and volcanoes. GPS helps companies and governments place satellites in precise orbits, and at correct altitudes, and helps monitor satellite constellation orbits. The precise time that GPS broadcasts is crucial to economic activities worldwide, including communication systems, electrical power grids, and financial networks.

And, GPS key to voltage control, current distribution, and syncing power grid

Erickson 05 (Dennis C., GPS World, December 1, 2005, “Strengthening the Power Grid”, [[http://www.gpsworld.com/gnss-system/strengthening-power-grid-1013]], BBQ)

Of all the responsibilities associated with modern society’s infrastructure, few are as important as keeping the electric power grid healthy and functional. To do this requires the accurate measurement of the voltage and current on generation, transmission and distribution lines, and buses. These measurements are necessary for controlling, protecting, scheduling, operating, maintaining, and planning of the power network as well as billing customers correctly. For many power-system applications, these measurements must be time tagged to within microseconds of absolute time using GPS transmissions. In 1996 on the West Coast and again in 2003 on the East Coast, two costly wide-area power grid blackouts cost society at total of at least $10 billion and disrupted the lives of millions. What can be done to prevent or at the least minimize these disastrous events depends on what we do with these measurements to provide timely and cost-effective solutions. Time and frequency reference systems such as GPS and five other enabling technological advances of late have, when tightly integrated, the potential of enhancing and lowering overall power system costs. At present, a GPS receiver is the most efficient and universally accepted time source used at power system measurement sites. Knowing the relative phase angle of the voltages and currents in a particular region enables the instantaneous computation of the active and reactive power, which can be used in billing, protective relaying, and system-calming control algorithms. The timely acquisition and dissemination of wide-area power system quantities to centralized sites is believed to be absolutely essential in managing the quality, security, and stability of large power system grids. Other important timing techniques arriving include the use of deterministic communication techniques, which can provide wide-area time synchronizing of all data sources to a fixed and stable delay (within microseconds or less) using Ethernet protocols.

And, Power grid failure causes meltdowns

Smith 2k (Gar Earth Island Journal, winter, environmental journalist proquest)

The third type could happen if the electricity fails. Reactors depend on off-site electric power to run cooling systems and control rooms, with emergency diesel generators for automatic backup. Unfortunately, according to Olsen, even in the US these generators are "not even 90 percent reliable." In the US, most local emergency officials are planning for three weeks without power. But diesel generators often overheat and usually are not operated for weeks at a time. Many generators also have digital components that may be subject to Y2K failure. "It takes only two hours without the cooling system functioning for reactor fuel to melt," Olsen says. Power failures also could cause "a meltdown of nuclear fuel storage pools.... These pools must be cooled for at least five years." Loss of off-site electrical power poses the most prominent risk to nuclear powerplant safety. Reliable back-up power is needed immediately at each nuclear site. Fuel cells and gas turbines are more reliable than diesel generators. There are well over 1,000 private utilities, non-utility generators, public utilities, and rural electric cooperatives in the US and Canada operating more than 15,000 generating units. Many will reach the millennium with Y2K issues unresolved. The US electric power grid is fragile. In 1996, two disruptions in one five-week period caused 190 generating stations (including several nuclear reactors) to shut down. On August 10, 1996, a sagging tree limb in Oregon caused a short that caused a blackout in California, Arizona and New Mexico. Millions of people were left without power. In some regions, the blackout lasted several weeks. MRS notes that increasingly severe winter storms have caused power outages in the eastern US in recent years. Such wintertime power failures "could lead to extended blackouts and resultant nuclear catastrophes." The NIRS has petitioned the NRC to require all nuclear power stations to stockpile a 20-day supply of fuel for diesel generators. Batteries charged by solar cells, windmills, hydroelectric or geothermal energy would give the greatest assurance of long-term stability

And, Extinction

Wasserman 02 (Harvey, Free Press Senior Editor, Earth Island Institute, “Nuclear Power and Terrorism,” Spring, http://earthisland.org/journal/index.php/eij/article/nuclear_power_and_terrorism/)

As US bombs and missiles began to rain on Afghanistan, the certainty of terror retaliation inside the US has turned our 103 nuclear power plants into potential weapons of apocalyptic destruction, just waiting to be used against us. One or both planes that crashed into the World Trade Center on September 11 could have easily obliterated the two atomic reactors now operating at Indian Point, about 40 miles up the Hudson River. Indian Point Unit One was shut long ago by public outcry. But Units 2 and 3 have operated since the 1970s. Reactor containment domes were built to withstand a jetliner crash but today's jumbo jets are far larger than the planes that were flying in the 1970s. Had one of those hijacked jets hit one of the operating reactors at Indian Point, the ensuing cloud of radiation would have dwarfed the ones at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. The intense radioactive heat within today's operating reactors is the hottest anywhere on the planet. Because Indian Point has operated so long, its accumulated radioactive burden far exceeds that of Chernobyl. The safety systems are extremely complex and virtually indefensible. One or more could be wiped out with a small aircraft, ground-based weapons, truck bombs or even chemical/biological assaults aimed at the work force. A terrorist assault at Indian Point could yield three infernal fireballs of molten radioactive lava burning through the earth and into the aquifer and the river. Striking water, they would blast gigantic billows of horribly radioactive steam into the atmosphere. Thousands of square miles would be saturated with the most lethal clouds ever created, depositing relentless genetic poisons that would kill forever. Infants and small children would quickly die en masse. Pregnant women would spontaneously abort or give birth to horribly deformed offspring. Ghastly sores, rashes, ulcerations and burns would afflict the skin of millions. Heart attacks, stroke and multiple organ failure would kill thousands on the spot. Emphysema, hair loss, nausea, inability to eat or drink or swallow, diarrhea and incontinence, sterility and impotence, asthma and blindness would afflict hundreds of thousands, if not millions. Then comes the wave of cancers, leukemias, lymphomas, tumors and hellish diseases for which new names will have to be invented. Evacuation would be impossible, but thousands would die trying. Attempts to quench the fires would be futile. More than 800,000 Soviet draftees forced through Chernobyl's seething remains in a futile attempt to clean it up are still dying from their exposure. At Indian Point, the molten cores would burn uncontrolled for days, weeks and years. Who would volunteer for such an American task force? The immediate damage from an Indian Point attack (or a domestic accident) would render all five boroughs of New York City an apocalyptic wasteland. As at Three Mile Island, where thousands of farm and wild animals died in heaps, natural ecosystems would be permanently and irrevocably destroyed. Spiritually, psychologically, financially and ecologically, our nation would never recover. This is what we missed by a mere 40 miles on September 11. Now that we are at war, this is what could be happening as you read this. There are 103 of these potential Bombs of the Apocalypse operating in the US. They generate a mere 8 percent of our total energy. Since its deregulation crisis, California cut its electric consumption by some 15 percent. Within a year, the US could cheaply replace virtually all the reactors with increased efficiency.

SCENARIO THREE IS MALARIA

GPS key to eradicate malaria and control outbreaks

Saxena et al 09 (“Application of spatial technology in malaria research & control: some new insights,” Rekha, National Institute of Malaria Research, Indian Journal of Medical Research, [[http://www.icmr.nic.in/ijmr/2009/august/0904.pdf]])

GIS is defined as an information system that is used to input, store, retrieve, manipulate, analyze and output geographically referenced data or spatial data. All methods of collecting information about earth without touching it are forms of remote sensing. Satellites, radars and aerial photographs are the different ways of acquiring remotely sensed data. GPS is a system of twenty-four satellites that allows the co-ordinates of any point on or near earth’s surface to be measured with extremely high precision 3. GIS is an umbrella term which integrates wide range of datasets available from different sources including RS and GPS. Therefore, GIS is often termed as core of spatial technology having built-in power to analyze integrated dataset and to present the results as useful information to assist decision making. This article attempts to present the technology of GIS and its functionalities with regard to applications in malaria research and control during the last decade. The research articles have been grouped into six categories according to the usage of the technology. Spatial data sources, mapping and geo-processing tools, distance calculation, digital elevation model (DEM), model, buffer zone, and geo-statistical analysis have been investigated in detail, illustrated with examples as per the derived results. Finally, a conclusion is drawn incorporating various aspects of malaria epidemiology covered by different tools and future prospects for better decision support. GIS in malaria research and control (i) Spatial data sources: Epidemiology of vectorborne diseases is changing fast with the availability of data using new methods of spatial data collection like GPS and RS. The GPS has been used mainly for field data collection and remote sensing by means of aerial photographs and satellite imageries has succeeded in providing descriptive climatic and landscape features. RS data in GIS have been used widely for identification, characterization, monitoring, surveillance of breeding habitats and mapping of malaria risk. GIS maps developed from aerial photographs in Dar-esSalaam, Tanzania facilitated efficient larval surveillance and complete coverage of targeted areas with larval control 4. Remote sensing imageries in a GIS was used for identification and characterization of the habitats that produced potential Anopheles vector mosquitoes in the Republic of Korea 5. Integrated use of remote sensing and GIS has been successfully demonstrated in many studies related to mapping of malaria risk in different parts of Africa 6-7. Combined with data from surveillance activities, GIS and GPS are ideal tools for generating base maps, mapping breeding habitats and analysis of areas of high disease prevalence. Mapping of the study site, Mulago III parish - a typical urban slum located in Kampala, the capital of Uganda was done using GPS and GIS to generate a sampling frame for a longitudinal study of malaria incidence and treatment 8. GPS data integrated into a GIS were used to map anopheline larval habitats in the Suba district in Western Kenya 9. GPS recording of the co-ordinates and elevation of anopheline larvae aquatic sites, integrated and mapped using a GIS helped determine An. arabiensis breeding on the Mount Kenya highlands indicating indigenous malaria transmission in the area 10. GPS data of Anopheles sp. breeding sites integrated into the digital map of Ouagadougou, Africa, helped analyze a gradient of endemicity between the urban centre and the periphery 11. (ii) Mapping and geo-processing tools: GIS mapping and geo-processing tools have contributed immensely towards the development of spatial epidemiology of malaria. GIS has enabled data to be geo-referenced, mapped and geo-processed to carry out sophisticated analysis. Geo-processing by means of overlay and intersection has helped in building spatial analysis. Overlay combines two or more map layers within a GIS to create one or more new map layers of new information. Examples have been drawn from the studies done in various countries making use of these spatial features for deriving useful results. GIS-based malaria incidence mapping has been used for risk assessment at national, regional, town and village level. Such mapping is considered crucial for analyzing past as well as present disease trends. Risks maps developed on the basis of mapped malaria incidence are tools for targeted and cost-effective control of disease. Mapping of both Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum malaria incidence distribution for 8 years (1995-2002) on the islands of Sri Lanka at subdistrict resolution helped in the assessment of malaria risk in the country 12. This mapping was updated for 10 months preceding tsunami in December 2004 to assess the post-disaster malaria situation in Sri Lanka 13. GIS was used to perform a retrospective analysis of malaria case data for the past 37 years and district-wise malaria incidence data for past 6 years to determine the spatial and temporal dynamics of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria incidence in Thailand 14. GIS was introduced in Mpumalanga province of South Africa to stratify malaria risk on the basis of disease incidence at town and village level 15. Section-wise mapping of malaria incidence from 1991-2001 helped identify malaria receptivity and trends within each paradigm of Mewat district, Haryana, India 16. Many maps of global malaria risk distribution in space and time have been prepared using GIS. Mapping the global distribution of malaria is motivated by a need to define populations at risk for appropriate resource allocation to combat the disease. Hay et al 17 used GIS to overlay historical maps of malaria risk to create a single global distribution map of malaria risk which illustrated range changing from 1900 to 2002. Also overlaying of contemporaneous population surfaces helped quantify changes in the numbers of people living in areas of malaria risk. Snow et al 18 defined the global extent of the clinical episodes caused by P. faliciparum worldwide by combining epidemiological, geographical and demographic data. Guerra et al 19 constructed an evidenced based spatial description of the global distribution of P. falciparum and P. vivax by combing in a GIS several sources of information on malaria risk. Combining these maps with those of human population distribution enabled estimates of the global population at risk of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria during 2005. A newly launched ‘Malaria Atlas Project (MAP)’ is developing global maps of malaria transmission intensity to identify the distribution of populations at risk on the basis of classified malaria endemicity based on globally generated parasite rate database 20. Spatial analyses using geo-processing tools had assisted in establishing relationship between malaria incidence and other potentially related variables. Such studies are done to identify risk factors for high receptivity. GIS based malaria information management system developed for urban malaria scheme in India ensured that if a localized spurt of the disease occurs, it can be associated rapidly with a likely cause, a specific vector and a probable human source so that appropriate preventive action can be taken to arrest any rising trend

And, GPS key to malaria risks map – prevents mosquitoes from maturing and transmitting disease

Bautista et al 06 (Christian T., Department of Epidemiology and Threat Assessment, U.S. Military HIV Research Program at the Walter Reed Army Institute, Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement Military Medicine , Adeline S. T. Chan, Jeffrey R. Ryan, Carlos Calampa, Marty H. Roper, Allen W. Hightower, Alan J. Magill, The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2006, [[http://www.ajtmh.org/content/75/6/1216.full.pdf+html]], BBQ)

Recent applications of GIS/GPS in malaria control have been reported in India,25 Madagascar,26,27 and Thailand.28 In India, the objective was to develop a model to assist planning and implementation of a suitable malaria control. The location of disease occurrence and information on specific vectors were analyzed in a GIS permitting the development of appropriate preventive action. In Madagascar, GIS has been applied to detect areas at high-risk for malaria outbreak and used in malaria surveillance with the objective of anticipating areas with a concentrated distribution of An. funestus. Similarly, in Thailand, GIS/GPS have permitted real-time monitoring and forecasting of the distributions of four malaria species so that control measures may be conducted before mosquitoes emerge as adults and transmit disease. In summary, our results show the presence of micro-geographic variations in periods with high or low malaria incidence, and a constant presence of high-risk areas (hot spots) for malaria infection. Results of this study may lead to a reorientation of malaria control where relatively modest, targeted control efforts directed at identified high-risk areas may have significant impacts.29 Future research in a wider variety of communities and the application of new spatial cluster methods are required to better understand the micro-geographic variation of malaria in this region.

And, Biggest guaranteed impact – million deaths per year

WHO 09 (“10 facts on malaria,” World Health Organization, March 09, [[http://www.who.int/features/factfiles/malaria/en/index.html]])

About 3.3 billion people - half of the world's population - are at risk of malaria. Every year, this leads to about 250 million malaria cases and nearly one million deaths. People living in the poorest countries are the most vulnerable.

1ac Advantage Two

CONTENTION THREE IS GPS III

SCENARIO ONE IS NUCLEAR TESTING

GPS III incorporates nuclear detonation detection

Global Security.org no date (“GPS III/GPS Block III,” [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/space/systems/gps_3.htm]])

GPS III enhances U.S. leadership in space-based navigation by meeting the stated Presidential goal of establishing GPS as a world standard. GPS III supports the Federal Radionavigation Plan and will be fully interoperable with all current global radionavigation systems. The GPS III system also incorporates the Nuclear Detonation Detection System (NDS) and provides a potential platform for supporting additional synergistic payloads and services. The Government intends to use an evolutionary development approach. This approach includes using a modular open systems architecture, standard interfaces and protocols, and continuous technology refresh, to incrementally improve system capabilities with a low risk of GPS service interruption.

And, GPS III uniquely key – ionosphere detection

Cozzens 11 (Tracy, August 1, 2011, GPS World, “Detecting Nuclear Testing”, detection, http://www.gpsworld.com/government/remote-sensing/detecting-nuclear-testing-11910, BBQ)

Can GPS be used to detect underground nuclear explosions? A research team is developing a software program that uses GPS to analyze the ionospheric effect of nuclear explosions. Results would show when and where a country has conducted a secret underground nuclear test. Team members are Jihye Park, Ralph. R. B. von Frese, and Dorota A. Grejner-Brzezinska from The Ohio State University and Jade Yu Morton from Miami University. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1996, but not all nuclear countries have ratified it, including the United States, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, and Israel. Also, India, North Korea, and Pakistan have not signed the treaty. Park, a doctoral student in geodetic science at Ohio State, created the computer program to detect changes in the ionosphere from nuclear weapons testing. A previous study showed that the ionosphere was disturbed by underground nuclear testing conducted by Russia in 1990. GPS is capable of precisely measuring the total electron content (TEC) of the ionosphere along the path between satellite and receiver at a GPS station, so Park and her team decided to begin researching the use of GPS in detecting nuclear explosions. “Many studies have been done to monitor and model the atmosphere using GPS technology,” Park said. “Research has proven that GPS can detect natural disasters such as earthquakes or tsunamis. This study broadens those areas of study with its capability to detect underground explosions.”Detonation of a nuclear weapon results in a shockwave that travels through the atmosphere, changing the density of charged particles in the ionosphere. “The explosions can’t hide from the ionosphere,” said von Frese, geophysicist and project leader. “Our technology would be another nail in the structure to detect explosions.” “One of the arguments is ‘Well, how do you prove that a clandestine explosion occurred?’” said Grejner-Brzezinska, Park’s adviser and GPS World’s Tech Talk blog editor. “Now we can say, ‘Here, we have the data from GPS to show when and where.’” According to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) nuclear testing has been carried out in the past by the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea (see Figure 1). Researchers, and those monitoring treaty violations, are able to target specific geographic areas that are equipped for tests, since development of a nuclear test site requires a lot of technical effort and budget. For example, the North Korean tests carried out in 2006 and 2009 were very close geographically. “They tend to stick to the same site and reuse their facilities for nuclear testing,” von Frese said. “So a country that has previously conducted underground nuclear testing probably will reuse the site if new testing is needed.” “They could be monitored using GPS as long as there are GPS stations nearby,” Park said. The new GPS nuclear-detection technology was presented at the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization meeting held June 8–10 in Vienna, Austria, and received press coverage that drew additional interest.

That deters nuclear tests

Bell 02 (“Analysis of GPS Satellite Allocation for the United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System” 1st Lt. Aaron Bell, Air Force Institute of Technology, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=3&ved=0CC0QFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hsdl.org%2F%3Fview%26did%3D3094&ei=jM2TTuyQOoGwsALmh83sBg&usg=AFQjCNGjEpeE14Vyb3uoYTFwri4kYnUdxw&sig2=kMULAk6nGEsStsgoJVw86w]])

The United States maintains a vigilant role in the continued effort to deter and detect nuclear detonations. In 2001, $36.4 million dollars were allocated to monitoring nuclear explosions [DOE National Security R&D Portfolio, 83]. The mission of the United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System (USNDS) is to “provide worldwide, highly survivable capability to detect, characterize, locate and report nuclear detonations and associated data: in earth’s atmosphere and near space, in near real time, and support three national-level missions.”

And, Earth goes Death Star

Chalko 03 (“Can a Neutron Bomb accelerate Global Volcanic Activity?” Tom J. Chalko, MSc, PhD., Head of Geophysics Division, [[http://sci-e-research.com/neutron_bomb.html]])

Consequences of using modern nuclear weapons can be far more serious than previously imagined. These consequences relate to the fact that most of the heat generated in the planetary interior is a result of nuclear decay. Over the last few decades, all superpowers have been developing so-called "neutron bombs". These bombs are designed to emit intensive neutron radiation while creating relatively little local mechanical damage. Military are very keen to use neutron bombs in combat, because lethal neutron radiation can penetrate even the largest and deepest bunkers. However, the military seem to ignore the fact that a neutron radiation is capable to reach significant depths in the planetary interior. In the process of passing through the planet and losing its intensity, a neutron beam stimulates nuclei of radioactive isotopes naturally present inside the planet to disintegrate. This disintegration in turn, generates more neutron and other radiation. The entire process causes increased nuclear heat generation in the planetary interior, far greater than the initial energy of the bomb. It typically takes many days or even weeks for this extra heat to conduct/convect to the surface of the planet and cause increased seismic/volcanic activity. Due to this variable delay, nuclear tests are not currently associated with seismic/volcanic activity, simply because it is believed that there is no theoretical basis for such an association. Perhaps you heard that after every major series of nuclear test there is always a period of increased seismic activity in some part of the world. This observable fact CANNOT be explained by direct energy of the explosion. The mechanism of neutron radiation accelerating decay of radioactive isotopes in the planetary interior, however, is a VERY PLAUSIBLE and realistic explanation. The process of accelerating volcanic activity is nuclear in essence. Accelerated decay of unstable radioactive isotopes already present in the planetary interior provides the necessary energy. The TRUE danger of modern nuclear weaponry is that their neutron radiation is capable to induce global overheating of the planetary interior, global volcanic activity and, in extreme circumstances, may even cause the entire planet to explode.

SCENARIO TWO IS HEG

GPS guarantees operational superiority in all combat

Medlock 08 (“Worldwide Influence of GPS and the Challenges Ahead,” TSgt Theresa A., Lead Specialist Missile Warning Support Element, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

The use of GPS data has provided our military with great advantages since the program’s inception. Its use in military operations, has virtually guaranteed continuous operational superiority in any sea, land, or air environment. At sea, GPS data helps to ensure safe passage of carrier battle groups through the Persian Gulf. On the battlefield, its use enhances combatant commander’s capabilities to direct troop movements. In the air, it allows pilots to easily locate the enemy and ensure on target munitions delivery. All of these applications of GPS have had a great impact on operations that will continue to grow as new technology advances take hold.

And, GPS empirically key to all military operation

DeGryse 08 (“GPS Modernization and the Path Forward: Bringing New Capabilities to Military and Civil Users Worldwide,” Dr. Donald, Vice President Lockheed Martin, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

America and much of the world depend on GPS for accurate position, navigation, and timing (PNT) information and this space-based asset has become essential to the military as well as the public at large. The US armed forces’ ability to successfully execute global operations with great speed and effectiveness is significantly enhanced by the precision location, guidance and navigation capabilities delivered by GPS. Most recently, the system was integral to every military branch in the US-led coalition’s success in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. For example, special forces mounted on horseback in Afghanistan summoned GPS-guided precision air strikes to engage enemy targets with pinpoint accuracy and then used the system to navigate safely back to base. Likewise, in Iraq, GPS demonstrated its value by allowing Air Force pilots to streak through the sky with confidence because they knew exactly where they were and where they needed to go. It would be difficult to fight today’s conflicts without this enabling technology.

And, GPS II has weak signal – GPS III prevent jamming

Hyten 08 (“GPS On and Off the Battlefield: An Interview with Brig Gen John E. Hyten,” High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

Hyten: To me the most important thing GPS III brings is a larger bus, which is the platform of the satellite. It allows you to do additional things. It has more power so it can provide more power to the ground. The GPS signal right now is very weak, GPS III will provide signals that would be hard to interfere with, either accidentally or on purpose. In the future we will have a more robust power system in space. We can then transmit a more powerful signal to the ground. We will have a lot of anti-jam capabilities on those future satellites that will make the system more difficult to jam, more robust, more capable, and will allow us to fight through a lot of different problems that we really can’t do with the previous versions. Our efforts are focused on the warfighter. Most of the new capabilities are designed to provide that ensured navigation and timing signal to warfighters around the world.

And, Jamming coming now – North Korea, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Russia

Jersusalem Post 11/18 (Yaakov Katz, November 18, 2011, “Security and Defense: In a jam over precision munitions”, [[http://www.jpost.com/Features/FrontLines/Article.aspx?id=246026]], BBQ)

In March, one of the Western world’s worst nightmares came true. The United States and South Korea began their annual joint military exercise, code-named “Foal Eagle,” involving over 10,000 American soldiers and an additional 200,000 South Korean troops. One of the scenarios played out during the drill, simulating a potential military conflict between the two sides of the peninsula in the event that longtime North Korean leader Kim Jong II dies and his son Kim Jong Un is incapable of establishing control, seemed more than realistic. Toward the end of the exercise, global positioning systems started to fail, particularly in areas such as the capital, Seoul and the city of Paju. Most affected were US Tomahawk cruise missiles as well as Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) bomb kits, which are supposed to turn regular bombs into smart bombs and accurate satellite-guided weapons. After a short investigation, South Korean intelligence discovered that North Korea had activated two different systems to jam the satellite signal. The first was a vehicle-mounted device North Korea had purchased from Russia in the early 2000s, which is believed to be capable of jamming GPS signals from 50 to 100 km. away. The second system was a spinoff and upgrade of the Russian system manufactured domestically in North Korea that is believed to cost less but has the ability to jam GPS reception within a radius of 400 km. Israel, which for years has feared and prepared for the possibility that in a future conflict with Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas in the Gaza Strip, Syria or Iran, its GPS systems will fail, followed these developments closely. The Israel Defense Forces has already considered the possibility that North Korea has sold its GPS jamming system to Middle East countries including Lebanon, Syria and Iran. Just last month, Russia announced that it had sold a series of advanced radar jammers to Iran. Called Avtobaza, the electronic intelligence system might also be able to jam GPS-guided platforms and munitions. “We are preparing and expect that this will be a challenge we will have to deal with in a future war,” a senior IDF officer explained recently. “Our enemies are also building up capabilities.” The ability to jam GPS systems has been a taboo subject within the Israeli defense establishment for years, but with a new conflict looming on the horizon – possibly following an Israeli strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities – there is no ignoring the likelihood that in a future war Israeli smart bombs will be rendered satellite-less. The development of GPS began in the 1970s by the Pentagon and today consists of two dozen satellites that provide global coverage for receivers to determine their precise location within a few meters. The satellites revolve around the earth at an altitude of 20,000 km. and complete one orbit roughly every 12 hours. Over the years, GPS has become an integral part of civilian life and not just of the military. It is used by ships to navigate at sea, by cars to travel by land and by the civil aviation industry as well. Most cellular phones come with GPS chips and its capabilities are often taken for granted. The IDF took its first major step into the world of GPS in 2000 when it became the first foreign customer outside of the US to receive JDAM kits. These were fitted onto 2,000-pound Mk-84 bombs, turning them into precision satellite-guided smart bombs. JDAMs enable Israel Air Force pilots to launch bombs from a standoff position without needing to fly directly over targets where they could be threatened by enemy air defense missile systems. An example of how importance JDAMs are for Israel was provided during Operation Cast Lead in the Gaza Strip almost three years ago. Out of all the bombs dropped, 81 percent were smart bombs, the largest percentage of precision guided weapons ever used in conflict anywhere in the world. But with the reliance come the risks, as jamming systems are more easily available today on the open market. There is also the lingering fear that one day – possibly to prevent Israel from taking military action – the US will shut down the GPS satellites. Maj.-Gen. (res.) Eitan Ben-Eliyahu was commander of the IAF when Israel placed its first order of JDAM kits. “I pushed very hard for the JDAMs since I understood that they were going to provide us with new capabilities that would change the way we operate,” he said. “There are potential problems but when calculating the risks together with the benefits, it is definitely worth relying on such systems.” Israel’s doesn’t just rely on GPS in the air. Take navigation for ground forces as an example. In today’s IDF, Merkava tanks, Namer armored personnel carriers and artillery howitzers are all connected to the Tzayad Digital Army Program (DAP), which shows the position of all friendly and enemy forces. “If a country doesn’t take any precautions to protect GPS then it will be in trouble, since jammers are something that will likely be on a future battlefield,” explained Nir Lavi, director of marketing at Rokar, a Jerusalem-company based that has developed technology to make GPS systems immune to jamming. According to David Last, a former president of the Royal Institute of Navigation and a GPS consultant to the British government, Hezbollah could theoretically place a special radio transmitter on an elevated surface – like a tall mountain in southern Lebanon – and potentially block Israeli GPS from working within a radius of several kilometers. “It takes so little jamming to remove GPS and to jam over a very considerable area – it only requires a radio transmitter that is portable and is easily obtained. If you place it in an elevated location, you can cover a large area,” Last said.

Independently, GPS failure jacks the marines

GAO 10 (“Global Positioning System: Challenges in Sustaining and Upgrading Capabilities Persist,” Report to the Subcommittee on National Security and Foreign Affairs, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, Government Accounting Office, September 2010, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10636.pdf]])

Marine Corps. The Marine Corps user representative stated that Marines are accustomed to using GPS for PNT; therefore the loss of GPS would severely affect Marines’ ability to navigate. Effects would vary depending on the situation in which a user operates. The most severely affected Marines would be those who use GPS in marginal but currently acceptable conditions, such as under foliage, in mountains, and in urban settings, where a smaller constellation is more likely to result in diminished or no service.

That devastates Heg – forward power projection

Gunzinger 93 (“Power Projection: Making the Tough Choices,” Mark A., Major, USAF, School of Advanced Airpower Studies, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA425629]])

The US remains unalterably a maritime nation, dependent on the seas which provide the avenues for our commerce and the links to our allies and friends. ...Naval forces are uniquely valuable to the Nation for they provide special advantages and flexible options in their employment.11 These two excerpts neatly summarize current Navy and Marine Corps philosophy on the role of maritime forces in a power projection contingency. The amphibious warfare strategy follows the Navy's three-phase approach, describing how Marine forces will operate across the spectrum of conflict. A Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) can be selectively tailored to fit a given task and rapidly deploy by sea or airlift. Marine forces can perform special operations, act as a combined air-sea-land expeditionary force, or accomplish forcible entries. According to one Marine Corps publication, amphibious forces "provide an unmatched forcible entry capability. Great emphasis is placed on forward presence as the key to conventional deterrence. Forward presence is enhanced through the peacetime deployment of forces such as the III Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF) in the Pacific and a Marine Expeditionary Unit (Special Operations Capable) in the Mediterranean. Maritime prepositioning ships in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Ocean carry 30 days of supplies for a Marine Amphibious Brigade. All of these assets have the effect of reducing response time in the event of a regional crisis. The ability to respond quickly with forces tailored for a particular contingency give the Marine Corps a significant capability to act as an expeditionary force. According to General Kelley, characteristics such as the ability to forward deploy, independently loiter for extended periods of time, or rapidly move ashore have made Navy-Marine forces the traditional instrument of choice "particularly in the early stages of a crisis response. 14 Forward-deployed Marine units such as amphibious ready groups (ARGs) serve as a "visible and credible indicator of American capability to react to sudden, unforeseen crises involving U.S. interests. ì15 These units can loiter over the horizon at sea without a need for forward basing or external sustainment, ready to assault the beach if so ordered. A force structure that is deployable, sustainable, and has an excellent forced-entry capability presumably enables the Marines Corps to "meet the national need for an expeditionary/rapid deployment force.î16 In the final analysis, one of the most cherished traditions of the Marine Corps is their past history as the nation's expeditionary force. Whether or not they will remain so in the future is hotly contested. In his 1989 testimony to the Senate Armed Service Committee, Commandant of the Marine Corps General Alfred M. Gray said the Marine Corps remained this nation's expeditionary force ready to respond to a wide range of crises without the need for mobilization

And, GPS key to disaster relief

Wussler 08 (“Global Positioning Systems: Space-Based PNT for Today and Tomorrow,” Col. Donald E., Vice Commander Global Positioning Systems Wing, Los Angeles AFB, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

In addition to automobile and handheld consumer devices, GPS has become the commercial mainstay of transportation systems worldwide, providing navigation for aviation, ground, and maritime operations. Farmers use precision navigation through GPS and an augmentation system to plow, cultivate, and harvest their fields. Surprisingly to many people, auto-pilot assisted/controlled vehicles will probably be realized in the near future. Civil aviation is continuously increasing its reliance on satellite-based navigation in preparation for the expected increase in air traffic. Aircraft can actually fly user-specified routes from point-to-point with reduced dependency on ground infrastructure, resulting in enhanced landing approaches. The potential savings from these improvements to civil aviation stem from increased efficiency of the air traffic control infrastructure. Life-saving missions, including disaster relief and emergency services currently depend on GPS for locating victims and deploying resources. The potential savings in human life and resources worldwide are astounding. Even everyday, commonplace activities such as banking, mobile phone operations, and control of power grids are facilitated by the accurate timing provided by GPS.

And, Disaster relief key to naval power projection and maritime soft power

Salenga 9 (Commander Edilberto M., United States Navy, “Developing soft power Using afloat medical, Capability”, 02/03/2009, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA500907]], BBQ)

The new Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, released in October 2007, supports the objectives of National Defense Strategy. In as much as the theme of spreading democracy dominated former President Bush’s 2006 National Security Strategy, the theme of “global naval cooperation” dominates the new maritime strategy. The Honorable Donald Winter, Secretary of the Navy, clarifying the inclusion of soft power and shift from major power projection, stated in an interview regarding the new strategy: “We can’t do things unilaterally...not all things, not all places.”3 Given that the new strategy still includes hard power requirements, the inclusion of soft power applications that are comparable with naval power projection and deterrence make the new maritime strategy quite different from the previous strategies. The Navy has traditionally been used to address conventional threats by projecting firepower from the sea, but this orientation may not be the best for the 21st century security environment. The Navy, in its effort to maintain relevance in the long war that does not necessary require heavy projection of firepower, has now embarked on this new cooperative course. The strategy which was signed by the three sea service chiefs is unprecedented; it added a new mindset for the application of naval power, “preventing wars is as important as winning wars.”4 By proactively establishing relationships in peacetime, the U.S. will be able to mitigate human suffering in conjunction with interagency and multinational efforts, both in a deliberate, proactive fashion and in response to crisis. The human suffering moves us to react and the expeditionary nature of our maritime naval assets uniquely positions them to provide assistance. In addition, the ability to conduct rapid and sustained non-combatant evacuation operations is critical to relieving the plight of American citizens and others when their safety is in jeopardy.5 Although the sea services conduct many missions that include forward presence, deterrence, sea control, power projection, and maritime security; the relatively new core competencies of humanitarian assistance and disaster response capabilities comprise the core of U.S. soft maritime power and reflect an increase in emphasis on those activities that prevent war and build partnerships. Its expanded maritime strategic core capabilities of forces that can respond to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief if natural or manmade disasters strike is impressive. Naval forces have routinely been made available during peace time and humanitarian operations due to natural calamities that the new strategy places the soft power of “global cooperation” equal to naval hard power pillars of power projection and deterrence is unprecedented.

And, Heg key to global stability and accesses every major impact

Thayer 6 (Professor of Strategic Studies, Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei­ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri­macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in­terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis­es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa­bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa­bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri­macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action­ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur­ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec­tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re­trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat­ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can­not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror­ists, rogue states or rising powers, his­tory shows that threats must be confront­ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc­ing half‑pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak­ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna­tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront­ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys­ical, on‑the‑ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com­mon"‑‑the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space‑allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca­pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today‑-in a world where Ameri­can primacy is clearly and unambiguous­ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ­their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America‑-their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements‑and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun­try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy‑-and the bandwagon­ing effect‑has also given us extensive in­fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre­ate coalitions of like‑minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro­liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American‑led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec­tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun­tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac­tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re­sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica­tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases‑‑Venezuela, Iran, Cuba‑it is an anti‑U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin­sically anti‑American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power‑‑Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol­ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con­sider the current international order ‑ free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas­ing respect for human rights, growing de­mocratization‑‑is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol­lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With­out U.S. power, the liberal order cre­ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing­ton and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela­tionships aligned‑-between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de­mocracy and other elements of its ideol­ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter­ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead­ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin­istration for attempting to spread democ­racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit­ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta­bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per­haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af­ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat­ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash­ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western‑style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku­wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob­al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character­ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo­bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob­al public good from which all states ben­efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well‑being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin‑offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca­reer confident in the socialist ideology of post‑independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog­nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza­tion, which are facilitated through Amer­ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

1ac Solvency

CONTENTION FOUR IS SOLVENCY

No alt causes – GPS II tech development on schedule – plan ensures 2014 delivery

Defense Daily Network 10/10 (“Lockheed Martin Powers on the GPS III Pathfinder,” 10/10/11, [[http://www.defensedaily.com/press_releases/201110101100PR_NEWS_USPR_____SF82773.html]])

The Lockheed Martin (NYSE : LMT) team developing the U.S. Air Force's next generation Global Positioning System has turned on initial power to the program's pathfinder spacecraft, known as the GPS III Non Flight Satellite Testbed (GNST). The milestone gives the team high confidence in meeting the scheduled launch of the first GPS III satellite in 2014. The GPS III program is the lowest risk solution to constellation sustainment and the most affordable path to meet the needs of military, commercial and civilian users worldwide. GPS III will improve position, navigation and timing services and provide advanced anti-jam capabilities yielding superior system security, accuracy and reliability. With a focus on affordability, the GPS III team is first developing the GNST, a full-sized prototype of the GPS III spacecraft used to identify and solve issues prior to the first space vehicle. This approach significantly reduces risk, improves production predictability, increases mission assurance and lowers overall program costs. The GNST, populated with fully functional non-flight boxes, provides space vehicle design level validation; early verification of ground, support, and test equipment; and early confirmation and rehearsal of transportation operations. "Turning initial power on for the GNST is a major milestone for the GPS III team demonstrating we are well on track to deliver the first satellite for launch in 2014," said LtCol Don Frew, the U.S. Air Force's GPS III program manager. "Our joint government and industry team is committed to delivering GPS III on schedule to sustain and modernize the GPS constellation for users worldwide." The GPS III team has installed power subsystem components, harnesses, and tracking, telemetry and control hardware on the GNST structure to support phased checkout of the integrated design. Flight software versions have also been delivered for all of the spacecraft and payload computer processors. In parallel, GPS III teammate ITT is integrating the GNST Navigation Payload at their facility in Clifton, NJ. Successfully powering on the GNST demonstrates initial mechanical integration, validates the GNST's interfaces and leads the way for electrical and integrated hardware-software testing. The GNST will be shipped to Lockheed Martin's GPS III Processing Facility in Denver late this year to demonstrate Assembly, Integration and Test procedures. It will then be delivered to Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in the summer for 2012 for pathfinding activities at the launch site. "Together with the Air Force, we continue to meet major program milestones on or ahead of schedule and we are committed to delivering GPS III spacecraft affordably and efficiently," said Keoki Jackson, Lockheed Martin's GPS III program director. "Our progress on the GNST is already saving the program money, eliminating risk early and providing highly reliable mission assurance for GPS constellation sustainment." Building on lessons learned from previous GPS space programs; the U.S. Air Force's GPS III acquisition approach is considered by many to be the model for future space acquisition. The program has reinstated rigorous technical specifications and standards, and placed a strong emphasis on systems engineering with a robust mission assurance process. These actions provide the basis for verifying the quality of the technical work and ensuring issues are surfaced and corrected earlier in the program. For GPS III, Lockheed Martin is building on its proven record of delivering highly reliable GPS spacecraft. The fleet of Lockheed Martin-built GPS IIR and IIR-M satellites makes up the majority of the operational GPS constellation. The satellites have exceeded 140 cumulative operational years on-orbit with a reliability record of better than 99.9 percent. Lockheed Martin heritage also dates back to the production of the Oscar and Nova satellites, the programs that paved the way to the current GPS system.

Here’s our advocate – fund the president’s request

Casey 9/12 (“Casey Pushes for GPS Program to Support National Security and Jobs in Bucks County,” Senator Bob Casey, 9/12/11, [[http://casey.senate.gov/newsroom/press/release/?id=4767c961-e7da-4bbc-977a-dfe8c3c08bc1]])

I greatly appreciate the funding constraints that the Defense Subcommittee must work under in drafting a fiscal 2012 defense appropriations bill. However, given the strong track record of the GPS III program, and the system’s importance to our military forces and the nation’s economic competitiveness, GPS III is a solid and wise investment in our military and the nation’s future. Accordingly, I request that the Subcommittee support the President’s requests for the GPS III program included in both the Air Force Research, Development, Test and Evaluation budget and the Air Force Missile Procurement budget.

And, No one will attack GPS – whole world uses it

Walske 10 (“Vulnerabilities of the Global Positioning System and the Impact on the Iron Triad: The AWACS, JSTARS, and Rivet Joint Fleets,” Mark J., Major, USAF, US Army Command and Staff College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA524209]])

This too is a risk to US satellites. A kinetic attack weapon need not hit a satellite directly if instead it could place debris in or near the path of its orbiting target. Regardless, Michael Krepon, president emeritus of the Henry L. Stimson Center, stated in an interview that the Chinese test appeared to be a political statement challenging US superiority in space. It is unlikely that the Chinese would openly attack the GPS constellation considering the international reliance on GPS for everything from civil air traffic navigation to precision timing for banking transactions. However, with the emergence of other GNSS, the protection of deterrence may lessen due to the availability of alternative navigation and timing sources should a potentially hostile nation attempt to degrade the US military’s precision strike capability

And, Consult with every actor normal means

Wong and Clore 08 (“Promoting International Civil GNSS Cooperation Through Diplomacy,” Alice A., Senior Advisor for GPS Issues US Department of State, and Ray E., Senior Advisor for GPS-Galileo Issues US Department of State, High Frontier, the Journal for Space & Missile Professionals, May 2008, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080522-087.pdf]])

The US has many productive bilateral relationships on satellite navigation issues. US-Japanese cooperation on GPS has included regular policy and technical consultations since 1996 and is currently based on the 1998 Clinton-Obuchi Joint Statement. Japan’s MT-SAT Satellite Based Augmentation System, which was declared operational in September 2007, is fully compatible and interoperable with GPS. Japan’s Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS), which will improve GPS coverage over Japan, has also been designed to be compatible and interoperable with GPS. The US is working with Japan to set up QZSS monitoring stations in Hawaii and Guam. The European Union and the US signed a GPS-Galileo Cooperation Agreement in 2004. We jointly designed a new civil signal modulation known as MBOC (multiplexed binary offset carrier) that will be used on both GPS III and the Galileo open service. We also confirmed compatibility and interoperability between the planned signals known as L5 on GPS and E5a on Galileo. Aside from technical cooperation, we have opened channels for bilateral communication on issues related to trade and civil applications, next-generation GNSS, and security. We have started a joint outreach initiative intended to promote the future user benefits of a combined GPS-Galileo service. Russia and the US have been negotiating a GPS-GLONASS Cooperation Agreement since 2004. Productive technical working group meetings have been held. Russia is considering a proposal for GLONASS to adopt two new civil code division multiple access signals at L1 and L5 which will be interoperable with GPS, supporting an emerging international consensus on use of L1 and L5 for interoperable civil signals. India and the US have had policy and technical consultations on GPS cooperation underway since 2005. Interoperability between the US government supported wide area augmentation system and India’s planned GPS and GEO Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) system based on GPS, has been agreed. The US and India are also discussing greater interoperability between GPS and the planned India Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS). US and India recently conducted a productive GPS-IRNSS interoperability and compatibility working group and an ITU coordination meeting in Bangalore in January of 2008. In addition to Indian efforts, the US also held a GPS policy and technical consultation with Australia in April of 2007 leading to the signing of a joint delegation statement on GPS cooperation.