[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
for cites / requests: [[mailto:benneb123@gmail.com|benneb123@gmail.com]]
==Sustain== 
===1AC state (most recent)=== 
<span class="Underline"> plan</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should employ orbital capsules for Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion capabilities, incorporating the Scorpius launch system.</span>
<span class="Underline">1AC – solvency</span>
<span class="Underline">Contention 1: Solvency.</span>

<span class="Underline">Orbital capsules make SUSTAIN cheap and feasible</span>
<span class="Underline">Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> For SUSTAIN, a man-carrying capsule decelerates aerodynamically during re-entry, decelerates further with a parachute or parasail, and cushions the final impact with small solid-fuelled rockets. Extraction of individual team members could be accomplished by using Fulton Recovery Systems on them individually or by lifting the capsule containing the team to several thousand feet AGL with the capsule abort rocket system and then snagging it in midair with a cargo aircraft. The basic technology for this approach has been demonstrated over the past ½ century. Most of the technology elements for the Scorpius Sprite and Exodus have been demonstrated and even flown. Therefore, SUSTAIN could be implemented rapidly and inexpensively. The major remaining developmental element is the capsule. Major impediments to implementing SUSTAIN fall within the political, economic, and policy arenas. A side benefit of combining our approach to SUSTAIN with the USAF Responsive Space concept is an end result of a simple, cheap, responsive space launch vehicle series with remaining development costs spread between several programs. </span>


<span class="Underline">Multiple factors hinder the US’s ability to respond quickly to global events in the status quo.</span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> 3.1 SOCOM Capability Gaps 3.1.1 Functional Concept Component The primary functional component deficiency that this CONOPS addresses is a projection that given current trends, USSOCOM will lack an Expeditionary Attribute of tempo dominance in the future. In coming years there will exist a gap between SOF's real-time, speed-of-light awareness of details regarding unfolding global contingencies and their actual ability to respond relevantly and effectively to said contingencies. From the standpoints of relative tempo, operational security (OPSEC), and geographic proximity, SOF teams will become less rapidly deployable, employable, and sustainable throughout the global battlespace relative to the tempo of adversary actions. Anti-access and area-denial environments combined with longer range and more lethal adversary weapons will compound this relatively slowed responsiveness. SOCOM elements will not be capable of rapid deployment and immediate employment, or be capable of seamlessly handing off to conventional forces for sustained operations as a crisis or conflict develops. 3.1.2 Operational Mission and Function Deficiencies While the speed of terrestrial and national security space Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities is keeping pace with the accelerated tempo of localized events in the modem world, the ability of SOF teams to physically respond (troops on the ground) at any global locality is not. If this deficiency is not resolved, SOCOM will become increasingly less capable of appearing on the scene to respond relevantly and effectively to exploit strategic opportunities or minimize strategic damage at the earliest stages of a contingency. To illustrate the deficiencies, the following functions that are essential for SOF in order that the military objectives of the JFC and/or the NCA are achieved, increasingly cannot be performed without unacceptable limitations. 3.1.2.1 Mobility and Maneuver A deficiency exists with respect to SOCOM's ability to deliver tailored SOF teams to any terrestrial point globally in order to act on current intelligence. Instead, SOF insertion options are limited by speed, range, signature, and vulnerability of evolutionary aerospace, land and undersea insertion technologies, as well as the vulnerability of expeditionary delivery platforms. The highest speed of global SOCOM insertion from CON US is limited to that of jet aircraft arriving within the constraints of in-flight refueling, foreign airspace over-flight restrictions, non permissive air-defense environments, and the possible absence of suitable airfields. It should be noted that airspace sovereignty is commonly accepted as extending to an altitude of 50 miles above the surface of the earth. Similarly, the highest speed of global surface SOP movement is limited to that of ships, boats, assault amphibians, hovercraft, wheeled and tracked land vehicles, and combat swimmers, all significantly slower than terrestrial aviation platforms. Other constraints include underway replenishment, 12-mile littoral coastal sovereignty, emergent antiship threats, and known challenges of overland movement in restrictive or non-peimissive land combat environments. 3.1.2.2 Firepower The weapons that will threaten independently operating SOF in the 21st Century will continue to advance in terms of range, speed, and lethality. The pace of the advancements in adversary tactical, offensive anti-air, land, and surface threat capabilities has been greater than the pace of the U.S.'s capability to counter them with improvements to protection and conventional kinetic weapons technologies alone. Revolutionary weapons capabilities are needed to preserve assault support insertion of SOP as a viable course of action for the JFC.</span>

<span class="Underline">Frequency and tempo of crises are increasing and speed is becoming more important. SUSTAIN is key.</span>
<span class="Underline">Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">One could easily argue that the stated USMC space mobility requirement begs the question, “Why do the Marines and the nation need the ability to send troops through space?” The world is changing. Enemies in The Long War on Terror and of the nation’s future are not limited by borders. In his provocative work, The Clash of Civilizations?, Samuel Huntington hypothesized that in the coming years “the dominating source of conflict will be cultural…the principal conflicts of global politics will occur between nations and groups of different civilizations.” 5 He goes on to say that while conflicts between states will still exist “the fault lines between civilizations will be the battle lines of the future.” 6 With the increase in globalization, one cannot necessarily draw these “fault lines” on a map—they defy borders and span the globe. This trend is sure to continue, and, as such, we must be prepared to appear anywhere in the world within seconds, minutes, or a few hours versus many hours, days, or more. Conceivably the around U.S. military will need to respond quickly to multiple locations around the world simultaneously. Forward presence of military units the world may be sufficient in some cases; however, we likely will not have the force size or political will to maintain the level of forward presence required to respond to the emerging set of conflicts. Space has the potential to afford us this global flexibility and responsiveness. United States Special Operations Command expanded upon these thoughts in its 2004 Special Operations Forces Space Enabling Concept (SOFSEC). They foresee that a dangerous, 4 uncertain strategic environment with a dramatically increasing range of threats will continue to pose challenges in the future. The following elements characterize this future strategic environment: “military power will continue to be required to protect…U.S. global interests”; the “battlespace will continue to be global, if not universal”; “the speed and scale of the proliferation of…technology and CBRNE weapons will continue to increase”; 7 “adversaries will have greater access…to sophisticated capabilities”; and “adversaries will continue to adapt as U.S. capabilities evolve.” 8 Tapping into the global reach capabilities that space power offers will allow the US and its Allies to handle the complex contingencies that will continue to litter the international landscape. In light of the changing world situation, the USMC has predicted that in 25 to 30 years they will need to send a “squad-sized unit of Marines any place on the Earth in less than two hours time.” 9 As stated in their 2002 Universal Needs Statement (UNS) for the Small Unit Space Transport and INsertion (SUSTAIN) capability, “the Marine Corps needs a capability to transport small, mission-tailored units through space from any point on the globe to a contingency at any other point on the globe within minutes.” 10 The Marines like to refer to the concept as getting 13 thinking “brains” on the ground at the earliest stage of a crisis rather than 13 sets of “boots.” Based on the UNS, the SUSTAIN capability should have the following characteristics: negligible sensor cross-section, kinetic air defense survivability, flexibility to enter and sustain low earth orbit, transport of up to 13 combat-equipped personnel (not including the transport crew), flexible launch on demand, combined arms weapons suite for self-defense and fire support, multiple personnel insertion options (high altitude, low altitude, ground), unrefueled transport operation for entire mission cycle, vertical and/or short takeoff and landing (V/STOL), avoidance of foreign airspace overflight restrictions, and post-mission extraction 5 ability. Appendix A contains the full text of the UNS as well as the unpublished draft Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). Marine Colonel J. R. Wassink, head of the Information Operations and Space Integration Branch at the USMC Pentagon headquarters offered anecdotal evidence as to the need for faster response times. Regarding the 04 November 1979 capture of 66 American civilians at the US diplomatic mission in Tehran, Col Wassink pondered, “What could have been done if we could have rapidly reinforced the embassy in Iran? Could we have avoided the [14-month] hostage crisis?” He went on to say that time, distance, and access issues have caused the Marines to reconsider their options for future expeditionary warfare: “We looked at space because you don’t have to worry about overflight. [Also], a prepositioned MEU with a V-22 or C-17 still takes many times longer than two hours to get there.” 11 Similar to the USMC need, Special Operations Forces (SOF) require “responsive unmanned lift for systems and high loiter vehicles that support persistent and pervasive operational awareness…launched on short notice into space.” 12 Although the stated SOF requirement only asks for responsive, flexible, unmanned access to space, many of the requisite technologies are the same. Certainly with SOF’s rare ability to exploit new technology, USSOCOM would also jump at the opportunity to transport a SOF team anywhere in less than two hours. From an Air Force perspective, the preponderance of effort related to flexible, rapid space access comes from the Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) program. According to the Mission Needs Statement (MNS), one of the four ORS required key capabilities is “recoverable, rapid-response transport to, through, and from space,” and any ORS systems must be responsive, maneuverable, operable, economical, survivable, interoperable, and flexible. 13 The SUSTAIN 6 concept falls well within this mission space. Additionally, Maj Bob Lancaster, an Air Force Security Forces officer who worked the Security Forces Transformation project, immediately recognized Air Force applications that stem from the USMC concept. He postulated that “if [the USMC and SOF] mission is base seizure, and they get there in under two hours, the follow-on forces (Security Forces, etc.) will need to get there quickly as well.” 14 Career logistician Maj Andy Hunt of HQ USAF/A9 also acknowledged utility in the concept for Air Force rapid resupply missions stating that “from a logistics standpoint it would be fantastic.” 15 The obvious implication of responsive space launch is the fast, flexible, precise global delivery of “stuff” (i.e., people, equipment, weapons, or other assets). An important side benefit of this precise global delivery is the global range that it affords, thus avoiding much of the costs, force protection, sustainment, and foreign access requirements of forward bases. 16 Furthermore, one can easily envision other benefits of this type of capability: point-to-point high-value cargo delivery, long range strike and precision global strike (PGS), or, if extended to orbital applications, responsive satellite replenishment, satellite repair, or astronaut recovery. Col Wassink would like to see in the DoD an “increased recognition of emerging types of missions (i.e., take PGS a step further to be not just Global Strike but ‘Global Intervention’—expand the mission set to more than just kinetic but to global influence.” 17 The author dubbed this concept “rapid precision global intervention,” or the ability to take the full range of capabilities quickly and accurately anywhere in the world to achieve the desired effects. The reader will see this concept throughout this paper.</span>

<span class="Underline">SUSTAIN works logistically </span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]</span>
<span class="Underline">2 4 Support and Sustainment Concepts (DOTMLPF) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Doctrine. The SUSTAIN capability is necessarily designed around what is known today of basic Warfighter organization at the SOF team. The small unit as defined in SUSTAIN is 12-14 personnel for specific reasons. It is the size of the team element that is basic to USSOCOM. 12-14 combat personnel is approximately the traditional design parameter for tactical assault support platforms, whether they were surface ground, water, transport helicopter, or tilt-rotor aircraft. This unit size has even been employed as the stick parameter used for combat gliders, a platform that was conceptually a functional forerunner of` SUSTAIN. The assumption is that the enduring utility of the squad-team sized unit as the smallest viable combat element will continue to be its capability to conduct limited independent operations, especially within the Special Operations Command (SOCOM) construct. Furthermore, the technology-enabled warfighting capacity of` small units will increase. Organization. A SUSTAIN Family of Assault Support Capabilities (SUSTAIN FASC) is envisioned as a revolutionary follow-on to evolutionary air, land, and sea assault support, even if` only as a complimentary capability. Once SUSTAIN has matured in the SOCOM operating environment, the physical SUSTAIN capability could be fielded and manned in quantities similar to Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAV) Battalions or Assault Support Squadrons. Logistics, Command and Control (C2) and fire support capabilities variants would be fielded and organized in appropriately complementary numbers. Principles of attachment, cross-attachment, direct support, and general support would apply as they do for other assault support and tire support platforms. SUSTAIN Composite Squadrons are conceivable. Under a Space Force or Space Service the SUSTAIN capability, matured in operations by USSOCOM, could expand to have broad general utility.</span>

<span class="Underline">Launch systems have already been developed – minimal further investment required</span>
<span class="Underline">Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> This quantity of development funding is almost certainly beyond current US political and economic feasibility. An alternative approach is to exploit that which already exists and which was developed under other funding arrangements. For example, as part of the Responsive Space initiatives, Microcosm developed a conceptual low cost rapidly deployed launch system (Scorpius). Much of the preliminary development cost for this series of vehicles has been spent and hardware has been developed. THE MICROCOSM APPROACH The analysis given above suggests a concept close to the Scorpius launch system studied, partially developed, and demonstrated by Microcosm 5 . The Sprite vehicle payload of 1,060 pounds to LEO and the Exodus vehicle payload of 19,700 pounds to LEO are sufficient to meet the launch requirements of the USAF UAV and the SUSTAIN capsule, respectively, with comfortable margins. The Scorpius system uses a series of seven essentially identical modules – 6 for the first stage in a hexagonal array and one for the second stage nested in the center of the first stage array. All are pressure-fed with ablatively-cooled motors, thus minimizing the propulsion system parts count. Each individual module is extremely simple and easily storable with minimal difficulty. By running the 6 first stage modules in parallel with the second stage located within the hexagonal array, the overall vehicle aspect ratio is low and sensitivity to wind shear is minimal. That allows launch in hurricane level winds. The overall characteristics of the Scorpius launch vehicle family are shown in Table 6. [TABLE 6 REMOVED] Scorpius has a proprietary pressurization system that end-runs many of the disadvantages of conventional pressurization systems and provides roughly a 50 percent mass savings over stored Helium gas and associated tankage for propellant pressurization. This system uses Tridyne (Helium with small, noncombustible quantities of Hydrogen and Oxygen added) 6 . The Tridyne is run over a catalyst bed and the Hydrogen and Oxygen react to form water vapor and release heat. Some of the heat is transferred back to the stored Tridyne tank to prevent cooling by expansion as the gas is depleted. The remainder heats the Helium (and the small amount of water vapor) used for propellant pressurization to a typical temperature of 200 to 250 degrees F. The most important aspect of Scorpius is that all major systems have been tested in flight. A basic module was flown with a partial propellant load (to avoid overflying the range limits) at White Sands some years ago. The flight took place within hours of pulling up to the concrete pad with vehicle, fuel truck, etc. This demonstrated responsiveness. A scalable and inexpensive growth path has been defined. This history of Scorpius launch system development establishes a significant portion of the overall technology. The estimated remaining development cost for the complete Scorpius series up to and including the Exodus launch vehicle is less than $256 million. The unit launch costs for Exodus are estimated to be $26.7 million. Therefore, incorporation of the Scorpius Exodus into SUSTAIN would reduce estimated development costs by about 71 percent relative to the clean sheet approach. The remaining high cost item would be the capsule. Using a cheap, modular, very simple expendable launch vehicle may seem to be a backwards approach, but an expendable Scorpius can be envisioned with unit costs much less than the amortized research and development on a reusable launch vehicle unless many thousands of flights are envisioned per vehicle. SUSTAIN would be anticipated to be a low frequency use system that would not allow for amortizing the development costs incurred in a dedicated reusable launch vehicle. Extensive reusability is not easily attained from current technology, which has demonstrated partial reusability of on the order of only 100 flights. One can argue that airplane-like operations are not going to be attained with reusable space launch vehicles in the near term regardless of what one hears from the alt.space community. This has been extensively discussed in other documents for commercial suborbital sounding rockets and for orbital launchers 7,8,9.</span>



<span class="Underline">1AC – terror</span>
<span class="Underline">Contention 2: terrorism</span>

<span class="Underline">SUSTAIN is key to fight terrorism– interception of high value targets, reconnaissance, PSYOPS, and foreign stabilization</span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse, ‘8 – Paul Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">United States Special Operations Command's (USSOCOM) is the principle intended user of the SUSTAIN capability. In fact, the inspiration behind the SUSTAIN concept originally emerged from an evident capability gap, namely the limitations of terrestrial air-speeds and the need for overflight rights that have hampered SOCOM missions in the past. Specifically, the inability to rapidly insert specialized teams into Afghanistan from the U.S, within hours of the events of 9/ 11 may have caused strategic opportunities to be missed. In an effort to fill that gap, SUSTAIN is primarily intended to support of SOCOM's core missions related to rapidly intercepting unsecured Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), globally, as well as conducting hot pursuit of high value strategic targets during the hours of vulnerability that they are exposed. The Title l() Service-specific gaps that can be materially fulfilled with a SUSTAIN capability will overwhelmingly be executed through Service Components that contribute to the USSOCOM organization. In consideration of the SUSTAIN-relevant operational needs that have been expressed to date this pertains to Air Force and Marine Corps in dthe form of AFSOC and MARSOC. However, other Service organizations will also benefit from SUSTAIN for the purpose of transporting and inserting small specialized teams globally. Specific beneficiaries include Air Force Security Forces (AFSF), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR), the Marine Corps Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company (ANGLICO), and Special Operations Capable Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUSOC). It is envisioned that these non-SOCOM sourced capabilities would be employed in conjunction with or governed entirely by SOCOM as specialized attachments to SOCOM units in support of SOCOM missions. What follows is a discussion of the various SOCOM and Service core missions that SUSTAIN would enable: 4.1 U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Core Missions USSOQOM plans, directs and executes special operations in conduct of the War on Terrorism in order to disrupt, defeat, and destroy terrorist networks that threaten the United States, its citizens and interests worldwide. USSOCOM organizes, trains, and equips Special Operations Forces provided to Geographic Combatant Commanders, American Ambassadors and their Country Teams. ln order to accomplish its Combatant Command mission, USSOCOM has been assigned the following core tasks: Counterterrorism (CT), Counter-proliferation (CP), of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Special Reconnaissance (SR), Direct Action (DA), Unconventional Warfare (UW), Information Operation (l 0), Psychological Operations (PSYOP), Foreign internal Defense (FID), and Civil Affairs Operations (CAO). The relation of the SUSTAIN capability to each is detailed below: 4.1.1 Counterterrorism (CT) CT is SOCOM's number one mission. CT produces effective protective measures to reduce the probability of a successful terrorist attack against U.S. interests. This task involves offensive measures taken to prevent, deter, preempt, and respond to terorism. SOF are specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct covert, clandestine, or discreet CT mission in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments. These missions include, but are not limited to intelligence operations, attacks against terrorist networks and infrastructures, hostage rescue, recovery of sensitive material from terrorist organizations, and non-kinetic activities aimed at the ideologies or motivations that spawn terrorism. SUSTAIN offers SOP the heretofore nonexistent option for the earliest unopposed insertion of tailored CT teams around the globe. 4.1.2 Counter Proliferation (CP) of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) CP refers to actions taken to support DoD and other govemmental agencies to prevent, limit and/or minimize the development, possession, and employment of weapons of mass destruction, new advanced weapons, and advanced-weapon-capable technologies. The major objectives of DOD policy are to prevent acquisition of WM D and missile capabilities (i.e. preventive defense), roll back proliferation where it has occurred, deter the use of WMD and their delivery systems, and adapt U.S. military forces and planning to operate against the threats posed by WMD and their delivery systems. SOP provides unique capabilities to monitor and support DOD policy. SUSTAIN offers SOF the heretofore non-existent option for the earliest interception of WMD when a fleeting opportunity presents itself. 4.1.3 Special Reconnaissance (SR) This is reconnaissance and surveillance actions conducted as special operations in hostile, denied or politically sensitive environments to collect or verify information of strategic or operational significance, employing military capabilities not normally found in conventional forces. These actions provide an additive capability for commanders and may supplement other intelligence collection when conventional reconnaissance and surveillance actions are limited by weather, terrain, or adversary countermeasures. SUSTAIN may be the only alternative for the insertion of SR for missions of strategic importance where time, distance, and overflight challenges are severe. 4.1.4 Direct Action (DA) DA is the conduct of short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as a special operation in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments to seize, destroy, care, exploit, recover, or damage designated targets of strategic or operational significance, employing specialized military capabilities. Direct action differs from conventional offensive actions in the level of physical and political risk, operational techniques, and the use of discriminating force to achieve specific objectives. SUSTAIN offers the DA mission the elements of speed, surprise and shock. The DA mission will also benefit from the vehicle's organic capabilities. In addition to an organic advanced combined arms weapons suite, the SUSTAIN vehicle(s) will possess a C4 suite that is fully integrated with and actively contributing to the global common operating picture. This includes SUSTAIN ability to facilitate a seamless broad spectrum of secure communications for coordinating requested fires from outside the theater with the team's plans for extraction. This will also permit coordination between the Joint Force Commander and higher, adjacent and subordinate elements throughout the battlespace and globally. 4.1.5 Unconventional Warfare (UW) UW involves a broad spectrum of military and paramilitary operations, normally of a long duration. UW is predominantly conducted by, with, or through indigenous or sunogate forces that are organized, trained, equipped, supported, and directed in varying degrees by an external source. UW includes guerrilla warfare and other direct offensive, low-visibility, covert, or clandestine operations, as well as the indirect activities of subversion, sabotage, intelligence activities, and unconventional assisted recovery. SUSTAIN can serve as a speedy long-range insertion capability for teams when time is short. 4.1.6 Information Operations (IO) These are actions taken to influence, affect or defend information, information systems and decision-making. SUSTAIN will have the operational capacity to assist the SOCOM detachment to the Joint Force Commander in the achievement of IO objectives. The SUSTAIN IO capability-set will include Electronic Warfare (EW), Computer Network Operations, Psychological Operations (PSYOPS), Operations Security (OPSEC), and Military Deception. The IO potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.7 Psychological Operations (PSYOP) PSYOPS are planned operations to convey truthful information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and ultimately, the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and individuals. The purpose of PSYOP is to induce or reinforce foreign attitudes and behaviors favorable to the originator's objectives. Similarly to IO, the PSYOPS potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.8 Foreign Internal Defense (FID) FLD is one of SOCOM's primary peacetime missions. lt is designed to help friendly developing nations by working with their military and police forces to improve their technical skills, understanding of human rights issues, and to help with humanitarian and civic action projects. Special Forces unconventional warfare capabilities provide a viable military option for a variety of operational taskings that are inappropriate or infeasible for conventional forces. Special Forces are the U.S. military's premier unconventional warfare force. Participation by civilian or military agencies of a government in any of the action programs taken by another government or other designated organization to free their society from subversion, lawlessness, and insurgency. SOF's primary contribution to this interagency activity is to organize, train, advise, and assist host-nation (HN) military and paramilitary forces. The goal is to enable these forces to maintain the HN's intemal stability, to counter subversion and violence in their country, and to address the causes of instability. Early SUSTAIN-enabled insertion of FID teams can be critical in a time of crisis, especially when HN civil authority is breaking down. 4.1.9 Civil Affairs Operations (CAO) CAO constitutes operations consisting of civil affairs (CA) activities and specialized support provided to commanders responsible for conducting civil military operations (CMO). CA activities involve establishing and conducting military government or civil administration until civilian authority or government can be restored or transitioned to other appropriate authorities. CA supports CMO by focusing efforts to minimize civilian interference with military operations and limit the adverse impact of military operations on civilian populations and resources.</span>

<span class="Underline">Terrorists are fanatics – new terrorism will be apocalyptic not political </span>
<span class="Underline">Walter Laqueur, ‘3 – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study; holocaust survivor [No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">It was only to be expected that there should be voices arguing that the events of September 2001 had been unique and unlikely to recur, as time had passed without many major terrorist attacks. Memories are short and wishful thinking is deeply rooted. Terrorism will be given less attention if a full scale war breaks out. But no war lasts forever. It is too expensive in every respect in our day and age, whereas terrorism is relatively cheap and will be with us for as long as anyone can envision, even if not always at the same frequency and intensity. Terrorism has become the subject of a great deal of study, comment, debate, and controversy. There has been an enormous amount of comment on the roots of terrorism as well as the best ways to deal with it. Unfortunately, these debates have been distinguished very often more by passion and emotion (and, of course, preconceived notions) than by knowledge and insight. The history of terrorism remains an essential key to understanding the phenomenon; most of the new terms that have appeared in the literature in recent years refer to concepts that have always been known since time immemorial. Guerrilla warfare and terrorism were always “asymmetric warfare,” and the discovery that terrorists need “failed countries” (or regions of failed countries) would have been considered less than sensational in biblical times, let alone by Mao Tse-tung (from the caves of Adulam to the caves of Yenan). But past experience is no longer the only key for understanding terrorism. The crucial new elements are, as I tried to show in a book several years ago, easier access to weapons of mass destruction and the greater importance of religious-political fanaticism as a motive. At the present time, radical Islamism is the single most important force, and it will probably remain so for a considerable time to come. But there is always the danger of being blinded by current events; radical Islamism was not always the main threat and it may not always be in the future. There is no authoritative systematic guide to terrorism – no Clausewitz, not even a Jomini – and perhaps there never will be one, simply because there is not one terrorism but a variety of terrorism and what is true for one does not necessarily apply to others. There are major obstacles on the road toward understanding terrorism; perhaps no other topic in our time has provoked such violent emotions. Those who have been commenting with the greatest assurance on terrorism are usually concerened with one group, ethnic or political. they are not preoocupied with the general phenomemon of terrorism, but the fate and interests of the specific group with which they identify with or oppose. Those preoocupied with terrorism in the Israeli-Palestinian context (except for a small group of professional experts) are usually unwilling to give even passing thought to events in Algeria or Sri Lanka; the fact that, to give another example, suicide terrorism occurs in various parts of the world and not just in one will merely be regarded as confusing by those engaging in sweeping generalizatiosn on the subject. People preoccupied with the Kashmir conflict have little interest in events in Colombia or the Balkans – faraway countries about which little is known and that seem irrelevant to the problems at hand. Those finding justifications for the violence of the extreme left (which leads them to far-reaching generalizations about the progressive character tout court of global terrorism) tend to forget that there is also a terrorism of the far right of which they do not approve at all. The student of terrorism has to consider the general picture; any fixation on one specific aspect of terrorism is bound to lead to wrong conclusions. The use of terms like “left” and “right” has become more and more problematical with the passing of timel it has become more often than not misleading in an age of growing populism that can with equal ease adopt views and politics that used to be considered “left” and “right.” Terrorist groups of the extreme “left” have often become aggressively nationalistic, whereas those of the far right are second to none with their ardent anticapitalism and anti-Americanism. Trotskyites have given critical support to Ayatolla Khomeini and the Talkiban with their radical “anti-imperialism,” and neo-Nazis are suggesting a “third position,” an anti-Westernism that should unite extremists from the left and the right. Anti-Semitism, once the preserve of the extreme right, has spread to the far left. Is Osama bin Laden a man of the left or the right? The question is, of course, absud: The religious-nationalist terrorists have nothing in common with the ideas of the traditional, secular left; they may have in common certain features with fascism. But such comparisons are of limited relevance only; traditional Western political categories do not apply to them. They are premodern and postmodern at the same time. Another major obstacle to understanding terrorism is the psychological resistance against accepting uncomfortable facts. Such resistance to accept new facts running counter to deeply ingrained beliefs is not, of course, new. It has occurred whenever a new movement appeared on the scene; fascism and communism, to give but two examples, were interpreted in the light of the past, and what was essentially new in these movements was overlooked. This form of resistance has been frequent even in the history of science, and it should have come as not surprise that in the study of terrorism in which scientific proof and prediction do not exist, resistance should be even stronger. As a result, the debate on terrorism has resembled quite often a parade of old hobby horses. People who have ready-made explanations of why terrorism occurs will not easily give up their beliefs, however much proof to the contrary is produced. My interest in terrorism and geurilla warfare goes back some three decades. I dealth with the history of these two subjects in two volumes in the 1970s. My assunmption at the time was that while terrorism was a topic of great fascination, its political importance was limited. But I did not exclude that a time might come when, for a variety of reasons, terrorism might assume a far more important role. I mentioned in my earlier writing growring fanaticism, religious and nationalist, on the one hand and access to weapons of mass destruction on the other. Fanaticism per se is of course not new, but it has had a major rebirth – much to the surprise of those in Europe and America who had believed that it was a thing of the past. The use of the weapons of mass destruction by fanatics is yet to come. Awareness of this danger has not yet percolated in the public consciousness: the possibility, indeed the probability, that even very small groups of people will be able to inflict enormous damage on societies and that the number of victims could be infinitely greater than in the past. There is yet another crucial difference between the old terrorism and the new: until recently, terrorism was, by and large, disciriminate, selecting its victims carefully – kings and queens, government ministers, generals, and other leading political figures and officials. It was, more often than not, “propaganda by deed.” Contemporary terrorism has increasingly become indiscriminate in the choice of its victims. Its aim is no longer to conduct propaganda but to effect maximum destruction. Another important difference between the old terrorism and the new is the crucial importance of paranoiac elements in the terrorism of the far right and the extreme left, perhaps most of all in terrorists inspired by religious fanaticism. National oppression (to give but one example) is not a delusional disorder, but it is precisely in individuals and groups of religious-nationalist extremists that aggression and hostility toward others become unmanageable, and that the all-consuming concern with nonexistent hidden motives leads to a loss of the sense of reality. The outlook is poor; there are no known cures for fanaticism and paranoia. Present debates about the causes of terrorism deal with topics such as ethnic and religious tensions, globalism and antiglobalism, poverty and exploitation. But these issues could be less important with regard to the terrorism of the future; the smaller the terrorism group, the more outlandish its doctrine is likely to be and the greater the relevance of psychological factors. There is bound to be great resistance to accepting this. But there is no accounting for the perceived complaints and injuries of a handful of people by means of invoking broad social, economic, and political trends. Eventually the old science-fiction scenario of the mad scientist taking vengeance on society could become reality.</span>

<span class="Underline">Scenario 1:</span>
<span class="Underline">Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome</span>
<span class="Underline">Bunn et al May, 2011 (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Nuclear terrorism is a real and urgent threat. Urgent actions are required to reduce the risk. The risk is driven by the rise of terrorists who seek to inflict unlimited damage, many of whom have sought justification for their plans in radical interpretations of Islam; by the spread of information about the decades-old technology of nuclear weapons; by the increased availability of weapons-usable nuclear materials; and by globalization, which makes it easier to move people, technologies, and materials across the world. • Making a crude nuclear bomb would not be easy, but is potentially within the capabilities of a technically sophisticated terrorist group, as numerous government studies have confirmed. Detonating a stolen nuclear weapon would likely be difficult for terrorists to accomplish, if the weapon was equipped with modern technical safeguards (such as the electronic locks known as Permissive Action Links, or PALs). Terrorists could, however, cut open a stolen nuclear weapon and make use of its nuclear material for a bomb of their own. • The nuclear material for a bomb is small and difficult to detect, making it a major challenge to stop nuclear smuggling, or to recover nuclear material after it has been stolen. Hence, a primary focus in reducing the risk must be to keep nuclear material and nuclear weapons from being stolen by continually improving their security, as agreed at the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington in April 2010. • Al-Qaeda has sought nuclear weapons for almost two decades. The group has repeatedly attempted to purchase stolen nuclear material or nuclear weapons, and has repeatedly attempted to recruit nuclear expertise. Al-Qaeda reportedly conducted tests of conventional explosives for its nuclear program in the desert in Afghanistan. The group’s nuclear ambitions continued after its dispersal following the fall of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. Recent writings from top al-Qaeda leadership are focused on justifying the mass slaughter of civilians, including the use of weapons of mass destruction, and are in all likelihood intended to provide a formal religious justification for nuclear use. While there are significant gaps in coverage of the group’s activities, al-Qaeda appears to have been frustrated thus far in acquiring a nuclear capability; it is unclear whether the group has acquired weapons-usable nuclear material or the expertise needed to make such material into a bomb. Furthermore, pressure from a broad range of counter-terrorist actions probably has reduced the group’s ability to manage large, complex projects, but has not eliminated the danger. However, there is no sign the group has abandoned its nuclear ambitions. On the contrary, leadership statements as recently as 2008 indicate that the intention to acquire and use nuclear weapons is as strong as ever. </span>


<span class="Underline">That’s equivalent to nuclear superpower war</span>
<span class="Underline">Toon et al 7 – Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, “Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism,” online: http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">To an increasing extent, people are congregating in the world’s great urban centers, creating megacities with populations exceeding 10 million individuals. At the same time, advanced technology has designed nuclear explosives of such small size they can be easily transported in a car, small plane or boat to the heart of a city. We demonstrate here that a single detonation in the 15 kiloton range can produce urban fatalities approaching one million in some cases, and casualties exceeding one million. Thousands of small weapons still exist in the arsenals of the U.S. and Russia, and there are at least six other countries with substantial nuclear weapons inventories. In all, thirty-three countries control sufficient amounts of highly enriched uranium or plutonium to assemble nuclear explosives. A conflict between any of these countries involving 50-100 weapons with yields of 15 kt has the potential to create fatalities rivaling those of the Second World War. Moreover, even a single surface nuclear explosion, or an air burst in rainy conditions, in a city center is likely to cause the entire metropolitan area to be abandoned at least for decades owing to infrastructure damage and radioactive contamination. As the aftermath of hurricane Katrina in Louisiana suggests, the economic consequences of even a localized nuclear catastrophe would most likely have severe national and international economic consequences. Striking effects result even from relatively small nuclear attacks because low yield detonations are most effective against city centers where business and social activity as well as population are concentrated. Rogue nations and terrorists would be most likely to strike there. Accordingly, an organized attack on the U.S. by a small nuclear state, or terrorists supported by such a state, could generate casualties comparable to those once predicted for a full-scale nuclear “counterforce” exchange in a superpower conflict. Remarkably, the estimated quantities of smoke generated by attacks totaling about one megaton of nuclear explosives could lead to significant global climate perturbations (Robock et al., 2007). While we did not extend our casualty and damage predictions to include potential medical, social or economic impacts following the initial explosions, such analyses have been performed in the past for large-scale nuclear war scenarios (Harwell and Hutchinson, 1985). Such a study should be carried out as well for the present scenarios and physical outcomes. </span>

<span class="Underline">SECOND- </span>
<span class="Underline">Recent technology advances make bioterror likely</span>
<span class="Underline">Garrett, 12/15/11 [Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Heard the Sirens Scream: How Americans Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks. “The Bioterrorist Next Door”. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">In September, an amiable Dutchman stepped up to the podium at a scientific meeting convened on the island of Malta and announced that he had created a form of influenza that could well be the deadliest contagious disease humanity has ever faced. The bombshell announcement, by virologist Ron Fouchier of Erasmus Medical Center, sparked weeks of vigorous debate among the world's experts on bioterrorism, influenza, virology, and national security over whether the research should have been performed or announced and whether it should ever be published. Meanwhile, a joint Japanese-American research team led by the University of Wisconsin's Yoshihiro Kawaoka says that it, too, has manufactured a superflu. Additionally, a team at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta has acknowledged doing similar research, without successfully making the über flu. The U.S. National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity is now deliberating whether to censor publication of the Fouchier and Kawaoka papers, though it lacks any actual power to do so: It could so advise scientific journals, but editors would still decide. The advisory board is expected to release its decision on Dec. 15. The interest in this brave new world of biology is not limited to the scientific community. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made a surprise visit to Geneva on Dec. 7, addressing the Biological Weapons Convention review conference. The highest-ranking U.S. official to speak to the biological weapons group in decades, Clinton warned, "The emerging gene-synthesis industry is making genetic material widely available. This obviously has many benefits for research, but it could also potentially be used to assemble the components of a deadly organism." "A crude but effective terrorist weapon can be made by using a small sample of any number of widely available pathogens, inexpensive equipment, and college-level chemistry and biology," Clinton also stated. "Less than a year ago, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula made a call to arms for, and I quote, 'brothers with degrees in microbiology or chemistry to develop a weapon of mass destruction.'" Noting that "It is not possible, in our opinion, to create a verification regime" for biological weapons compliance under the convention, Clinton called for voluntary transparency on biological experimentation among the 165 countries that have signed the agreement. Officials throughout the U.S. government are declining to comment on the influenza experiments or elaborate on Clinton's comments and appearance in Geneva. The influenza scientists were politely but firmly instructed recently by U.S. officials to keep their mouths shut and provide no data or details regarding their experiments to anybody. Sources inside the Dutch, German, and French governments say that discreet agreement was reached among Western leaders to greet the influenza pronouncements with a wall of silence, pending the advisory board's decision and detailed analysis of the experiments by classified intelligence and scientific bodies. Should we worry? If these scientists have indeed used the techniques that they have verbally described (but not yet published) to produce a highly contagious and virulent form of the so-called "bird flu," the feat can at least theoretically be performed by lesser-skilled individuals with nefarious intentions. Perhaps more significantly, the evolutionary leaps might be made naturally, via flu-infected birds, pigs, even humans. In other words, the research has implications for both terrorism and a catastrophic pandemic. Moreover, several experimental antecedents involving smallpox-like viruses and polio lend credence to the idea that concocting or radically altering viruses to create more lethal or transmissible germs is becoming an easier feat and an accidental byproduct of legitimate research. The advisory board is debating whether the work, as well as details on how the flu viruses were deliberately mutated, should be published. That is the wrong question. As a practical matter, experimental results are now shared with lightning speed between laboratories, and I know that several leading scientists outside Fouchier's and Kawaoka's labs already recognize exactly how these experiments were executed. The genie is out of the bottle: Eager graduate students in virology departments from Boston to Bangkok have convened journal-review debates reckoning exactly how these viral Frankenstein efforts were carried out. The list of attempts by governments to stifle scientific information is lengthy and marked by failure. I was at a 1982 optical engineering meeting in San Diego that was disrupted by a censorship order handed down by the Ronald Reagan administration's security chief, Adm. Bobby Ray Inman, compelling seizure of about 100 papers. The administration claimed the findings in those mathematics papers would, in Soviet hands, pose an existential threat to the United States -- an assertion that proved laughable when the studies soon saw the light of day. In 2006, George W. Bush's administration tried to block climate change–related presentations by NASA scientist James Hansen; every single one of Hansen's data points swiftly appeared on the Internet. Rather than trying to censor research because its inevitable release might be harmful, we ought to be having a frank, open discussion about its implications. The correct questions that scientists, national security and political leaders, and the public ought to be asking are: How difficult was it to perform these experiments? Could they be replicated in the hands of criminals or would-be terrorists? What have these experiments shown us about the likelihood that the H5N1 "bird flu" virus will naturally evolve into this terrifying form? Are we safer, or less secure, today due to the post-2001 anthrax-inspired proliferation of high-security biological laboratories? </span>

<span class="Underline">This spreads globally</span>
<span class="Underline">Kellman 8 (Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center, “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat”, The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">A looming danger confronts the world—the threat of bioviolence. It is a danger that will only grow in the future, yet we are increasingly failing to confront it. With every passing day, committing a biocatastrophe becomes a bit easier, and this condition will perpetuate for as long as science progresses. Biological warfare is as old as conflict, of course, but in terms of the objectives of traditional warfare— gaining territory or resources, compelling the surrender of an opposing army—biological weapons weren’t very effective. If the objective is to inflict mass death and panic on a mixed population, however, emerging bioweapons offer remarkable potential. We would be irresponsible to presume that radical jihadists like al Qaeda have ignored said potential. What’s New in Bioviolence? Bioviolence refers to the many ways to inflict disease as well as the many people who might choose to do so, whether heads of states, criminals, or fanatics. Fortunately, doing bioviolence is technically far more difficult than using conventional explosives. Natural pathogens like anthrax are difficult to weaponize. Smallpox remains unavailable (presumably); plague is readily treatable; Ebola k i l l s t o o q u i c k l y t o i g n i t e a p a ndemic. But emerging scientific disciplines—notably genomics, nanotechnology, and other microsciences— could alter these pathogens for use as weapons. These scientific disciplines offer profound benefits for humanity, yet there is an ominous security challenge in minimizing the danger of their hostile application. For exampl e , highly dangerous agents can be made resistant to vaccines or antibiotics. In Australia, scientists introduced a gene into mousepox (a cousin of smallpox) to reduce pest populations—it worked so well that it wiped out 100% of affected mice, even those that had immunity against the disease. Various bacterial agents, such as plague or tularemia (rabbit fever), could be altered to increase their lethality or to evade antibiotic treatment. Diseases once thought to be eradicated can now be resynthesized, enabling them to spread in reg ions where there is no natural immunity. The polio virus has been synthesized from scratch; its creators called it an “animate chemical.” Soon, it may be resynthesized into a form that is contagious even among vaccinated popu l a t i o n s . Recreation of long eradicated livestock diseases could ravage herds severely lacking in genetic diversity, damage food supplies , and cause devastating economic losses. Perhaps the greatest biothreat is the manipulation of the flu and other highly contagious viruses, such as Ebola. Today, scientists can change parts of a virus’s genetic material so that it can perform specific functions. The genomic sequence of the Spanish flu virus that killed upwards of 40 million people nearly a century ago has been widely published; any savvy scientist could reconstruct it. The avian flu is even more lethal, albeit not readily contagious via casual aerosol delivery. A malevolent bioscientist might augment its contagiousness. The Ebola virus might be manipulat ed so that i t ki l l s more slowly, allowing it to be spread farther before its debilitating effects altogether consume its carrier. A bit further off is genetic manipulation of the measles virus—one of the great killers in human history—rendering useless the immunizations that most of us receive in early childhood. Soon , laboratory resynthesis of smallpox may be possible. Advanced drug delivery systems can be used to disseminate lethal agent s to broad populations . Bioregulators — small organic compounds that modify body systems— could enhance targeted delivery technologies. Some experts are concerned that new weapons could be aimed at the immune, neurological, and neuroendocrine systems. Nanotechnology that lends itself to mechanisms for advanced disease detection and drug delivery—such as gold nanotubes that can administer drugs directly into a tumor—could also deliver weaponized agents deep into the body, substantially raising the weapon’s effectiveness. Altogether, techniques that were on the frontiers of science only a decade or two ago are rapidly mutating as progress in the biological sciences enables new ways to produce lethal catastrophe. Today, they are on the horizon. Within a decade, they will be pedestrian. According to the National Academies of Science, “The threat spectrum is broad and evolving—in some ways predictably, in other ways unexpectedly. In the future, genetic engineering and other technologies may lead to the development of pathogenic organisms with unique, unpredictable characteristics.” For as far into the future as we can possibly see, every passing day it becomes slightly easier to commit a violent catastrophe than it was the day before. Indeed, the rapid pace of advancing science helps explain why policies to prevent such a catastrophe are so complicated. Bioviolence Jihad? Some experts argue that terrorists and fanatics are not interested in bioviolence and that the danger might therefore be overblown. Since there have been no catastrophic bioviolence attacks, these experts argue, terrorists lack the intention to make bioweapons. Hopefully, they are correct. But an enormous amount of evidence suggests they are wrong. From the dawn of biology’s ability to isolate pathogens, people have pursued hostile applications of biological agents. It is perilous to ignore this extensive history by presuming that today’s villains are not fervent about weaponizing disease. Not a single state admits to having a bioweapons program, but U.S. int e l l i g e n c e o f f i c i a l s a s s e r t t h a t a s many as 10 states might have active programs, including North Korea, Iran, and Syria. Moreover, many terrorist organizations have expressed interest in acquiring biological weapons. Whatever weight the taboo against inflicting disease might have for nation-states, it is obviously irrelevant to terrorists, criminals, and lunatics. Deterrence by threat of retaliation is essentially meaningless for groups with suicidal inclinations who are likely to intermingle with innocent civilians. Al -Qaeda and aff i l iat ed I s lami c fundamentalist organizations have overtly proclaimed their intention to develop and use bioweapons. The 11th volume of al-Qaeda’s Encyclopedia of Jihad is devoted to chemical and biological weapons. Indeed, alQaeda has acknowledged that “biological weapons are considered the least complicated and easiest to manufacture of all weapons of mass destruction.” Al-Qaeda is widely reported to have acquired legal pathogens via publicly available scientific sources. Before 9/11, al-Qaeda operatives reportedly purchased anthrax and plague from arms dealers in Kazakhstan, and the group has repeatedly urged followers to recruit microbiology and biotechnology experts. Follow ing th e Ta l iban ’ s fa l l , f iv e a l Qaeda biologi cal weapons labs in Afghanistan tested positive for anthrax. Documents calculating aerial dispersal methods of anthrax via balloon were discovered in Kabul, along with anthrax spore concentrate at a nearby vaccine laboratory. According to a lengthy fatwa commissioned by Osama bin Laden, jihadists are entitled to use weapons of mass destruction against the infidels, even if it means killing innocent women, children, and Muslims. No matter that these weapons cannot be specifically targeted. “[N]othing is a greater duty, after faith itself, than repelling an enemy attacker who sows corruption to religion and the world.” According to the fatwa, “No conditions limit this: one repels the enemy however one can.” The sentiment might be reprehen sible, but it is certainly not irrational. Even the most passionate terrorists must realize that conventional attacks are not bringing the West to its knees. The 9/11 strikes, the bombing of the Madrid and London subways, and numerous smaller attacks have all put civilization on edge, but history marches inexorably forward. A few thousand people can be killed, yet Western armies still traverse the world, and Western economies still determine winners and losers. From this perspective, the stakes must be raised. Bioviolence is perhaps the most dire, easiest means to execute existential danger. What Might Bioviolence Accomplish? Envision a series of attacks against capitals of developing states that have close diplomatic linkages with the United States. The attacks would carry a well-publicized yet simple warning: “If you are a friend of the United States, receive its officials, or suppo r t i t s po l i c i e s , thou sand s o f y o u r p e o p l e wi l l g e t s i c k . ” How many a t ta ck s in how many c i t i e s would it take before international diplomacy, to say nothing of international transit, comes to a crashing halt? In comparison to use of conventional or chemical weapons, the potential death toll of a bioattack could be huge . Al though the numbe r of victims would depend on where an attack takes place, the type of pathogen, and the sophistication of the weapons maker, there is widespread consensus among experts that a heightened attack would inflict casualties exceedable only by nuclear weapons. In comparison to nuclear weapons, bioweapons are far easier and cheaper to make and transport, and they can be made in facilities that are far more difficult to detect. The truly unique characteristic of c e r t a i n bioweapons t h a t d i s t i nguishes them from every other type of weapon is contagion. No other type of weapon can replicate itself and spread. Any other type of attack, no matter how severe, occurs at a certain moment in time at an identifiable place. If you aren’t there, you are angry and upset but not physically injured by the attack. An attack with a contagious agent can uniquely spread, potentially imperiling target populations far from where the agents are released. A bio - offender could infect his minions with a disease and send them across borders before symptoms are obvious. Carriers will then spread it to other unsuspecting victims who would themselves become extended bioweapons, carrying the disease indiscriminately. There are challenges in executing such an attack, but fanatical terrorist organizations seem to have an endless supply of willing suicide attackers. All this leads to the most important characteristic of bioviolence: It raises incomparable levels of panic. Contagious bioviolence means that planes fly empty or perhaps don’t fly at all. People cancel vacation and travel plans and refuse to interact with each other for fear of unseen affliction. Public entertainment events are canceled; even going to a movie becomes too dangerous. Ultimately, bioviolence is about hiding our children as everyone becomes vulnerable to our most fundamental terror: the fear of disease. For people who seek to rattle the pillars of modern civilization and perhaps cause it to collapse, effective use of disease would set in motion political, economic, and health consequences so severe as to call into question the ability of existing governments to maintain their citizens’ security. In an attack’s wake, no one would know when it is over, and no government could credibly tell an anxious population where and when it is safe to resume normal life. While it is difficult to specify when this danger will strike, there should be no doubt that we are vulnerable to a rupture. Just as planes flying into the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001, instantly became a historical marker dividing strategic perspectives before from after, the day that disease is effectively used as an instrument of hate will profoundly change everything. If you want to stop modern civilization in its tracks, bioviolence is the way to go. The notion that no one will ever commit catastrophic bioviolence is simply untenable. What Can We Do? How can we confront these growing dangers? First, we must appreciate the global nature of the problem. Perpetrators from anywhere can get p a t h o g e n s f ro m v i r t u a l l y e v e r ywhe re . Biore s earch labs that onc e were concentrated in about two dozen developed states are proliferating, expanding the risk that lethal agents could be diverted and misused. The knowledge needed to weaponize pathogens is available on the Internet. An attack can be prep a r e d t h ro u g h e a s y n e tw o r k s o f transnational communication. Once a bioweapon is prepared, terrorists or other perpetrators from anywhere can slide across national boundaries and release disease anonymously. Once released, a contagious agent would spread without regard for boundaries, race, religion, or nationality. Public health responses would have to be internationally coordinated. New modes of international l egal coope rat ion would immediately be needed to investigate the crime. Thus, bioviolence dangers shrink the planet into an interdependent neighborhood. It makes no sense for any particular country to try to insulate its homeland from these dangers. No missile defense system will p ro t e c t u s f rom b i o v i o l e n c e . Improved border security will not keep disease at bay. National efforts to enhan c e m ed i ca l p repa redn e s s hav e virtues, but these defenses can be readily circumvented. To prevent bioviolence requires policies that focus on humanity as a species and that are implemented everywhere with centralized governance. Antibioviolence policies must be global. Ye t , advanc ing ant i -bioviol enc e policies is what the international community does worst. Bioviolence dangers are unnecessarily high because national and international antibioviolence strategies are gap-ridden, often incoherent, and not globally observed. As a result, we are all virtually naked in the face of unacceptable dangers. No ot her t hreat pre s ent s such a s tark cont ras t between severity of harm and a failure of leadership to reduce risks. Most important, existing institutional arrangements are inadequate. In sharp contrast to most other global security challenges, there is no responsible international authority that defines relevant prohibitions and responsibilities, implements policies over time, or evaluates whether obligations are being fulfilled. With regard to global bioviolence prevent i o n p o l i c i e s , t h e r e ’ s n o b o d y i n charge. No one is responsible; no one is accountable. The absence of authority is profoundly dangerous. Bioviolence prevention and preparedness requires a sizable orchestra, made up of various instruments, to play complicated music in harmony. Today, there is not a bad “conductor”, there is no conductor at all. The result is cacophony. Simply stated, bioviolence is the dark s ide of global izat ion, ye t int e rna tional alarms of bioviolence ring nowhere! We need a comprehensive national and international strategy for bioviol enc e prevent ion . [Se e box: “Five S t r a t e g i e s f o r P r e v e n t i n g B i oviolence,” page 30.] Policies should be pursued within an integrated approach that enables each policy to gain strength from all the others. Such policies are potentially available and effective, but they demand progressive changes in our global order. The Security Mission Global bioviolence prevention and preparedness policies are imperative, but also imperative is recognition that the world faces natural disease horrors. Where mass public health challenges are daily phenomena, the risks of terrorists using pathogens must be weighed against more tangible natural threats. Simply stated, it is illegitimate to insist that every nation adopt policies for preventing human-inflicted disease without acknowledging the silent genocide of natural disease that is responsible for millions of deaths. But neither is it legitimate to view bioviolence dangers as distractions from efforts to combat natural disease and therefore to put off beneficial measures until those afflictions are defeated. To do so frustrates forward movement on cost-effective initiatives that could help build an international security architecture for advancing science and health. Thus, bioviolence prevention must be a facet of a broad international commitment to: 1. Prevent the spread of disease ( e .g. , through publ i c -heal th measures). 2. Enhance protection against and cures for disease (e.g., through vaccination and drug therapies). 3. Supervise the conduct of biological science. 4. Criminalize unauthorized or improper use of pathogens. From this foundation should flow a policy commitment to the growth of bioscience as a global public good. Policies to encourage its worldwide spread deserve vigorous support. This governance mission should, therefore, be conceived as a global covenant . As bios c i enc e goe s forward as a fundamental pillar of human progress, all nations must undertake common responsibilities to prevent bioviolence even as the burdens associated with those responsibilities are differentiated according to wealth and capability. From everyone according to their abilities—to all for the benefit of all. The United Nations’ Importance The United Nations represents the b e s t venu e fo r a new gove rnanc e platform that can accommodate the need for an integrated global strategy agains t bioviol enc e . Only the United Nations has the necessary in ternational legitimacy, and only the Uni t ed Nat ions can int egrat e the many sectors—health, law enforcement, science, military, emergency preparedness—that must devote expertise and resources. A primary consideration here is to minimize any bureaucratic reshuffling. There is certainly no need to modify or replicate existing capabilities. Many relevant governance tasks are already addressed by one or more international organizations. For example, the World Health Organization should continue to be responsible for addressing the health implications of a pandemic, whether natural or malevolent. Interpol should continue to be responsible for a d d re s s i n g b i o v i o l e n c e ’ s l aw e nforcement implications. Indeed, the UN’s role should be only to coordinate the performance of these tasks. Broadly viewed, the United Nations should be able to undertake three functions: First, a specific UN agency should stimulate bioscience development by incorporating security concerns into the fabric of scientific undertakings and by assisting countries in using bioscience in ways that are consistent with policies for preventing bioviolence. Because science, development, and security can and must be mutually reinforcing, this agency’s primary responsibilities would be to promote and distribute knowledge and build capacity to fulfill obligations, especially in developing nations. Second, a UN office should coordinate activities among the relevant international/regional organizations, professional networks, and expert bodies. For example, three major international organizations focus on health (World Health Organization, Animal Health Organization, and the Food and Agriculture Organization); Interpol and Europol both focus on law enforcement; a large array of organizations focus on conveyance of dangerous items (e.g., International Maritime Organization, International Civil Aviation Organization). This UN office should be a steering mechanism to engage each of these orga nizations’ specialized expertise and to identify synergies. Third, a Security Council Committee should be authorized to investigate bioviolence preparations as well as respond and coordinate assistance to a bioviolence attack. Situations that call for investigation or response arise rarely, but they carry disproportionate significance for international peace and security. The Security Council Committee should not advance programmatic agendas, but it should be able to wield expertise and political muscle in volatile situations. Its primary mission would be to enable the international community to sustain global order in the face of a bioviolence challenge. Ever since someone harnessed a new technology to create a weapon with more devastating effects, there has been a link—a double helix—between the progress of science and the pursuit of security. This is inevitable. These dangers of bioviolence do not a rg u e f o r re l i n q u i s h i n g s c i e n t i f i c progress, but they disprove notions tha t n ew cha l l eng e s can b e e ff e ct ive ly addre s s ed wi th ye s t e rday’ s policies. At bottom is a condition unique to this historical era: Scientific progress is intertwined with escalating malevolence threatening human security. Progressing capabilities improve our l ive s and ye t , inext r i cably, enable truly harmful weapons against humanity. Here are the challenges to international peace and security at the beginning of the third millennium. Failing to do the right thing in response to these challenges could have dire consequences for all humanity. </span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Clifford Singer, Spring 2001. Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">In recent years the fear of the apocalypse (or religious hope for it) has been in part a child of the Cold War, but its seeds in Western culture go back to the Black Death and earlier. Recent polls suggest that the majority in the United States that believe man would survive into the future for substantially less than a millennium was about 10 percent higher in the Cold War than afterward. However fear of annihilation of the human species through nuclear warfare was confused with the admittedly terrifying, but much different matter of destruction of a dominant civilization. The destruction of a third or more of much of the globe’s population through the disruption from the direct consequences of nuclear blast and fire damage was certainly possible. There was, and still is, what is now known to be a rather small chance that dust raised by an all-out nuclear war would cause a so-called nuclear winter, substantially reducing agricultural yields especially in temperate regions for a year or more. As noted above mankind as a whole has weathered a number of mind-boggling disasters in the past fifty thousand years even if older cultures or civilizations have sometimes eventually given way to new ones in the process. Moreover the fear that radioactive fallout would make the globe uninhabitable, publicized by widely seen works such as "On the Beach," was a metaphor for the horror of nuclear war rather than reality. The epidemiological lethal results of well over a hundred atmospheric nuclear tests are barely statistically detectable except in immediate fallout plumes. The increase in radiation exposure far from the combatants in even a full scale nuclear exchange at the height of the Cold War would have been modest compared to the variations in natural background radiation doses that have readily been adapted to by a number of human populations. Nor is there any reason to believe that global warming or other insults to our physical environment resulting from currently used technologies will challenge the survival of mankind as a whole beyond what it has already handily survived through the past fifty thousand years. There are, however, two technologies currently under development that may pose a more serious threat to human survival. The first and most immediate is biological warfare combined with genetic engineering. Smallpox is the most fearsome of natural biological warfare agents in existence. By the end of the next decade, global immunity to smallpox will likely be at a low unprecedented since the emergence of this disease in the distant past, while the opportunity for it to spread rapidly across the globe will be at an all time high. In the absence of other complications such as nuclear war near the peak of an epidemic, developed countries may respond with quarantine and vaccination to limit the damage. Otherwise mortality there may match the rate of 30 percent or more expected in unprepared developing countries. With respect to genetic engineering using currently available knowledge and technology, the simple expedient of spreading an ample mixture of coat protein variants could render a vaccination response largely ineffective, but this would otherwise not be expected to substantially increase overall mortality rates. With development of new biological technology, however, there is a possibility that a variety of infectious agents may be engineered for combinations of greater than natural virulence and mortality, rather than just to overwhelm currently available antibiotics or vaccines. There is no a priori known upper limit to the power of this type of technology base, and thus the survival of a globally connected human family may be in question when and if this is achieved.</span>

<span class="Underline">1AC – crisis management</span>
<span class="Underline">Contention 3: crisis management</span>
<span class="Underline">The plan is key to it</span>
<span class="Underline">First, early military response</span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse, ‘8 – Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO. [Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability. Includes input from the NSSO, air force, special forces, and marine corps. http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The expeditionary nature of Joint SOP will allow for tailorable force packages capable of conducting operations in countries and regions of interest anywhere in the world. These tailorable force packages will provide COCOMS with a highly responsive and adaptable instrument to influence operations or resolve crises. With respect to responsiveness SUSTAIN provides a leap-ahead improvement over traditional aerospace transport for those teams. SOCOM teams organize, train and equip specifically for operations globally. Yet, absent the preexisting forward deployment of teams, transport of teams and capabilities is limited to terrestrial air, land, sea, and undersea vehicle speeds. New concepts for aircraft carrier and amphibious shipping Sea Bases expand SOCOM basing options, offering political leaders increased freedom of action; however land-locked areas of operation and overflight restrictions still present SOF insertion constraints. The SUSTAIN capability provides SOF teams in support of the Joint Force Commander (JFC) or national command Authority (NCA) the capacity to be rapidly transported to any point on the globe, effectively instantaneously. The objective SUSTAIN capability spans the full spectrum of Special Forces (SF) employment, to include a wide range of manned and unmanned payloads. A fundamental advantage of a SUSTAIN capability with global reach stems from its inherent operational mobility, or more precisely its operational agility. Specifically, it provides the highspeed transport necessary to rapidly move credible specialized forces to remote locations with precision. Furthermore, it provides this capability within minutes and hours of execution orders as opposed to days associated with conventional terrestrial transportation. Equally suitable for operations from land-based airfields, space ports, SUSTAIN vehicle-capable carrier ships, or military space stations, SUSTAIN provides the Joint Force Commander (J FC) virtually unlimited basing options for Special Forces (SF) team insertion and extraction. SUSTAIN will constitute the first family of multi-mission military aerospace vehicles to include a man-rated space vehicle in the SOCOM tool kit. It will blend the versatility of tactical assault support aircraft with the revolutionary speed and global reach that can only be achieved with a suborbital or orbital space craft. SUSTAIN is planned as a combined arms compliment to conventional all-terrestrial aircraft capabilities such as the CV-22, C-130, and the other fixed and rotary wing aircraft in the SOCOM inventory. SUSTAIN is a high leverage capability that will greatly expand JESOF and national options in an age where timely response to crises in their infancy can mitigate the need for an escalation of hostilities at an increased national cost.</span>

<span class="Underline">Speed matters, not size</span>
<span class="Underline">Defense Technology Internatonal, ‘5 [September/October. Defense magazine edited by Sharon Weinberger, a national security writer focusing on science and technology issues. pp 21. http://www.nxtbook.com/fx/books/mh/awdti0905/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">“The earlier you intervene in a crisis . . . the lower the national cost,” says Franz Gayl, the science and technology adviser to the Marine Corps’ deputy commandant for plans, policies and operations. Gayl, who is temporarily assigned as a student at the National Defense University’s Industrial College of the Armed Forces in Washington, is a proponent of the idea that some ground presence – even a handful of specially trained marines – can provide the ability to react quickly to trouble, or, even better, set the stage to avoid major conflict.</span>


<span class="Underline">Second, diplomatic management</span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse and nine other military space experts, ’10 [Paul Damphousse, Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO; Bart Denny. Space Systems Analyst at U.S. Special Operations Command; Alan Dunham, senior analyst at the National Security Space Office; Franz Gayl, science and tech adviser to the Marine Corps’s deputy commandant; Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines; Bob Lancaster is the Executive Director of the Texas Space Alliance, following service in the Air Force as Branch Chief for Force Protection Innovations at the Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center; Amy Pointer (NSSO); Paul Rancatore (NSSO); David Smith (NSSO); and Christopher Stone (NSSO). “Space Transportation Technology Roadmap”, a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs. October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">4.3.4 Other Government Space Transportation Needs o 4.3.4.1 State Department Shuttle Diplomacy The U.S. Department of State (DoS) continues to place a high value on the face-to-face interaction of senior diplomats and National leaders, especially during periods of international crisis. A historical example that comes to mind was the importance of face-to-face shuttle diplomacy during the 1973 Yom Kipper War when the direct presence of the Secretary of State in various capitals over a period of days and hours narrowly averted a nuclear confrontation between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Since the rapidity of crisis development has only increased with technology, the need for such senior U.S. representation for direct and unambiguous communication will increase accordingly. o 4.3.4.2 National Lab WMD Counter-Proliferation Monitoring The Department of Energy (DoE) and other agencies such as the Office of Nuclear Counter-Terrorism (NCT) are tasked with assisting in countering the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) through accurate monitoring and assessments. National assets look for electromagnetic (EM) signatures of events and devices. Yet, the ability to rapidly attain air, soil, and other samples in a timely fashion is often the key to making a defensible assessment. A recent example involved the suspected detonation of a fission weapon by a rogue state. It took some time, perhaps days and even weeks before air samples were obtainable to verify that the detonation indeed occurred. This was an inefficient means to ascertain the truth or fiction of rouge state propaganda. A space transportation capability could reduce such certainty to mere hours, with significant information operations (IO) benefits to the U.S. o 4.3.4.3 Global Dignitary Transport Services Similar in spirit to the use of suborbital or orbital space transportation for shuttle diplomacy, such transportation can be employed for Heads of State and other dignitaries whenever time is critical. This could constitute the provision of a vehicle to foreign VIPs to the U.S. and their return so as to minimize schedule interruptions, and essentially make the meeting possible when it would otherwise not be possible. These instances fall short of the urgency of crisis shuttle diplomacy, however the strategic value of such meetings could certainly be of similar significance. </span>

<span class="Underline">Third, quick victories</span>
<span class="Underline">Damphousse et al, ’10 [Paul Damphousse, Marine, lieutenant colonel, MA in aeronautical engineering, former Space Control and Special Technical Operations action officer , Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO; Bart Denny. Space Systems Analyst at U.S. Special Operations Command; Alan Dunham, senior analyst at the National Security Space Office; Franz Gayl, science and tech adviser to the Marine Corps’s deputy commandant; Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines; Bob Lancaster is the Executive Director of the Texas Space Alliance, following service in the Air Force as Branch Chief for Force Protection Innovations at the Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center; Amy Pointer (NSSO); Paul Rancatore (NSSO); David Smith (NSSO); and Christopher Stone (NSSO). “Space Transportation Technology Roadmap”, a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs. October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify the cost of a revolutionary military system such as SUSTAIN, it must demonstrate a high-level of military utility in a variety of scenarios. Thus, a military utility analysis was performed to assess the value of SUSTAIN. We chose an invasion of a friendly nation by a hostile nation as our test case, as it would stress intelligence collection and prompt negation of Weapon of Mass Destruction (WMD) time-critical targets. We compare this conflict occurring in 2010 without SUSTAIN with the same conflict occurring in 2025 with SUSTAIN, while keeping everything else in the war game the same. 4.2.4.28.2 During our 100 war game runs [simulation runs], SUSTAIN was able to deliver a covert Special Forces team to a hostile nation within 12 hours of an American Intelligence Community request to verify a potential nuclear attack and successfully sabotage the nuclear delivery system hours before the attack to prevent a catastrophe to American and allied nation military forces. This resulted in a stunning and overwhelming victory to American and allied forces using SUSTAIN vs. a surprising victory by hostile forces when SUSTAIN was unavailable.  4.2.4.28.3 SUSTAIN significantly improves the blue (allied) force exchange ratio -- 98% of blue forces survive, while 50% of red (hostile) forces are neutralized in 2025. This is compared to 80% of red forces surviving and 50% of blue forces being neutralized in a 2010 invasion without SUSTAIN. Attrition rates for the two sides with and without SUSTAIN are shown below. [GRAPH REMOVED]  4.2.4.28.4 To conduct this military utility analysis, we utilized three modeling and simulation tools: Satellite Tool Kit from Analytical Graphics, Inc. to model the orbital and suborbital SUSTAIN geometries, EXTEND from Imagine That, Inc. to model the communication nodal data flow, and Systems Effectiveness Analysis Simulation (SEAS) from the United States Air Force to model the war. 4.2.4.28.5 Conclusions. SUSTAIN employment can revolutionize the twenty-first century battlefield. U.S. military force projection capabilities could be greatly enhanced by a rapid-response Prompt Global Transport capability that will provide over-flight of denied territory by at least 50 miles altitude. SUSTAIN should consider using a family of multiple architectures and designs for maximum mission adaptability. The SUSTAIN trade space should encompass various options such as ballistic sub-orbital flight, flight largely within the atmosphere, and ―atmospheric skipper</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 1pt;">‖</span><span style="font-size: 1pt;"> near-space trajectories. Although the non-recurring engineering as well as the operation of a Prompt Global Transport system are likely to be costly, the savings resulting from crises averted should make it well worth the investment. </span>

<span class="Underline">American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression</span>
<span class="Underline">Gerson, ‘9 – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">This article seeks to expand the current debate about the role and utility of conventional forces in US deterrence strategies by reexamining the traditional logic of conventional deterrence, which focuses on deterrence by denial, in the context of the modern international security environment. It is primarily concerned with the role of US conventional forces in extended deterrence, defined as the threat of force to protect allies and friends, rather than “central” or “homeland” deterrence. 3 This focus on extended deterrence—and especially on the role of deterrence by denial in extended deterrence—highlights the central importance of protecting territory from attack and invasion. Historically, the desire for control over specific territory has been a frequent motivator of interstate crises and conflict. 4 While interstate conventional wars have significantly declined since the end of the Second World War, the potential for conflict over Taiwan or on the Korean Peninsula, the prospect of future clashes over control of scarce natural resources, and the 2008 war between Georgia and Russia attest to the continued possibility of conflict over specific territory that has important strategic, economic, political, religious, historical, or socio-cultural significance. Consequently, this article examines how US conventional military power can be used to deter conventional aggression against friends and allies by threatening to deny an adversary its best chance of success on the battlefield—a surprise or short-notice attack with little or no engagement with American military forces. The ability to prevent an opponent from presenting the United States with a fait accompli—that is, from striking quickly and achieving victory before substantial US (and perhaps coalition) forces can be deployed to the theater—is a central component of modern conventional deterrence. Conventional Deterrence in US Strategy Broadly defined, deterrence is the threat of force intended to convince a potential aggressor not to undertake a particular action because the costs will be unacceptable or the probability of success extremely low. This threat has always been one of the central strategic principles by which nations attempted to prevent conflict. 5 Even so, the development and rigorous analysis of deterrence as a discrete strategic concept did not occur until the advent of nuclear weapons. Deterrence theory was developed against the backdrop of the Cold War nuclear arms race and focused on the prevention of nuclear conflict. Yet, while the majority of academic research and public debate was concerned with the prevention of nuclear war—the net result was that deterrence became synonymous with nuclear weapons—conventional deterrence, appropriately, assumed an increasingly important role in the development of military strategy during this period. 6 As the Soviet Union began to amass a large and survivable nuclear arsenal that was capable of global reach in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the credibility of the Eisenhower Administration’s policy of “Massive Retaliation,” which threatened an overwhelming nuclear response to virtually any Soviet aggression, was brought into question. Once the Soviet Union developed survivable nuclear capabilities that could reach the US homeland, many defense officials and analysts argued that the threat of Massive Retaliation lacked credibility against anything other than an all-out Soviet nuclear attack. 7 As a result, western military strategy eventually shifted from total reliance on nuclear weapons as a means of deterring both Soviet conventional and nuclear aggression to a strategy of “Flexible Response,” which included conventional and nuclear elements. From the mid-1960s onward, NATO relied on conventional power, backed by the threat of nuclear escalation, to deter any conventional assault on Europe by the numerically superior Warsaw Pact, and relied on nuclear weapons to deter nuclear attacks. 8 By incorporating “direct defense”—the ability to respond to Warsaw Pact aggression, especially conventional aggression, with proportionate (i.e., conventional) force—into NATO strategy, the concept of Flexible Response sought to create a more credible means of deterrence across the entire spectrum of conflict Following the Cold War, conventional greater role in US national security strategy. With the demise of the Soviet Union and significant advancements in conventional precision-guided munitions, many defense analysts concluded that “smart” weapons could provide a powerful deterrent against a wide variety of threats. While some commentators argued that nuclear weapons were still necessary to prevent nuclear attacks, and others contended that conventional weapons were “the only credible deterrent” even against nuclear threats, almost all agreed that technologically advanced conventional weapons could now take the place of nuclear weapons in many missions. 9 Following the remarkable success of sophisticated conventional firepower in Operation Desert Storm, William Perry declared, “This new conventional military capability adds a powerful dimension to the ability of the United States to deter war.” 10 In the current international security environment, conventional deterrence can be useful against nonnuclear and nuclear-armed adversaries. For regimes that do not possess nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons, US conventional capabilities will likely be the most credible and potent deterrent. History suggests that, in general, nations without weapons of mass destruction (WMD) are not intimidated by an opponent’s nuclear capabilities. For example, nuclear weapons did not give the United States significant advantages before or during the Korean and Vietnam wars; nor did they dissuade Egypt from attacking Israel in the 1973 Yom Kippur War 11 or Argentina from attacking the British-controlled Falkland Islands in 1982. 12 This circumstance is due in part to the perceived impact of the “nuclear taboo,” a moral and political aversion to using nuclear weapons that has emerged due to the long absence of nuclear use in time of war. The nuclear taboo reduces the credibility—and therefore the utility—of nuclear weapons, especially against regimes not possessing nuclear weapons or other WMD. 13 Although implicit or explicit nuclear threats may lack credibility against non-WMD regimes, many potential adversaries believe that the United States will use conventional firepower, especially because America has conventional superiority and a demonstrated willingness to use it. Consequently, when dealing with non-WMD-related threats, conventional deterrence will be the most likely mechanism for deterring hostile actions. 36 Parameters According to Admiral Michael Mullen, the current Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “A big part of credibility, of course, lies in our conventional capability. The capability to project power globally and conduct effective theater-level operations . . . remains essential to deterrence effectiveness.” 14 Conventional deterrence also plays an important role in preventing nonnuclear aggression by nuclear-armed regimes. Regional nuclear proliferation may not only increase the chances for the use of nuclear weapons, but, equally important, the possibility of conventional aggression. The potential for conventional conflict under the shadow of mutual nuclear deterrence was a perennial concern throughout the Cold War, and that scenario is still relevant. A nuclear-armed adversary may be emboldened to use conventional force against US friends and allies, or to sponsor terrorism, in the belief that its nuclear capabilities give it an effective deterrent against US retaliation or intervention. 15 For example, a regime might calculate that it could undertake conventional aggression against a neighbor and, after achieving a relatively quick victory, issue implicit or explicit nuclear threats in the expectation that the United States (and perhaps coalition partners) would choose not to get involved. In this context, conventional deterrence can be an important mechanism to limit options for regional aggression below the nuclear threshold. By deploying robust conventional forces in and around the theater of potential conflict, the United States can credibly signal that it can respond to conventional aggression at the outset, and therefore the opponent cannot hope to simultaneously achieve a quick conventional victory and use nuclear threats to deter US involvement. Moreover, if the United States can convince an opponent that US forces will be engaged at the beginning of hostilities—and will therefore incur the human and financial costs of war from the start—it can help persuade opponents that the United States would be highly resolved to fight even in the face of nuclear threats because American blood and treasure would have already been expended. 16 Similar to the Cold War, the deployment of conventional power in the region, combined with significant nuclear capabilities and escalation dominance, can help prevent regimes from believing that nuclear possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>


<span class="Underline">Agile, global military reach is key to contain aggressors and manage power transitions – every hotspot is at risk [deters nuclear aggression by rising states like China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, and India, contains a Pakistani state collapse, and prevents European, South American, and Middle Eastern war – global escalation over Indo-Pacific trade routes is likely]</span>
<span class="Underline">Major Munson, ’11 – Peter J., master of arts in national security affairs, has published in the security studies journal Strategic Insights, Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">A decade of war has focused Marines’ minds on insurgency, culture, and the permutations of modern irregular warfare, but the Nation’s greatest strategic threats lurk between the lines of economic stories from the developing world and just beyond the future years defense program. The debate over the future of the Marine Corps is shaped largely by our recent history and attractive concepts, such as fourth-generation warfare.1 While tactics and technology are important, they must be predicated upon a strategic understanding of the world and states’ policy goals within it in order to be successful. The dominant feature of today’s strategic environment is socioeconomic transformation in the developing world and concomitant change in the world’s power structure.2 This transformation will prevail over most of this century, affecting patterns of warfare in all intensities. America, still the clearly predominant power, is seeing its relative advantage over other states decline. The Marine Corps, in concert with the Navy, must orient itself on the rising poles of economic and military power in the Indo-Pacific theater, with the primary tasks of securing this economic center’s vital littoral and maritime lines of communications and acting as a credible and sustainable deterrent force against hostile actions by regional powers, particularly China. First, the Marine Corps’ strategic understanding of the challenges ahead should center on the dramatic shift of economic power to the East, including the Middle East, and the struggle of states and societies there to cope with it. This socioeconomic perspective should eschew the focus on culture above the tactical level as it clouds judgment by loading debate with an ideological perception of unchanging and irreconcilable cultures, rather than recognizing the malleability of culture for good and bad in the face of socioeconomic change. The Indo-Pacific theater, stretching from the coasts of Africa and Arabia roughly to the Kuril-Japan-Philippines-Indonesia line, will be the central front of regional power economic and security competition as rising powers vie over trade, resources, and lines of communications between Africa, the Middle East, and Asia proper. This competition will take place almost exclusively in maritime and littoral spaces, demanding that the Corps return to its roots. Second, the reality that America’s relative power advantage is waning should drive a paradigm shift toward a much more frugal approach to military operations and the strategic expenditure of power. While many of the most critical decisions in this realm are made at the national strategy and policy level, the Marine Corps is uniquely suited to correct the decadence that has been expending our national power at an alarming rate with little impact on mission accomplishment. Coping With a Return to Normalcy America’s period of unprecedented dominance, which shaped the peaceful and prosperous postwar world, is in transition as the world’s economic center of gravity shifts from the Atlantic to the Indo-Pacific.3 As a German officer noted to Frederich Engels in the 1880s, “The basis of warfare is primarily the economic life of peoples.”4 That economic life is changing greatly in the East, driving destabilizing societal changes and remaking the international power structure in which the United States is the strongest state in a much unrulier cast of rising powers. America will still be the world leader but with less of a power advantage. Its developed world allies are growing weaker from domestic fiscal and political troubles, meaning status quo leaders will have less leverage against regional powers seeking change. The last time the world saw this unstable power structure was between the World Wars, when British hegemony faded, the United States was ascendant but remained in relative isolation, Germany made its play for world domination, and Japan sought to carve out regional dominance in the Pacific.5 The results need not be so dramatic, but in this transformation we are experiencing what historian Paul Kennedy calls a return to “normalcy,”6 in which America is no longer a hyperpower but only the strongest state in a group of powers likely to come into conflict. The heart of global commerce is moving to routes that stretch from the oil fields inland of the Arabian Sea, through the littoral regions of India and China and the sea lines of communications (SLOCs) that serve them, and to the islands and coastal states of Southeast Asia. This crossroads of world commerce is tied to other theaters by water as well. The Indian Ocean stretches to emerging markets in Africa, the Bab el-Mendeb Strait and the Suez connect the Indo-Pacific to the massive European market, and the vast expanse of the Pacific connects Asia to the Americas, especially the political and economic opportunities of South America. This is China’s backyard. India’s star is rising in the region as well, but its development is more private sector-driven and less militaristic. Iran, situated on the Persian Gulf and the critical Strait of Hormuz, pursues asymmetric maritime and littoral capabilities at one end of the theater. North Korea’s weapons are a significant and unpredictable threat at the other end. Extraregional powers have interests in the Indo-Pacific too. Russia continues to maintain some blue water capability, in addition to strategic missile, bomber, and patrol capabilities. He who controls the Indo-Pacific controls the future. Chinese maritime commerce in 2020 will exceed $1 trillion, and 75 percent of its oil will come via the sea.7 The constrained SLOCs between China, her resources, and her markets are a critical vulnerability that has Chinese strategists combining 19th century naval theories with Maoist concepts of asymmetry. Chinese strategists see American hegemony as potentially hostile and desire capabilities to selectively deny access to the Indo-Pacific8 and to police it on their own. While not officially acknowledged, Chinese strategists have staked out phase lines on their sea flank consisting of first (Kurils, Japan, Ryukus, Taiwan, Philippines, and Indonesia), second (Japan, Bonins, Marianas, and Palau), and even third (Hawaii and other U.S. mid-Pacific bases) island chains9 as markers of China’s encirclement and antiaccess goals. The second chain encompasses China’s “near seas,” ranged by ballistic missiles, including a new “carrier killer” missile.10 Chinese capabilities to this end, especially if considered beyond 2020, are improving and present both challenge and opportunity for the Marine Corps. Several phenomena contribute to a rising likelihood of conflict starting around 2020. The opportunity presented by America’s self-induced power expenditures in the past decade and what Chinese analysts “gleefully” see as impending defeat in Afghanistan11 has brought increasing use of the term “multipolarity” in Chinese publications. Some speculate that America’s recent emphasis on security cooperation likewise reflects a realization that our capabilities do not match our ambitions in the region.12 This perception of a weakened and distracted America will encourage aggressive policies during the fleeting window of opportunity before China faces significant domestic challenges within the coming decades. Its one-child policy means that it faces an aging and soon-to-decline population, while its rapid growth has left behind a significant portion of the population. Inequality and corruption are bringing some insiders to question the sustainability of China’s political and economic model of growth.13 The generation now coming to power was shaped in the significantly nationalist milieu that followed the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989, producing an expectation of Chinese dominance and a return to its rightful place as a world leader in their lifetime. Leaders seeking to sustain growth and divert domestic discontent may choose aggressive nationalistic foreign policies if their alternatives are not properly shaped through a combination of diplomacy and deterrence. Preparing for Greater Challenges The transitions in the world’s economic and power structure laid out above provide clear indications of the Corps’ likely future role and the frugal calculus that is required to avoid further depleting national resources. The Corps must continue to be an expeditionary force capable of operating across the spectrum of war, but likely developments suggest key areas of focus. Afghanistan will require small wars skills in the near term, which must be retained to deal with the effects of socioeconomic transition kindled into proxy wars by regional powers or transnational movements. Additionally, the Corps will continue to have equity in theater functional and contingency plans, especially humanitarian assistance/disaster relief and noncombatant evacuation operations. State collapse in Pakistan has been highlighted as a likely scenario in the near term, which would call on many of the above skills,14 but beyond securing nuclear material, strategic calculus dictates an extremely cautious approach to what would be a much more taxing entanglement than either Iraq or Afghanistan. Looking past these requirements, the Corps must orient itself on the challenge in the Indo-Pacific, which requires a frugal, truly expeditionary, and adaptive force capable of operating in the face of robust and asymmetric threats. In particular, the antiaccess threats and multiple chokepoint straits in the region require a Corps capable of establishing and defending advanced bases near key ports and sea lanes, operating in a distributed and maneuverable manner in high-threat environments, and maintaining the tempo of its operations in the face of jamming and defeat of communications and intelligence systems, including space-based systems. While other Services will seek high-end technological solutions, the Marine Corps should pursue intelligent capabilities and doctrines more likely to be sustainable over time and in the face of future conflict. The Nation and the Corps can best maintain access, build equity, and gain insight into the region through security cooperation and engagement over the next 5 to 10 years. Near the end of that period, small wars capabilities will likely be called for again as regional powers seek to gain influence by proxy in lower end conflicts. America, however, should judiciously avoid staking her prestige on state-building projects based on the ideology of democracy promotion. Involvement and objectives should be carefully circumscribed to serve key interests and conserve power for more significant challenges on the horizon. The likelihood of significant conflict will begin to rise somewhere around 2020, growing into midcentury. The United States will face the proliferation of strategic antiaccess weapons to regional powers and precision antiship and improved surface-to-air missile systems to virtually all threat states and many nonstate actors. While China is pursuing late-generation capabilities and attempting to expand her influence across the theater, strategists recognize that they are still well behind American capabilities. For this reason, influential analysts promote an emphasis on “informationalized” and space weapons to create a nonlinear and “noncontact” threat well past the first island chain, as well as “attack capabilities for battle operations on exterior lines.” This line of thinking seeks to outflank American air capabilities by building a “powerful navy that possesses relative space superiority,”15 while attacking air bases with ballistic missiles and aircraft carriers with the recently fielded Dong-Feng-21D (CSS–5 Mod–4) “carrier killer” missile system. For full effect, these systems require integration with over-the-horizon intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems that, once combined and fielded in sufficient numbers, pose a significant threat to U.S. assets in the Pacific and may overwhelm antiballistic missile defenses through sheer numbers. While some analysts feel these threats currently fall short of their advertised capabilities, the fielding of the CSS–5 Mod–4 was “much earlier than expected,”16 giving China years to improve before conflict is likely. What’s more, China need not achieve global parity with the United States to achieve its regional goals. In the face of likely threats and threat intentions, the Corps should focus on several capabilities. The antiaccess missile threat demands the ability to distribute forces, particularly aviation assets and naval support facilities, to multiple forward locations in the case of conflict. The Corps must be prepared to secure, defend, and operate from austere advanced bases, continuing to develop operational maneuver and distributed operations capabilities in order to project and disperse combat power. This capability must include the rapid movement of aviation assets and their ability to operate on short, unimproved, and rapidly repaired runways without ponderous support requirements. The importance and channelized nature of SLOCs in the Indo-Pacific requires a focus on rapidly securing their land flanks, particularly in straits and in the face of mobile surface-to-air and antiship missiles and swarming small boat tactics with the possibility of suicide attacks. When considering such threats, the Corps and the Nation should recognize that the kamikaze threat was swarming and asymmetric, but the stakes of the conflict merited accepting it. Finally, the Corps must account for the defense of islands and straits against future, if less capable, amphibious threats. The nature of the theater and the threat demand the agility of island hopping without a prohibitive logistical tail. Today’s Corps must regain this agility in mindset, doctrine, and equipment. Distributed operations require robust fire support, especially from aviation assets that must be capable of operations in both a high threat and an austere expeditionary environment. At face value, the Corps’ focus on manned short takeoff and vertical landing platforms answers the mail, but the reality has not lived up to the photo opportunities in combat operations. Furthermore, the cost of the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) and other high-end capabilities, when used as single solutions, do not provide the ideal return on investment when the platforms’ full capabilities will only be needed in select scenarios by a limited number of aircraft if properly organized and tasked. These capabilities also make little sense as today’s “daily driver” when paying astronomical high-end flight hour costs for mundane missions. We are flying the wings off of expensive platforms, which will only become truer with the JSF. Instead of seeking only transformational (and transformationally expensive) platforms as the sole solution for the force, a mix of more mundane platforms, ranging from armed utility turboprop aircraft to armed unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), is warranted. These platforms can be transformationally equipped, integrated, and employed with the proper vision. Simpler plug-and-play platforms would give the Service greater numbers, greater flexibility, and a deterrent force that is sustainable fiscally and technologically. If air superiority or advanced integrated air defense systems are the problems, there will be joint fixed-wing assets on hand to deal with them, augmented by a small contingent of Marine JSFs. As Under Secretary of the Navy Robert O. Work points out, Marines must embrace the fact that future “theater entry missions” will be joint in nature,17 which should be a premise for reducing redundancy in procurement of high-end capabilities. In particular, the Corps should lead the way in the transition from manned to unmanned close air support (CAS) and antiair warfare platforms to the maximum extent possible. Rather than taking the Marine aviator “out of the loop,” this is removing the aviator’s physiological limitations and protection requirements to a ground station where he can have much more robust situational awareness tools. While some manned aircraft must be retained for specific and dynamic CAS situations and to help control UAS flights, armed UASs can generally provide greater return on investment. In today’s fight, the Corps could use the long dwell time of a UAS armed with precision weapons and an electrooptical sensor capable of positive identification and designation of difficult targets. In a high-intensity conflict, the absence of an onboard pilot reduces weight for more capable sensors, avionics, and countermeasures, while improving performance capabilities and increasing expendability. The Corps of the future must also be better able to operate in a communications, global positioning system, and satellite jam/defeat environment. The United States can expect denial of use of some of its “big wing” high-value airborne assets and may even see carrier-based aviation significantly impacted. Emission control measures on high-value platforms necessitated by threat sensors will likewise degrade the capabilities of our highly communications-dependent forces. Larger numbers of UASs can be part of a network of air and ground nodes that make up a command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence (C4I) cloud that would be much harder to attack with cyber, electronic, and information weapons. The Corps must make use of technology to improve the resilience of its C4I systems, but it must also live up to its doctrinal adherence to centralized command and decentralized control, fighting the micromanaging influence of and crippling dependence on technology. Networks of airborne sensors in affordable and expendable UAS platforms will also help the Corps with the antiaccess problem, finding the deadliest mobile antiship and antiair weapons. A distributed solution is needed for amphibious forces as well. While the joint high-speed vessel and littoral combat ship are a step in the right direction, assault forces will need to be further distributed to smaller, faster, and less expensive vessels that will be more able to evade and overwhelm swarming threats and shorebased systems reduced by aviation action. This incomplete and rudimentary collection of suggestions is meant only to point debate and innovation in a certain direction. While technology was highlighted, the human aspect of conflict is where Marines will continue to excel. For Marines steeped in the Middle East, study of and contact with the rest of the theater are a must. Our current robust engagement with U.S. Pacific Command partners is a good start, but many in the region are more concerned with the strategic balance of powers there than with engagement.18 Marine Corps capabilities must make up a significant portion of that balance, given the littoral and maritime challenges in the theater. Marines should seek to lead the way on military-to-military engagement of China, as well. At worst, this will illuminate the ways we need to innovate against a potential future foe. Staying on Our Feet Until the Fight Stemming the expenditure of America’s relative power advantage19 is central to sustainable deterrence, a key strategic consideration that has been little referenced in the conduct of American operations over the past decade. Stated bluntly by international relations scholar Stephen Walt: Decades from now, historians will look back and wonder how the United States allowed itself to get bogged down in a long and costly war to determine the political fate of [a] landlocked country whose entire gross national product (GNP) is about a quarter the size of the New York city budget.20 A more telling figure is that yearly U.S. military spending in Afghanistan alone is nearly 10 times that country’s GNP. While a discussion of the merits of the strategic conduct of the campaign in Afghanistan, or its lack thereof, lies beyond the scope of this article, the costs of any policy goal must be carefully weighed and minimized whenever possible. Expenditures today may have a hefty price in human life and national interests tomorrow as they erode America’s relative power and encourage others to pursue aggressive policies, and thus they must be scrutinized. Captivated by the Nation’s predominant power and seemingly benevolent ideology,21 American pundits often ignore such accounting, but the realist calculus of hard power and its expenditure is not lost on our foes. The United States willfully obliged al-Qaeda’s openly avowed intent to engage its enemy in a “bleeding war.”22 The 11 September 2001 attacks brought American forces to small arms range in the Muslim world, bogging America down in a decade of war, extracting over $1 trillion of military expenditures,23 inflicting significant attrition and overutilization of equipment, and precipitating the loss of prestige to various audiences. Today the United States is its own worst enemy, its ideology and waste driving spiraling expenditures (far too many of which have nothing to do with victory), much as President Ronald W. Reagan’s policies are believed to have done to the Soviet Union in the popular if questionable telling of the end of the Cold War. The Marine Corps must do all it can to stem the decline of American power by returning to a calculated, frugal, and zealously mission-focused expenditure of fiscal resources, manpower, and overall combat power in current conflicts. As we look toward the future, the watchword should be credible and sustainable deterrence of threats, signifying a much more diligent calculation of cost versus benefit across the range of operations, from procurement and personnel policy to doctrine and operational art. We must stay on our feet until the fight. Marine leaders should do all they can to stem the hemorrhage at their level, yet the brunt of these changes must be shouldered by commanders and staffs above the battalion level. The Marine Corps has always been the most frugal of the Services, but this role is ever harder to faithfully pursue. The reasons were brilliantly satirized by The Onion, in which Gen James N. Mattis purportedly writes that the United States will never win in Afghanistan unless U.S. Central Command gets a pinball machine. The sacrifices made by the troops require the best that Congressional money can buy. “We’re talking multi-ball, frequent jackpots, a third flipper midway up the game board . . . . ”24 The reality behind the satire is that all sorts of gadgets and programs are sold with similar pleas. Often the programs are less ridiculous, sometimes only marginally, but the free money mindset is rampant. When told that an onbase construction project in Afghanistan was unneeded, one contracting officer recently stated, “It’s not our money, it is USFOR(A) [United States Forces Afghanistan] money,” to legitimize the expenditure. Such attitudes are mortgaging the future of our Nation through decadent carelessness. Money is no small contributor to combat power and the economic health of the Nation. Nothing is more expensive than personnel. The Corps must be ruthless in rooting out wasteful personnel policies and returning Marines to the Operating Forces. It is the height of callousness to expect struggling taxpayers to fund the plethora of bands or the All Marine Chess Team when we also have our hand out for the most advanced equipment money can buy. Likewise, it is wrong to expect others to deploy again and again in their stead. Supporting Establishment billets, too, must be carefully scrutinized. Marines would rather have more trigger pullers by their side. Even in the Operating Forces, staff officers must be given a suppressant against the appetite for bloating staffs with individual augments that gut line units, impacting readiness and precluding Marines’ training, progression, and dwell time. We will not always have the luxury of gutting nondeployed units to fill staffs. If we will not be able to do so in the fight of our lives, there is no need to do it now. Coming challenges demand only the most sustainable and mission focused policies as the Nation enters what may be the most critical period of its history. The Marine Corps must serve the Nation and its own interests by leading the way in this dimension, rather than contributing to our hastened demise. Conclusion Whatever our vision of the future, it must be founded concretely upon possible geostrategic scenarios rather than abstract concepts centered on technology and tactics. This article has focused on China as the most significant threat on the horizon, but we must keep our eye on a range of others. Both Iran and North Korea possess dangerous weapons systems combined with fanaticism and erratic, if awkwardly rational, foreign policy. Iran can wreak havoc on the Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz, while North Korea can threaten commerce on two seas. India is currently a staunch ally, but that country could change dramatically in the coming decades. Nuclear armed and equipped with modern weaponry, India’s regional interests may clash with others as well. We are tangentially familiar with the perils of Pakistan and its confrontations with India, which become only more fearsome if Pakistan experiences a coup or state failure. Other prospects loom. A dictatorial and militaristic regime could emerge once again in the Arab Middle East or South America, and the United States could be called upon to rebut territorial aggression. In the least likely, but potentially worst scenario, a crisis-weakened European Union could fail, returning Europe to a patchwork of nations with conflicting interests. War on the continent within the next 50 years is not unthinkable. For all of these reasons, the Corps must maintain a global watch but should avoid Balkanizing itself into regional enclaves. Language and culture are important, but culture changes as society responds to changing economic situations, and ideological viewpoints of culture poison the cold calculus required in war. This century will witness some of the greatest socioeconomic transformations in history, and we must have the physical and intellectual agility to deal with change across the globe. When the Nation truly needs us, we will all be going to the same place, wherever that may be.</span>

<span class="Underline">American power solves poverty, violence, and extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas P.M. Barnett, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, 3-7-2011, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of arguably the greatest structural change in the global order yet endured, with this historical moment's most amazing feature being its relative and absolute lack of mass violence. That is something to consider when Americans contemplate military intervention in Libya, because if we do take the step to prevent larger-scale killing by engaging in some killing of our own, we will not be adding to some fantastically imagined global death count stemming from the ongoing "megalomania" and "evil" of American "empire." We'll be engaging in the same sort of system-administering activity that has marked our stunningly successful stewardship of global order since World War II. Let me be more blunt: As the guardian of globalization, the U.S. military has been the greatest force for peace the world has ever known. Had America been removed from the global dynamics that governed the 20th century, the mass murder never would have ended. Indeed, it's entirely conceivable there would now be no identifiable human civilization left, once nuclear weapons entered the killing equation. But the world did not keep sliding down that path of perpetual war. Instead, America stepped up and changed everything by ushering in our now-perpetual great-power peace. We introduced the international liberal trade order known as globalization and played loyal Leviathan over its spread. What resulted was the collapse of empires, an explosion of democracy, the persistent spread of human rights, the liberation of women, the doubling of life expectancy, a roughly 10-fold increase in adjusted global GDP and a profound and persistent reduction in battle deaths from state-based conflicts. That is what American "hubris" actually delivered. Please remember that the next time some TV pundit sells you the image of "unbridled" American military power as the cause of global disorder instead of its cure. With self-deprecation bordering on self-loathing, we now imagine a post-American world that is anything but. Just watch who scatters and who steps up as the Facebook revolutions erupt across the Arab world. While we might imagine ourselves the status quo power, we remain the world's most vigorously revisionist force. As for the sheer "evil" that is our military-industrial complex, again, let's examine what the world looked like before that establishment reared its ugly head. The last great period of global structural change was the first half of the 20th century, a period that saw a death toll of about 100 million across two world wars. That comes to an average of 2 million deaths a year in a world of approximately 2 billion souls. Today, with far more comprehensive worldwide reporting, researchers report an average of less than 100,000 battle deaths annually in a world fast approaching 7 billion people. Though admittedly crude, these calculations suggest a 90 percent absolute drop and a 99 percent relative drop in deaths due to war. We are clearly headed for a world order characterized by multipolarity, something the American-birthed system was designed to both encourage and accommodate. But given how things turned out the last time we collectively faced such a fluid structure, we would do well to keep U.S. power, in all of its forms, deeply embedded in the geometry to come. To continue the historical survey, after salvaging Western Europe from its half-century of civil war, the U.S. emerged as the progenitor of a new, far more just form of globalization -- one based on actual free trade rather than colonialism. America then successfully replicated globalization further in East Asia over the second half of the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding. </span>

<span class="Underline">There are infinite root causes of violence, only deterrence solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Moore, 04 Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law (John Norton Moore, “Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 41-43) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence, what is the role of many traditional “causes” of war? Past and many contemporary, theories of war and religious differences, arms races, poverty or social injustice, competition for resources, incidents and accidents, greed, fear, and perceptions of “honor”, or many other such factors. Such factors may well play a role in motivating aggression or in serving as a means for generating fear and manipulating public opinion. The reality, however, is that while some of these may have more potential to contribute to war than others, there may well be an infinite set of motivating factors, or human wants, motivating aggression. It is not the independent existence of such motivating factors for war but rather the circumstances permitting or encouraging high risk decisions leading to war that are the key to most effectively controlling war….Yet another way to conceptualize the importance of democracy and deterrence in war avoidance is to note that each in its own way internalizes the costs to decision elites of engaging in high risk aggressive behavior. Democracy internalizes these costs in a variety of ways including displeasure of the electorate at having war imposed upon it by its own government. And deterrence either prevents achievement of the objective altogether or imposes punishing costs making the gamble not worth the risk.</span>
===1AC state - democracy advantage=== 
NOTE: We read this advantage instead of Crisis Management round 3 and in octos

<span class="Underline">The military’s role is shifting from warfighting to occupation – this is eroding democracy and civil military relations</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The primary issue here is that diplomatic and police authorities have a different focus of effort; their purposes are to minimize or manage violence. When military personnel become good at occupying foreign lands, rooting out crime, building political institutions, and sponsoring markets, they are not increasing the skills needed to survive and prevail in the battlespace. This is not to say that all non-war activities are improper. Many of the functions necessary to war proficiency are simulated in non-war activities. Delivering humanitarian aid, for example, in a hurricane or earthquake ravaged terrain is excellent training for moving logistics into restricted 24 access or contested territories in times of conflict. In many crisis situations, legitimate governing authority is unable to deliver goods because of lawlessness and threats to civilian personnel. In these situations, military forces carry an implicit threat of violence should bandits try to disrupt distribution activities. As an ad hoc or temporary crisis response, all such activities have merit. They increase the capacity of civilian authorities to care for distressed populations, and they add valuable real world training opportunities for legitimate military support functions. Serious problems emerge when these activities become routine, however. For example, long duration support and logistics activities become ensconced over time as scheduled military functions, and drain away personnel and support that should be conserved for military operations. This increases the size of the military in terms of personnel and budget, and to the extent these actions become permanent (or at least long-term fixed requirements) they detract from the war fighting capacity of the services as these assets are not retrievable and mobile should another conflict occur. Also, the perception of the US military as an occupying and imperial force grows the longer it is engaged in even humanitarian operations in a given locale. Americans generally believe their military is helping the people in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere, and I like to think that is the intent. Nonetheless, I can certainly understand that Afghani or Iraqi citizens would be suspicious of America ever returning control of their country after more than eight years (and counting) of significant presence. The preceding is based on the notion that military occupation is not going well, thus its continuance is needed. This is a rather perverse military notion; perpetually reinforcing failure. It is the equivalent logic of the excesses of attrition warfare in WW I, or the body count mentality that extended America’s military involvement in Vietnam. It is the sunk cost dilemma. And it is accurate, to the extent the US has adopted a policy of 100 per cent success—victory— in the so-called War on Terror. The refrain that persists is that America cannot leave, for what is the price of failure? 25 It is just as important to ask the parallel question, what is the cost of success? Imagine that the US is wildly successful. Five or ten years from now, say, both Iraq and Afghanistan have viable liberal democratic governments with growing economies and friendly attitudes toward America. A few military personnel remain on permanent military bases fairly negotiated and welcomed by the local population. These two states become models for the Muslim world to emulate. What will it do then with this wonderful, state-building military force? Will America move on to the next authoritarian state, North Korea or Iran, perhaps? Why not Venezuela, or Cambodia? Name the state where corruption or oppression exists, the US military can fix it. What if, in light of its extraordinary capacity to minimize violence, restore order, build governing institutions and markets, and establish popular governance, a few Americans start disagreeing with their own government’s policies? Imagine a disastrous natural event, an epoch-defining earthquake in the Mississippi basin, perhaps. Add in an economic downturn that pushes unemployment above twenty percent and an irresponsive or bumbling president and congress. No military professional today would answer the call for a military coup—but would the veterans of successful state-building in Iraq and Afghanistan be able to avoid helping their fellow citizens if they came begging for aid? It is a slippery slope, to be sure, and not a danger that looms on the event horizon. But it crystallizes the propriety of use to which America’s military is being put today, and the preference that many anti-weaponization proponents have for a conventional response on earth for an attack on assets in space. It suggests a value for placing weapons in space that goes beyond military logic, and confronts the moral high ground claims of those who would avoid weaponizing space in all cases. </span>

<span class="Underline">Small unit space transport is structurally democratizing</span>
<span class="Underline">DOLMAN 1997 (Everett, PhD in poli sci, “Military, Democracy, and the State in Robert A. Heinlein’s Starship Troopers,” Political Science Fiction, ed. Hassler and Wilcox, pp. 203)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">If arming the population decreases the threat of foreign invasion but increases the likelihood of rebellion, and, conversely, disarming the population, while suppressing the tendency for revolt, invites foreign adven-turism (Vagts 168), how can the state preserve itself? Heinlein believes he has solved this dilemma by only arming members of the state who are predisposed to loyalty toward it, evidenced by their willingness to vol-unteer to serve it. In a much-maligned passage, he contends “revolution is impossible” in the Terran Feder-ation because “armed uprising [requires] not only dissatisfaction but aggressiveness. . . . If you separate out the aggressive [members of society] and make them the sheepdogs [through military service], the sheep will never give you any trouble” (Starship Troopers 146). Hintze offers a structural solution. The military can be thought to have two primary roles: defense of the state from external threat and defense of the government from internal threat. The former role is conducive to liberty and democracy, for it protects and nurtures society. Without a military force to protect it, demo-cratic society would fall prey to neighboring expansionist authoritarian states. The latter role is obviously not conducive to liberty and democracy. In effect, the military becomes a tool of oppression. Hintze notes that a military structure dominated by the army is prone to succumbing to the latter role, but a structure dominated by the navy is not. This is because the navy is a poor and inefficient occupier of territory. It has tremendous power projection but little or no ability to sway internal public opinion. For this reason, nations which have traditionally relied on naval power for state security have developed relatively more democratic and libertine constitutions than their contemporaries (21315, e.g. Britain and the United States; Vagts 13, 356). In Star-ship Troopers the distinction holds, and bodes well for the maintenance of democracy. The Mobile Infantry (MI), despite its appellation as a ground force, is, in the age of interplanetary warfare, a component of the space navy, a military organization of offensive force projection. It concentrates incredible firepower in the hands of a few small units deployed on highly mobile spaceships. Their mission is to go in, create havoc, and get out. Like the navies of nineteenth-century Britain, which controlled the empire by controlling com-munications and transportation lines (Mahan; Keeghan, 110), the MI secures the safety of the Terran Feder-ation by forcing the other side to maintain defensive positions. Heinlein makes a considerable effort to show the folly of a popular call for retreat to a defensive perimeter, which would make the MI an army of occupation and a clear threat to democracy, following the alien enemy's “smear[ing]” of Buenos Aires (Starship Troopers 106). Though Heinlein was espousing a military doctrine, it has the effect of conforming to sound policy of antimilitarist civilian control as well. The macro view of military-democratic interaction, in which the structures of one institution affect the evolution and organization of the other, readily transforms into a micro view, in which a spiraling interac-tion of individual rights conferred and rights demanded takes place. The military veteran, armed and now steeled in battle, will demand more rights and greater access than previously granted by the state. These de-mands cannot be ignored by the government, as the soldier has the potential power to take those rights by force, and these demands will continue until the citizen feels completely enfranchised. This path to franchise is commonly accepted. The notion that a military veteran should enjoy full rights of citizenship is “an implicit social contract” virtually universal in the modern democratic state (Berryman 10; Segal 10). Yet more than just the right to vote (franchise) is implicit in the journey toward citizenship. Equal-ity is the ultimate goal. During the United States Civil War, Joseph Glatthaar writes that “colored” volun-teers enthusiastically enlisted to aid in the fight to abolish slavery. After having fought gallantly, they let it be known that “their ultimate goal had been equal rights with whites” (231). </span>

<span class="Underline">Yes, our evidence is about Sustain</span>
<span class="Underline">Alexander, ‘6 [Gary, psychotherapist, M.A., Vietnam veteran, http://leatherneckm31.typepad.com/leatherneckm31/2006/12/space_marines_h.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Fans of science fiction have long known that the genre's best writers have accurately predicted the future as well as entertained with it. And so it is with Heinlein, a U.S. Naval Academy graduate and WWII veteran who passed away in 1988. He was near unerring in his vision of future combat in space; Starship Troopers is a virtual description of Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion, or SUSTAIN... an actual Marine Corps program that is designed to put boots on the ground anywhere in the world in two hours or less via a suborbital space transport, perhaps as soon as 2040. </span>


<span class="Underline">Military structure is empirically key to liberalization</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 3 )</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> The opacity of military influence is in part explained because its primary effects are structural rather than agent-based. Modern study of the civil–military relationship tends to focus solely on the problem of direct intervention by the military into affairs of the state—the military coup d’etat or so-called praetorianism. Personalities and unique cultural and geopolitical factors dominate analyses. To be sure, direct military intervention is a distinct problem in authoritarian states and fledgling democracies, especially in less developed countries, but its overall importance is magnified by a regionally myopic and short-term outlook. The larger and more profound military to society influence, appreciated by classic theorists, is passive and indirect, affecting political structures through gradual sociological transformations in the population. Those changed are often unaware of its directing influence; and so they are receptive, tending to internalize the changes readily. Moreover, those acting on behalf of the state may be unable to modify or reform the military to their desired mode, even when they recognize a negative or undesirable influence on their political structures. The exigencies of war, the juxtaposition of competing states and their relative military power, and contemporary dominating military technologies and strategies can compel a state to accept an unwanted military organization in order to survive. Analyses that present mono-influential trajectories of state or military development must always be flawed, yet this is the typical method. For most of those who study the problems of war and tyranny, the impact of the military is assigned a negative role in the development of agreeable governmental forms such as democracy or republicanism, and conversely, a positive role in the appearance of disagreeable ones such as absolutist autocracies and dictatorships. The explicit focus of these studies is to find means for mitigating the most damaging influences of politico-military interaction. Sporadically we find classical theorists like Machiavelli who will reverse the force’s polarity, and assign always positive democratizing or republican influences to certain types of military forces, but this view is in the distinct minority. The rise and development of military forces across time is too varied and rich, however, for such simple, mono-influential theories. The alternative presented here is that the tenor and direction of influence are not uniform, but are instead dependent on the structure and organization of the armed force. Note that this theory does not dispute the well-documented historical role of militaries supporting authoritarian governments and opposing democratic ones. Through most of recorded Western history, and currently in most of the nonWestern world, militaries have been organized in a manner that sustained authoritarian political control. During several recognizable and separable periods in European and American history, however, military influence had a decidedly opposite impact. Without exception, wherever increasingly inclusive republican or democratic regimes have spontaneously emerged (i.e., rose to power internally and not as a result of external imposition), radical changes in military organization and structure can be shown to have shortly preceded radical political change. When the military has had a positive (supporting) role for authoritarian government, its organizational structure has been very different from when it has had a positive influence on republican or democratic ones. In order to make the case, Western military organizations in various historical periods will be isolated and examined to determine structural differentiations that contribute to these exclusively different influences. These examples will be employed to directly dispute monodirectional hypotheses, such as the more militarized the state the more likely it is to develop an authoritarian political structure.3 To the contrary, massive militarization appears instead to have had a very strong correlation with both the emergence of absolutist monarchies in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Europe and the development of mass participation political structures in the eighteenth through twentieth centuries in Europe and North America. Of particular interest and importance, fully discussed in the following chapters, the mass military mobilizations of the modern era directly preceded the mass political mobilizations of modern liberal democracy. s</span>

<span class="Underline">US military reform is modeled – spreads democracy globally</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 159) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Domestically and as a plan for foreign policy, a proper military organization is a relatively inexpensive and potentially high payout option. The issue has salience as the world moves closer to universal democracy, or at least as the United States pushes democratization as a pillar of its foreign policy. As American liberal democracy is the world’s oldest and most stable, it has become a model for others, a beacon of hope for many. Its military is at present the world’s strongest, and the most emulated. The interplay between military organization and political institutions here becomes critical. Where goes the United States, goes the world. </span>

<span class="Underline">This model is key to prevent global conflict escalation </span>
<span class="Underline">Perry, 96 (William, former secretary of defense, Federal News Service, 5/13, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Democracy is learned behavior. Many nations today have democracies that exist on paper, but in fact are extremely fragile. And elections are a necessary but an insufficient condition for a free society. It is also necessary to embed democratic values in the key institutions of the nation. And I believe that our Defense Department has a key role to play in this effort. In virtually every new democracy -- in Russia, in the newly free nations of the former Soviet Union, in Central and Eastern Europe, in South America and the Asian tigers -- the military represents a major force. In many cases it is the most cohesive institution, and it often contains a large percentage of the educated elite, and it controls key resources. In short, it is an institution that can either support democracy or subvert it. And we must recognize that each society moving from totalitarianism to democracy will be tested at some point by a crisis. It could be an economic crisis, it could be a backslide on human rights or freedoms, a border or ethnic dispute with a neighboring country. But when such a crisis occurs, we want the military to play a positive role in resolving the crisis, not a negative role by fanning the flames of the crisis, or even using the crisis as a pretext for a military coup. In these new democracies we can choose to ignore this important institution, or we can try to exert a positive influence. We have chosen the latter. And, believe me, we do have the ability to influence. Indeed, every military in the world looks to the U.S. armed forces as the model to be emulated. That is a valuable bit of leverage, and we can put it to use creatively in our preventive defense strategy. </span>

<span class="Underline">Goes nuclear</span>
<span class="Underline">Cimbala 98 [Stephen, prof. of polisci at Penn State, “The Past and Future of Nuclear Deterrence”, p. 21 http://books.google.com/books?id=Zhi5zXI1RVYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=%22The+Past+and+Future+of+Nuclear+Deterrence”&source=bl&ots=9SimzkvvFw&sig=bVaJBOBVkneaHbIPkHH1I3HGsAs&hl=en&ei=Q4QzTMbgDZSlngfuqLz5Aw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">In particular, the quality of political regimes and the extent to which they successfully hold their military establishments accountable will do much to determine whether a world without nuclear superpowers is more or less stable than the world we are now leaving behind. Unaccountable praetorian governments holding small nuclear arsenals could provide scary moments, visions of hell at the regional level with ethnic, religious, and national wars abetted by weapons of mass destruction. To avoid this, the United States, Russia, and other major powers will have to take strong stands against horizontal proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. Washington, Moscow, and other capitals of nuclear-armed states will also have to contain their own vertical proliferation or buildup of potlatch forces of competitive discard for relative advantage. The connection between the U.S. and Russian self-denial and international collaboration against nuclear proliferation is not always obvious, but it is real, as perceived by potential proliferators and by other states that fear the consequences of proliferation. </span>

<span class="Underline">Empirically democratization helps the environment</span>
<span class="Underline">LI & REUVENY 06 1. The Pennsylvania State University 2. Indiana University</span>
<span class="Underline">[Quan Li, Rafael Reuveny, Democracy and Environmental Degradation, International Studies Quarterly, Volume 50, Issue 4, pages 935–956, December 2006]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The various causal mechanisms in the theoretical literature on the effect of democracy on environmental degradation, although often conflicting, are all plausible given their theoretical assumptions. In other words, it is not possible to distinguish among them based on the theoretical arguments alone. As these causal mechanisms may operate at the same time, it is important to study their overall or net effect empirically. This is the focus of our analysis. The dependent variable in our empirical/statistical model, environmental degradation, is measured with five salient types of human-induced degradation: carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, land degradation, deforestation, and organic pollution in water. For each type of degradation, we estimate several regression-based statistical models using various measures of democracy/autocracy. Depending on data availability for the environmental indicators, the number of countries included in the empirical sample varies from 105 for the land degradation analysis to 143 for the CO2 emissions per capita analysis. Our empirical analysis differs from previous studies in a number of ways. We focus on human activities that directly affect environmental quality. The sample size is generally larger than previous studies. The empirical results for the effect of democracy on the environment are consistent across all the above types of human-induced degradation: a rise in democracy reduces environmental degradation and improves environmental performance. The substantive effect of democracy on the environment is considerable, but it varies in size across different aspects of environmental degradation. We also find nonmonotonic effects of democracy that vary across the environmental indicators.</span>


<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Jerry Coyne and Hopi Hoekstra, 9/24/2007. Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of and Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University. “The Greatest Dying,” TruthOut, http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying.</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Aside from the Great Dying, there have been four other mass extinctions, all of which severely pruned life's diversity. Scientists agree that we're now in the midst of a sixth such episode. This new one, however, is different - and, in many ways, much worse. For, unlike earlier extinctions, this one results from the work of a single species, Homo sapiens. We are relentlessly taking over the planet, laying it to waste and eliminating most of our fellow species. Moreover, we're doing it much faster than the mass extinctions that came before. Every year, up to 30,000 species disappear due to human activity alone. At this rate, we could lose half of Earth's species in this century. And, unlike with previous extinctions, there's no hope that biodiversity will ever recover, since the cause of the decimation - us - is here to stay. To scientists, this is an unparalleled calamity, far more severe than global warming, which is, after all, only one of many threats to biodiversity. Yet global warming gets far more press. Why? One reason is that, while the increase in temperature is easy to document, the decrease of species is not. Biologists don't know, for example, exactly how many species exist on Earth. Estimates range widely, from three million to more than 50 million, and that doesn't count microbes, critical (albeit invisible) components of ecosystems. We're not certain about the rate of extinction, either; how could we be, since the vast majority of species have yet to be described? We're even less sure how the loss of some species will affect the ecosystems in which they're embedded, since the intricate connection between organisms means that the loss of a single species can ramify unpredictably. But we do know some things. Tropical rainforests are disappearing at a rate of 2 percent per year. Populations of most large fish are down to only 10 percent of what they were in 1950. Many primates and all the great apes - our closest relatives - are nearly gone from the wild. And we know that extinction and global warming act synergistically. Extinction exacerbates global warming: By burning rainforests, we're not only polluting the atmosphere with carbon dioxide (a major greenhouse gas) but destroying the very plants that can remove this gas from the air. Conversely, global warming increases extinction, both directly (killing corals) and indirectly (destroying the habitats of Arctic and Antarctic animals). As extinction increases, then, so does global warming, which in turn causes more extinction - and so on, into a downward spiral of destruction. Why, exactly, should we care? Let's start with the most celebrated case: the rainforests. Their loss will worsen global warming - raising temperatures, melting icecaps, and flooding coastal cities. And, as the forest habitat shrinks, so begins the inevitable contact between organisms that have not evolved together, a scenario played out many times, and one that is never good. Dreadful diseases have successfully jumped species boundaries, with humans as prime recipients. We have gotten aids from apes, sars from civets, and Ebola from fruit bats. Additional worldwide plagues from unknown microbes are a very real possibility. But it isn't just the destruction of the rainforests that should trouble us. Healthy ecosystems the world over provide hidden services like waste disposal, nutrient cycling, soil formation, water purification, and oxygen production. Such services are best rendered by ecosystems that are diverse. Yet, through both intention and accident, humans have introduced exotic species that turn biodiversity into monoculture. Fast-growing zebra mussels, for example, have outcompeted more than 15 species of native mussels in North America's Great Lakes and have damaged harbors and water-treatment plants. Native prairies are becoming dominated by single species (often genetically homogenous) of corn or wheat. Thanks to these developments, soils will erode and become unproductive - which, along with temperature change, will diminish agricultural yields. Meanwhile, with increased pollution and runoff, as well as reduced forest cover, ecosystems will no longer be able to purify water; and a shortage of clean water spells disaster. In many ways, oceans are the most vulnerable areas of all. As overfishing eliminates major predators, while polluted and warming waters kill off phytoplankton, the intricate aquatic food web could collapse from both sides. Fish, on which so many humans depend, will be a fond memory. As phytoplankton vanish, so does the ability of the oceans to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. (Half of the oxygen we breathe is made by phytoplankton, with the rest coming from land plants.) Species extinction is also imperiling coral reefs - a major problem since these reefs have far more than recreational value: They provide tremendous amounts of food for human populations and buffer coastlines against erosion. In fact, the global value of "hidden" services provided by ecosystems - those services, like waste disposal, that aren't bought and sold in the marketplace - has been estimated to be as much as $50 trillion per year, roughly equal to the gross domestic product of all countries combined. And that doesn't include tangible goods like fish and timber. Life as we know it would be impossible if ecosystems collapsed. Yet that is where we're heading if species extinction continues at its current pace. Extinction also has a huge impact on medicine. Who really cares if, say, a worm in the remote swamps of French Guiana goes extinct? Well, those who suffer from cardiovascular disease. The recent discovery of a rare South American leech has led to the isolation of a powerful enzyme that, unlike other anticoagulants, not only prevents blood from clotting but also dissolves existing clots. And it's not just this one species of worm: Its wriggly relatives have evolved other biomedically valuable proteins, including antistatin (a potential anticancer agent), decorsin and ornatin (platelet aggregation inhibitors), and hirudin (another anticoagulant). Plants, too, are pharmaceutical gold mines. The bark of trees, for example, has given us quinine (the first cure for malaria), taxol (a drug highly effective against ovarian and breast cancer), and aspirin. More than a quarter of the medicines on our pharmacy shelves were originally derived from plants. The sap of the Madagascar periwinkle contains more than 70 useful alkaloids, including vincristine, a powerful anticancer drug that saved the life of one of our friends. Of the roughly 250,000 plant species on Earth, fewer than 5 percent have been screened for pharmaceutical properties. Who knows what life-saving drugs remain to be discovered? Given current extinction rates, it's estimated that we're losing one valuable drug every two years. Our arguments so far have tacitly assumed that species are worth saving only in proportion to their economic value and their effects on our quality of life, an attitude that is strongly ingrained, especially in Americans. That is why conservationists always base their case on an economic calculus. But we biologists know in our hearts that there are deeper and equally compelling reasons to worry about the loss of biodiversity: namely, simple morality and intellectual values that transcend pecuniary interests. What, for example, gives us the right to destroy other creatures? And what could be more thrilling than looking around us, seeing that we are surrounded by our evolutionary cousins, and realizing that we all got here by the same simple process of natural selection? To biologists, and potentially everyone else, apprehending the genetic kinship and common origin of all species is a spiritual experience - not necessarily religious, but spiritual nonetheless, for it stirs the soul. But, whether or not one is moved by such concerns, it is certain that our future is bleak if we do nothing to stem this sixth extinction. We are creating a world in which exotic diseases flourish but natural medicinal cures are lost; a world in which carbon waste accumulates while food sources dwindle; a world of sweltering heat, failing crops, and impure water. In the end, we must accept the possibility that we ourselves are not immune to extinction. Or, if we survive, perhaps only a few of us will remain, scratching out a grubby existence on a devastated planet. Global warming will seem like a secondary problem when humanity finally faces the consequences of what we have done to nature: not just another Great Dying, but perhaps the greatest dying of them all.</span>


<span class="Underline">Democratic peace is true – empirical, normative & institutional reasons</span>
<span class="Underline">LEVY & RAZIN 04 1. Professor of Economics. London School of Economics & Tel Aviv University. 2. PhD Economics • London School of Economics & Professor at NYU </span>
<span class="Underline">[Gilat Levy & Ronny Razin, IT TAKES TWO: AN EXPLANATION FOR THE DEMOCRATIC PEACE. Journal of the European Economic Association March 2004 2(1):1–29]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The literature on the democratic peace contains a broad consensus concerning empirical findings. Empirical studies have shown that the tendency for democracies to fight each other is lower (to a statistically significant degree) than that exhibited by other political dyads, at least after 1945.11 Some statistical difficulties are involved however. Looking at the “raw” data, one can see that it is extremely rare for countries within a dyad to be at war, regardless of their regime type. For example, Farber and Gowa (1995) showed that, after 1945, the propensity of countries within a dyad to be at war was 0.08. This should be compared with the propensity of two democracies to engage in war, which is zero. Empirical studies involve testing the significance of the difference between this zero observation and the already rare event of a war; this is further complicated by the fact that there are only a small number of observations available concerning two democracies, as compared with other dyads.12 Nonetheless, most empirical studies support the democratic peace hypothesis, for the post-WWII period at least. Recently, in a study more directly related to the model presented in this paper, Leeds (1999) looked at the propensity of two countries to cooperate, as opposed to their propensity to wage war with each other. In the same spirit of the democratic peace, that author found that, for the period following WWII, democracies are more likely to cooperate than any other dyad. Given the consensus on the empirical issues, the debate in the literature has shifted to focus on the causes of the democratic peace. The theoretical literature encompasses two main perspectives: the normative approach and the structural and institutional approach.13 The normative approach (see, for example, Dixon 1993 and Maoz and Russet 1993), emphasizes the role democratic norms play in favoring nonviolent conflict resolution. Such literature argues that the values held by democracies are applied only when democracies face other democracies, but are otherwise abandoned. While this assumption may solve the theoretical puzzle, it does not provide us with any understanding of why and when these norms arise. Our paper falls within the boundaries of the structural and institutional approach. Such explanations for the phenomenon of the democratic peace highlight the fact that decision making in democratic countries is constrained by the presence of various mechanisms, such as checks and balances, the division of power and the need for public debate to create widespread public support. According to this point of view, one would expect democratic decision making to be slow, sluggish, and transparent. These mechanisms may therefore affect the way countries behave in conflicts. Papers that have attempted to formalize the structural and institutional approach have mostly relied on ad hoc assumptions regarding the difference between institutions. Tangeras (2003) provides an analysis of dyads, but posits different preferences for democracies and autocracies; for example, because war is viewed as a lottery, the likelihood of war is lower in democracies if their degree of relative risk aversion is higher. The explanation provided by Leeds (1999) hinges on exogenous audience costs and the different levels of flexibility inherent in decision making in autocracies and democracies.14 Finally, the analysis undertaken by Bueno de Mesquita et al. (1999) relies upon the assumption that the economic burden of war is divided between a larger group of citizens in democracies, whereas in autocracies only the ruling elite carries the full burden of military costs. They also assume that the benefits of war are distributed to the whole society in both regimes. However, these assumptions are debatable, since it seems more likely that autocrats would force the general public to finance wars while reaping the benefits themselves. In contrast to the previous papers, our approach connects the democratic peace to fundamental differences between different political institutions. Democracies and autocracies differ in our model only in relation to the identity and number of people involved in decision making. We show that it is the presence of information asymmetries and strategic complements in the peace-making process that allows democracies to peacefully resolve conflicts. Moreover, we highlight the importance, to a peaceful resolution, of both the parties in a conflict being democratic regimes.</span>

<span class="Underline">This means the advantage subsumes all disads</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 4 )</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> One of the outcomes of this analysis should be a determination of which military organization characteristics are consistent with the promotion of authoritarianism, and which are consistent with the promotion of political participation. The emphasis is on the latter. Since the abolition of military forces is a remote near-term possibility, the practical payoff is the potential restructuring of existing military institutions to maximize their positive impact on liberal democratic government. In the process, I investigate a decidedly contentious premise. Military factors traditionally considered destabilizing in the international environment (to include large, well-trained armed forces organized for offensive or out-of-country operations) have, at critical junctures in the Western experience, had a distinctly positive impact on the emergence and maintenance of the liberal democratic state. If this is indeed the case and liberal democracy can be shown structurally and normatively to produce interstate peace, then the preferred policy of peace-desiring states should be to promote and implement military reform at home and abroad that most efficiently generates democratic structures and values, regardless of intuitive fears of international instability. In short, if liberal democratic states do not go to war with each other, then the size, proficiency, and strength of their military forces should not be a security dilemma issue. Mounting empirical evidence indeed points to the proliferation of modern liberal democracy as a pacifying force in international relations. Although the phenomenon was first empirically described by David Singer and Melvin Small, it was Michael Doyle who provoked a storm of activity with his attempt to tie the observation to Kant’s claim that liberal democratic states would be naturally less prone to war.4 Tests of the hypothesis showed that democratic states appear just as likely to engage in war as any alternative politically organized state, but what remained intriguing, and promising, was the empirical evidence and rationale that democratic states do not go to war with each other.5 Even where they have had considerable conflicts of interest, liberal democracies appear content to resolve common disputes with rare resort even to the threat of military violence. As more states democratize, these observations lead to the promise of an ever-widening democratic zone of peace, ultimately encompassing the globe and presaging an era of international cooperation and stability. When all states are democratic, war will be a social relic. </span>

<span class="Underline">An offensive military structure is more democratic – creates decentralized government</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 34)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">States with military forces organized for offensive operations will tend to develop a less centralized, more democratic political structure than states whose military forces are organized for defensive operations. A defensive military posture requires the capacity for internal occupation and is therefore conducive to the concentration of power that promotes authoritarian institutions. Conversely, an offensive military structure will have an outward bias, and will be less involved with issues of civil/internal stability. Of course, militaries have had a remarkable capacity to absorb both offensive duties and internal repression chores—the two are not mutually exclusive—but the general interest herein is the impact of one versus the other. On this point of strategic doctrine, I am in at least semantic disagreement with Andreski’s characterization of the “attack versus defence.” He argues that: “other things being equal, the predominance of attack over defence promotes the territorial concentration of political power (centralization), while if defence becomes the stronger form of warfare, a trend toward the territorial dispersion of political power (decentralization) is likely to ensue.”67 Andreski is quite correct for interstate system 34 / the warrior state relations, but the tendency does not hold for intra-state dynamics. When defensive fortifications and tactics are dominant, the system tends to evince pockets of authority in an interstate system. In other words, when defensive technologies are dominant over offensive ones, a state system can be expected to have a larger number of autonomous units. But within those sovereign units, at the intra-state level, the opposite effect is noted. The marshalling of power to hold smaller tracts of territory allows for more direct and coercive control of the individuals within those units. When offense is dominant, dynamic states will swallow up their vulnerable neighbors, producing an interstate system with fewer (larger) autonomous state-level units. Internally, however, military power is pushed to the periphery of an expanding state, diminishing direct control of internal subjects. Command of the military from the center becomes inefficient, and authority to act disperses to forward units and an opportunity for internal liberalization and democratization. A reliance on defense will, within that state (not on the level of the system), cause a centralization of power, a heightening of control as the advantages of interior lines and static point defense allows far stricter adherence to command authority. The abstract cognitive capacity required for offensive operations, as was discussed earlier, is much greater than that for defensive ones. When threatened, it is easy to make a mental connection between banding or grouping and military defense. Offensive operations are more likely to result in the establishment of prearranged or negotiated relationships. The individual soldier has greater leverage in offensive operations, where the threat must be sought out and engaged, than in defensive ones, where the threat is unavoidable. In the defensive mode, the combatant is likely protecting family, property, or comrades. In offensive mode, the combatant must either be coerced to engage in battle, moved through patriotism, ideology, culture, or religion to do so, or paid in some fashion. In the latter cases, the combatant must choose to go to war. In choosing, there is room for maximizing. A military that is organized for offensive operations has in addition an internal decentralization of authority requisite in the need for independent judgment by operational commands. The fluidity and projection of military components beyond preset lines of communications and into a dynamically changing environment requires capacity for independent thought and adaptation. Defensive operations, on the other hand, allow for strict centralized control, predetermined lines of communication, and detailed options or plans for contingencies. Stratification of internal capacities through a strong organizational hierarchy is more likely in defense, where strict attention to defined functions and maintenance of position is demanded. Offensive operations must be prepared for a greater number of surprises, and individuals must be capable of a greater variety of combat functions. In a related argument about offensive and defensive orientation, Alfred Stepan magnifies a change in the emphasis on professionalism that Huntington and Janowitz detailed.68 The old professionalism was outward in its focus, concerned with the requirements of international conflict. The new professionalism, especially in South America and developing states, is defensive and internally focused. Huntington argued that the professional soldier, engaged in issues of external threat, manifests no interest in politics, as it takes time away from war preparation. Stepan countered that the new military’s professionalism was focused on careerism and state arms and state / 35 development. In other words, the state, as supplier and supporter of the military, must develop at a rate sufficient to meet the perceived needs of the military, or the military will feel compelled to intervene. Stepan’s point fails to persuade that an outwardly focused military would not recognize the same need for national development to support its own perceived requirements, even more so if the military is losing a war and begins to blame domestic policy-makers for lack of support. Nonetheless, the point that an outwardly or offensively focused military will be less inclined to interfere in domestic politics in normal or nonwar conditions parallels the argument that organization for the offense is more conducive to establishing and maintaining democratic political institutions than that required for the defense. This separation of intra- from interstate analyses poses a theoretical problem for the state system. An offensively organized military will be perceived as a threat by neighboring states, and will be destabilizing to the interstate environment by promoting spiraling arms races, as each side perceives itself in a relatively weaker position vis-à-vis its potential adversaries. At least this seems to be the conventional wisdom. John Mearsheimer notes, “war is most likely to occur when offense has the advantage over defense” (though he agrees this is not a very useful distinction).69 His characterization seems rather simplistic. The analysis here stresses the notion that an offensively organized military does not mean the state must be offensive. The offensively organized military relies on the ability to attack and punish a transgressor on the offender’s territory, rather than to repulse an attack on the defending state’s territory. It is a reliance on the doctrine of deterrence over that of defense that is important. This argument is tightly linked with the following one. </span>



===1AC MBA=== 
plan
The United States federal government should employ orbital capsules for Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities, incorporating the Scorpius launch system.

1AC – solvency
Orbital capsules make SUSTAIN cheap and feasible
**Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9** [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [[http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]]]
__For SUSTAIN, a man-carrying … **costs spread between several programs.**__


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Multiple factors hinder the US’s ability to respond quickly to global events in the status quo.</span>**
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 12, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">3.1 SOCOM Capability Gaps </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">3.1.1 Functional Concept Component The primary functional component deficiency that this CONOPS addresses is a projection that given current trends, USSOCOM will lack an Expeditionary Attribute of tempo dominance in the future. In coming years there will exist a gap between SOF's real-time, speed-of-light awareness of details regarding unfolding global contingencies and their actual ability to respond relevantly and effectively to said contingencies. From the standpoints of relative tempo, operational security (OPSEC), and geographic proximity, SOF teams will become less rapidly deployable, employable, and sustainable throughout the global battlespace relative to the tempo of adversary actions. Anti-access and area-denial environments combined with longer range and more lethal adversary weapons will compound this relatively slowed responsiveness. SOCOM elements will not be capable of rapid deployment and immediate employment, or be capable of seamlessly handing off to conventional forces for sustained operations as a crisis or conflict develops. 3.1.2 Operational Mission and Function Deficiencies While the speed of terrestrial and national security space Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities is keeping pace with the accelerated tempo of localized events in the modem world, the ability of SOF teams to physically respond (troops on the ground) at any global locality is not. If this deficiency is not resolved, SOCOM will become increasingly less capable of appearing on the scene to respond relevantly and effectively to exploit strategic opportunities or minimize strategic damage at the earliest stages of a contingency. To illustrate the deficiencies, the following functions that are essential for SOF in order that the military objectives of the JFC and/or the NCA are achieved, increasingly cannot be performed without unacceptable limitations. 3.1.2.1 Mobility and Maneuver A deficiency exists with respect to SOCOM's ability to deliver tailored SOF teams to any terrestrial point globally in order to act on current intelligence. Instead, SOF insertion options are limited by speed, range, signature, and vulnerability of evolutionary aerospace, land and undersea insertion technologies, as well as the vulnerability of expeditionary delivery platforms. The highest speed of global SOCOM insertion from CON US is limited to that of jet aircraft arriving within the constraints of in-flight refueling, foreign airspace over-flight restrictions, non permissive air-defense environments, and the possible absence of suitable airfields. It should be noted that airspace sovereignty is commonly accepted as extending to an altitude of 50 miles above the surface of the earth. Similarly, the highest speed of global surface SOP movement is limited to that of ships, boats, assault amphibians, hovercraft, wheeled and tracked land vehicles, and combat swimmers, all significantly slower than terrestrial aviation platforms. Other constraints include underway replenishment, 12-mile littoral coastal sovereignty, emergent antiship threats, and known challenges of overland movement in restrictive or non-peimissive land combat environments. 3.1.2.2 Firepower The weapons that will threaten independently operating SOF in the 21st Century will continue to advance in terms of range, speed, and lethality. The pace of the advancements in adversary tactical, offensive anti-air, land, and surface threat capabilities has been greater than the pace of the U.S.'s capability to counter them with improvements to protection and conventional kinetic weapons technologies alone. Revolutionary weapons capabilities are needed to preserve assault support insertion of SOP as a viable course of</span><span class="Underline"> action for the JFC.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Frequency and tempo of crises are increasing and speed is becoming more important</span>**. **SUSTAIN is key.**
**Williams, ‘7** – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]
One could easily argue that … this concept throughout this paper.

SUSTAIN works logistically
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 10, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">2 4 Support and Sustainment Concepts (DOTMLPF)</span>
<span class="Underline">Doctrine. The SUSTAIN capability </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">is necessarily designed around what is known today of basic Warfighter organization at the SOF team. The small unit as defined in SUSTAIN is 12-14 personnel for specific reasons. It is the size of the team element that is basic to USSOCOM. 12-14 combat personnel is approximately the traditional design parameter for tactical assault support platforms, whether they were surface ground, water, transport helicopter, or tilt-rotor aircraft. This unit size has even been employed as the stick parameter used for combat gliders, a platform that was conceptually a functional forerunner of` SUSTAIN. The assumption is that the enduring utility of the squad-team sized unit as the smallest viable combat element will continue to be its capability to conduct limited independent operations, especially within the Special Operations Command (SOCOM) construct. Furthermore, the technology-enabled warfighting capacity of` small units will increase. Organization. A SUSTAIN Family of Assault Support Capabilities (SUSTAIN FASC) is envisioned as a revolutionary follow-on to evolutionary air, land, and sea assault support, even if` only as a complimentary capability. Once SUSTAIN has matured in the SOCOM operating environment, the physical SUSTAIN capability could be fielded and manned in quantities similar to Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAV) Battalions or Assault Support Squadrons. Logistics, Command and Control (C2) and fire support capabilities variants would be fielded and organized in appropriately complementary numbers. Principles of attachment, cross-attachment, direct support, and general support would apply as they do for other assault support and tire support platforms. SUSTAIN Composite Squadrons are conceivable. Under a Space Force or Space Service the SUSTAIN capability, matured in operations by USSOCOM, could expand to have</span><span class="Underline"> broad general utility.</span>


Launch systems have already been developed – minimal further investment required
**Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9** [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [[http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]]]
__This quantity of development …__ rockets and for orbital launchers 7,8,9.

1AC – terror
SUSTAIN is key to fight terrorism– interception of high value targets, reconnaissance, PSYOPS, and foreign stabilization
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 21, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">United States Special </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">Operations Command's (USSOCOM) is the principle intended user of the SUSTAIN capability. In fact, the inspiration behind the SUSTAIN concept originally emerged from an evident capability gap, namely the limitations of terrestrial air-speeds and the need for overflight rights that have hampered SOCOM missions in the past. Specifically, the inability to rapidly insert specialized teams into Afghanistan from the U.S, within hours of the events of 9/ 11 may have caused strategic opportunities to be missed. In an effort to fill that gap, SUSTAIN is primarily intended to support of SOCOM's core missions related to rapidly intercepting unsecured Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), globally, as well as conducting hot pursuit of high value strategic targets during the hours of vulnerability that they are exposed. The Title l() Service-specific gaps that can be materially fulfilled with a SUSTAIN capability will overwhelmingly be executed through Service Components that contribute to the USSOCOM organization. In consideration of the SUSTAIN-relevant operational needs that have been expressed to date this pertains to Air Force and Marine Corps in the form of AFSOC and MARSOC. However, other Service organizations will also benefit from SUSTAIN for the purpose of transporting and inserting small specialized teams globally. Specific beneficiaries include Air Force Security Forces (AFSF), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR), the Marine Corps Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company (ANGLICO), and Special Operations Capable Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUSOC). It is envisioned that these non-SOCOM sourced capabilities would be employed in conjunction with or governed entirely by SOCOM as specialized attachments to SOCOM units in support of SOCOM missions. What follows is a discussion of the various SOCOM and Service core missions that SUSTAIN would enable: 4.1 U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Core Missions USSOQOM plans, directs and executes special operations in conduct of the War on Terrorism in order to disrupt, defeat, and destroy terrorist networks that threaten the United States, its citizens and interests worldwide. USSOCOM organizes, trains, and equips Special Operations Forces provided to Geographic Combatant Commanders, American Ambassadors and their Country Teams. ln order to accomplish its Combatant Command mission, USSOCOM has been assigned the following core tasks: Counterterrorism (CT), Counter-proliferation (CP), of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Special Reconnaissance (SR), Direct Action (DA), Unconventional Warfare (UW), Information Operation (l 0), Psychological Operations (PSYOP), Foreign internal Defense (FID), and Civil Affairs Operations (CAO). The relation of the SUSTAIN capability to each is detailed below: 4.1.1 Counterterrorism (CT) CT is SOCOM's number one mission. CT produces effective protective measures to reduce the probability of a successful terrorist attack against U.S. interests. This task involves offensive measures taken to prevent, deter, preempt, and respond to terorism. SOF are specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct covert, clandestine, or discreet CT mission in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments. These missions include, but are not limited to intelligence operations, attacks against terrorist networks and infrastructures, hostage rescue, recovery of sensitive material from terrorist organizations, and non-kinetic activities aimed at the ideologies or motivations that spawn terrorism. SUSTAIN offers SOP the heretofore nonexistent option for the earliest unopposed insertion of tailored CT teams around the globe. 4.1.2 Counter Proliferation (CP) of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) CP refers to actions taken to support DoD and other govemmental agencies to prevent, limit and/or minimize the development, possession, and employment of weapons of mass destruction, new advanced weapons, and advanced-weapon-capable technologies. The major objectives of DOD policy are to prevent acquisition of WM D and missile capabilities (i.e. preventive defense), roll back proliferation where it has occurred, deter the use of WMD and their delivery systems, and adapt U.S. military forces and planning to operate against the threats posed by WMD and their delivery systems. SOP provides unique capabilities to monitor and support DOD policy. SUSTAIN offers SOF the heretofore non-existent option for the earliest interception of WMD when a fleeting opportunity presents itself. 4.1.3 Special Reconnaissance (SR) This is reconnaissance and surveillance actions conducted as special operations in hostile, denied or politically sensitive environments to collect or verify information of strategic or operational significance, employing military capabilities not normally found in conventional forces. These actions provide an additive capability for commanders and may supplement other intelligence collection when conventional reconnaissance and surveillance actions are limited by weather, terrain, or adversary countermeasures. SUSTAIN may be the only alternative for the insertion of SR for missions of strategic importance where time, distance, and overflight challenges are severe. 4.1.4 Direct Action (DA) DA is the conduct of short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as a special operation in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments to seize, destroy, care, exploit, recover, or damage designated targets of strategic or operational significance, employing specialized military capabilities. Direct action differs from conventional offensive actions in the level of physical and political risk, operational techniques, and the use of discriminating force to achieve specific objectives. SUSTAIN offers the DA mission the elements of speed, surprise and shock. The DA mission will also benefit from the vehicle's organic capabilities. In addition to an organic advanced combined arms weapons suite, the SUSTAIN vehicle(s) will possess a C4 suite that is fully integrated with and actively contributing to the global common operating picture. This includes SUSTAIN ability to facilitate a seamless broad spectrum of secure communications for coordinating requested fires from outside the theater with the team's plans for extraction. This will also permit coordination between the Joint Force Commander and higher, adjacent and subordinate elements throughout the battlespace and globally. 4.1.5 Unconventional Warfare (UW) UW involves a broad spectrum of military and paramilitary operations, normally of a long duration. UW is predominantly conducted by, with, or through indigenous or sunogate forces that are organized, trained, equipped, supported, and directed in varying degrees by an external source. UW includes guerrilla warfare and other direct offensive, low-visibility, covert, or clandestine operations, as well as the indirect activities of subversion, sabotage, intelligence activities, and unconventional assisted recovery. SUSTAIN can serve as a speedy long-range insertion capability for teams when time is short. 4.1.6 Information Operations (IO) These are actions taken to influence, affect or defend information, information systems and decision-making. SUSTAIN will have the operational capacity to assist the SOCOM detachment to the Joint Force Commander in the achievement of IO objectives. The SUSTAIN IO capability-set will include Electronic Warfare (EW), Computer Network Operations, Psychological Operations (PSYOPS), Operations Security (OPSEC), and Military Deception. The IO potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.7 Psychological Operations (PSYOP) PSYOPS are planned operations to convey truthful information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and ultimately, the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and individuals. The purpose of PSYOP is to induce or reinforce foreign attitudes and behaviors favorable to the originator's objectives. Similarly to IO, the PSYOPS potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.8 Foreign Internal Defense (FID) FLD is one of SOCOM's primary peacetime missions. lt is designed to help friendly developing nations by working with their military and police forces to improve their technical skills, understanding of human rights issues, and to help with humanitarian and civic action projects. Special Forces unconventional warfare capabilities provide a viable military option for a variety of operational taskings that are inappropriate or infeasible for conventional forces. Special Forces are the U.S. military's premier unconventional warfare force. Participation by civilian or military agencies of a government in any of the action programs taken by another government or other designated organization to free their society from subversion, lawlessness, and insurgency. SOF's primary contribution to this interagency activity is to organize, train, advise, and assist host-nation (HN) military and paramilitary forces. The goal is to enable these forces to maintain the HN's intemal stability, to counter subversion and violence in their country, and to address the causes of instability. Early SUSTAIN-enabled insertion of FID teams can be critical in a time of crisis, especially when HN civil authority is breaking down. 4.1.9 Civil Affairs Operations (CAO) CAO constitutes operations consisting of civil affairs (CA) activities and specialized support provided to commanders responsible for conducting civil military operations (CMO). CA activities involve establishing and conducting military government or civil administration until civilian authority or government can be restored or transitioned to other appropriate authorities. CA supports CMO by focusing efforts to minimize civilian interference with military operations and limit the adverse impact of military operations on civilian</span><span class="Underline"> populations and resources.</span>



Terrorists are fanatics – new terrorism will be apocalyptic not political
Walter **Laqueur, ‘3** – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study; holocaust survivor [No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books]
It was only to be … on society could become reality.

Scenario 1:
Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome
<span class="Heading2Char">Bunn et al May, 2011</span> (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf]])
__Nuclear terrorism is a real and … is as strong as ever.__


Any nuclear terrorism will cause extinction
**Toon et al 7** – Owen B. Toon, chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at CU-Boulder, et al., April 19, 2007, “Atmospheric effects and societal consequences of regional scale nuclear conflicts and acts of individual nuclear terrorism,” online: [[http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/acp-7-1973-2007.pdf]]
To an increasing extent, __people …__ present scenarios and physical outcomes.

SECOND-
Recent technology advances make bioterror likely
**Garrett, 12/15**/11 [Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Heard the Sirens Scream: How Americans Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks. “The Bioterrorist Next Door”. [[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0]]]
In September, __an amiable Dutchman__ … of high-security biological laboratories?

Causes extinction – defense doesn’t apply
**Kellman 8** (Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center, “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat”, The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf)
A looming danger confronts the … **__dire consequences for all humanity.__**

Any WMD terrorist attack results in nuclear great power war
**Ayson 10,** Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—__a … still meet with a devastating response.__

1AC – crisis management
The plan is key to it
First, early military response
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 5, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">The expeditionary nature </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">of Joint SOP will allow for tailorable force packages capable of conducting operations in countries and regions of interest anywhere in the world. These tailorable force packages will provide COCOMS with a highly responsive and adaptable instrument to influence operations or resolve crises. With respect to responsiveness SUSTAIN provides a leap-ahead improvement over traditional aerospace transport for those teams. SOCOM teams organize, train and equip specifically for operations globally. Yet, absent the preexisting forward deployment of teams, transport of teams and capabilities is limited to terrestrial air, land, sea, and undersea vehicle speeds. New concepts for aircraft carrier and amphibious shipping Sea Bases expand SOCOM basing options, offering political leaders increased freedom of action; however land-locked areas of operation and overflight restrictions still present SOF insertion constraints. The SUSTAIN capability provides SOF teams in support of the Joint Force Commander (JFC) or national command Authority (NCA) the capacity to be rapidly transported to any point on the globe, effectively instantaneously. The objective SUSTAIN capability spans the full spectrum of Special Forces (SF) employment, to include a wide range of manned and unmanned payloads. A fundamental advantage of a SUSTAIN capability with global reach stems from its inherent operational mobility, or more precisely its operational agility. Specifically, it provides the highspeed transport necessary to rapidly move credible specialized forces to remote locations with precision. Furthermore, it provides this capability within minutes and hours of execution orders as opposed to days associated with conventional terrestrial transportation. Equally suitable for operations from land-based airfields, space ports, SUSTAIN vehicle-capable carrier ships, or military space stations, SUSTAIN provides the Joint Force Commander (J FC) virtually unlimited basing options for Special Forces (SF) team insertion and extraction. SUSTAIN will constitute the first family of multi-mission military aerospace vehicles to include a man-rated space vehicle in the SOCOM tool kit. It will blend the versatility of tactical assault support aircraft with the revolutionary speed and global reach that can only be achieved with a suborbital or orbital space craft. SUSTAIN is planned as a combined arms compliment to conventional all-terrestrial aircraft capabilities such as the CV-22, C-130, and the other fixed and rotary wing aircraft in the SOCOM inventory. SUSTAIN is a high leverage capability that will greatly expand JESOF and national options in an age where timely response to crises in their infancy can mitigate the need for an escalation of hostilities at an</span><span class="Underline"> increased national cost.</span>


Second, diplomatic management
**Space Transportation Tech**nology **Roadmap, ’10** – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]]
4.3.4 __Other Government Space Transportation … certainly be of similar significance__.

Third, quick victories
**Space Transportation Tech**nology **Roadmap, ’10** – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, [[http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]]]
4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify … __it well worth the investment.__


American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression
**Gerson, ‘9** – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]
This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.

Global military reach is key to contain aggressors and manage power transitions – prevents global nuclear war**[deters nuclear aggression by rising states like China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, and India, contains a Pakistani state collapse, and prevents European, South American, and Middle Eastern war – global escalation over Indo-Pacific trade routes is likely]**
**Major Munson, ’11** – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]
A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.

Crises go nuclear
Stephen J. **Blank**, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and **Ph.D**. in History from the University of Chicago, March **2009**. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”
Proliferators or __nuclear states like__ __…__ __neighbors or their own people__.172

There are infinite root causes of violence, only deterrence solves
<span class="Underline">**Moore, 04** </span>Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law<span class="Underline"> (John Norton Moore**, “**Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 41-43) </span>
<span class="Underline">If major interstate war is … gamble not worth the risk.</span>

American power solves poverty, violence, and extinction
Thomas P.M. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Barnett,</span> Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, 3-7-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2011</span>, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads
It is worth first examining … the Pacific Century now unfolding.


===1AC Ohio Valley=== 
Same as the glenbrooks 1AC but
Nanoterror scenario and O'Hanlon card removed, this one added:
<span class="Underline"> Terrorists will successfully attack nuclear power plants across the globe – causes meltdowns and kills the nuclear industry</span>
<span class="Underline">Kimery 11 – Homeland Security Today's senior reporter and online editor (Anthony, W. Scott Malone, multiple Emmy and Peabody award-winning investigative journalist and former senior editor of NavySEALs.com. He runs the website's counterterrorism newsletter spin-off, “BlackNET Intelligence Channel,” 05/12, “Al Qaeda Could Try to Replicate Fukushima-type Meltdowns,” http://www.hstoday.us/blogs/the-kimery-report/blog/al-qaeda-could-try-to-replicate-fukushima-type-meltdowns/aa96292934d83bb8c9f97fd9d685f32b.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A May 5 "intelligence brief" prepared … failure within a matter of hours …”</span>

<span class="Underline">Meltdowns cause extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Lendman 11 – Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Stephen, 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan)</span>

<span class="Underline">Reuters said the 1995 Kobe quake … could be, literally, an apocalyptic event.</span>

<span class="Underline">A litany of environmental impacts are inevitable absent nuclear power</span>
<span class="Underline">Cohen 99 – Professor-Emeritus of Physics and Astronomy and of Environmental and Occupational Health at University of Pittsburgh. He has authored 6 books, over 300 papers in scientific journals, and about 75 articles in non-technical journals. He has presented invited lectures in 47 U.S. States, 6 Canadian provinces, 7 Japanese prefectures, 6 Australian states and territories, and 24 other countries in Europe, Asia and South America. His awards include the American Physical Society Bonner Prize, the Health Physics Society Distinguished Scientific Achievement Award. He has been elected Chairman of the Division of Nuclear Physics of the American Physical Society, and Chairman of the Division of Environmental Sciences of the American Nuclear Society (Bernard L., “The nuclear Power Advantage,” http://www.praphansarn.com/new/forum/forum_posts.asp?TID=14313&get=last)</span>

<span class="Underline">One important advantage of nuclear … as much as one percent.</span>

<span class="Underline">Agriculture collapse and food insecurity threaten survival</span>
<span class="Underline">FAO 8 (Food and Agricultural Organization ,2/18, Biodiversity is vital for human survival and livelihoods, http://www.fao.org/newsroom/en/news/2008/1000788/index.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Biodiversity is vital for human … future generations,” Mr Butler said.</span>

<span class="Underline">Collapse of genetic diversity leads to extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Cary Fowler and Pat Mooney, Rural Advancement Fund International, Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity, 1990, p. ix</span>

<span class="Underline">While many may ponder the … Africa, Latin America and Asia.</span>


===1AC Glenbrooks - new solvency and plan=== 
<span class="Underline"> The United States federal government should develop orbital capsules for Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities, incorporating the Scorpius launch system. </span>

<span class="Underline">For solvency, we took out the tech feasibility card and added:</span>

<span class="Underline"> Orbital capsules make SUSTAIN cheap and feasible</span>
<span class="Underline">Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline"> For SUSTAIN, a man-carrying … costs spread between several programs. </span>


<span class="Underline"> Launch systems have already been developed – minimal further investment required</span>
<span class="Underline">Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline"> This quantity of development funding … for orbital launchers 7,8,9.</span>

Everything else is the same as the John's Creek 1AC

===1AC SUSTAIN John's Creek=== 
PLAN
The United States federal government should employ Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities.
1AC – SOLVENCY
Contention 1: solvency

Frequency and tempo of crises are increasing but there are multiple barriers to effective military response
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 12, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline"> 3.1 SOCOM Capability Gaps </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">3.1.1 Functional Concept Component The primary functional component deficiency that this CONOPS addresses is a projection that given current trends, USSOCOM will lack an Expeditionary Attribute of tempo dominance in the future. In coming years there will exist a gap between SOF's real-time, speed-of-light awareness of details regarding unfolding global contingencies and their actual ability to respond relevantly and effectively to said contingencies. From the standpoints of relative tempo, operational security (OPSEC), and geographic proximity, SOF teams will become less rapidly deployable, employable, and sustainable throughout the global battlespace relative to the tempo of adversary actions. Anti-access and area-denial environments combined with longer range and more lethal adversary weapons will compound this relatively slowed responsiveness. SOCOM elements will not be capable of rapid deployment and immediate employment, or be capable of seamlessly handing off to conventional forces for sustained operations as a crisis or conflict develops. 3.1.2 Operational Mission and Function Deficiencies While the speed of terrestrial and national security space Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities is keeping pace with the accelerated tempo of localized events in the modem world, the ability of SOF teams to physically respond (troops on the ground) at any global locality is not. If this deficiency is not resolved, SOCOM will become increasingly less capable of appearing on the scene to respond relevantly and effectively to exploit strategic opportunities or minimize strategic damage at the earliest stages of a contingency. To illustrate the deficiencies, the following functions that are essential for SOF in order that the military objectives of the JFC and/or the NCA are achieved, increasingly cannot be performed without unacceptable limitations. 3.1.2.1 Mobility and Maneuver A deficiency exists with respect to SOCOM's ability to deliver tailored SOF teams to any terrestrial point globally in order to act on current intelligence. Instead, SOF insertion options are limited by speed, range, signature, and vulnerability of evolutionary aerospace, land and undersea insertion technologies, as well as the vulnerability of expeditionary delivery platforms. The highest speed of global SOCOM insertion from CON US is limited to that of jet aircraft arriving within the constraints of in-flight refueling, foreign airspace over-flight restrictions, non permissive air-defense environments, and the possible absence of suitable airfields. It should be noted that airspace sovereignty is commonly accepted as extending to an altitude of 50 miles above the surface of the earth. Similarly, the highest speed of global surface SOP movement is limited to that of ships, boats, assault amphibians, hovercraft, wheeled and tracked land vehicles, and combat swimmers, all significantly slower than terrestrial aviation platforms. Other constraints include underway replenishment, 12-mile littoral coastal sovereignty, emergent antiship threats, and known challenges of overland movement in restrictive or non-peimissive land combat environments. 3.1.2.2 Firepower The weapons that will threaten independently operating SOF in the 21st Century will continue to advance in terms of range, speed, and lethality. The pace of the advancements in adversary tactical, offensive anti-air, land, and surface threat capabilities has been greater than the pace of the U.S.'s capability to counter them with improvements to protection and conventional kinetic weapons technologies alone. Revolutionary weapons capabilities are needed to preserve assault support insertion of SOP as a viable course of</span><span class="Underline"> action for the JFC.</span>
s


Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion, or SUSTAIN, is key to kill terrorists and project power
Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
One could easily argue that … this concept throughout this paper.

<span class="Underline">SUSTAIN works logistically </span>
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 10, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">2 4 Support and Sustainment Concepts (DOTMLPF)</span>
<span class="Underline">Doctrine. The SUSTAIN capability </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">is necessarily designed around what is known today of basic Warfighter organization at the SOF team. The small unit as defined in SUSTAIN is 12-14 personnel for specific reasons. It is the size of the team element that is basic to USSOCOM. 12-14 combat personnel is approximately the traditional design parameter for tactical assault support platforms, whether they were surface ground, water, transport helicopter, or tilt-rotor aircraft. This unit size has even been employed as the stick parameter used for combat gliders, a platform that was conceptually a functional forerunner of` SUSTAIN. The assumption is that the enduring utility of the squad-team sized unit as the smallest viable combat element will continue to be its capability to conduct limited independent operations, especially within the Special Operations Command (SOCOM) construct. Furthermore, the technology-enabled warfighting capacity of` small units will increase. Organization. A SUSTAIN Family of Assault Support Capabilities (SUSTAIN FASC) is envisioned as a revolutionary follow-on to evolutionary air, land, and sea assault support, even if` only as a complimentary capability. Once SUSTAIN has matured in the SOCOM operating environment, the physical SUSTAIN capability could be fielded and manned in quantities similar to Amphibious Assault Vehicle (AAV) Battalions or Assault Support Squadrons. Logistics, Command and Control (C2) and fire support capabilities variants would be fielded and organized in appropriately complementary numbers. Principles of attachment, cross-attachment, direct support, and general support would apply as they do for other assault support and tire support platforms. SUSTAIN Composite Squadrons are conceivable. Under a Space Force or Space Service the SUSTAIN capability, matured in operations by USSOCOM, could expand to have</span><span class="Underline"> broad general utility.</span>


The psychological impact alone is massive
Hilburn, 6 [Matt, associate editor of the Navy League of the United States. Cites Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines. February. http://www.navyleague.org/sea_power/feb06-28.php]
The psychological impact of having … enough to send people scrambling.”


Technology exists – a unified effort is key
Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
Like most advanced capabilities, space … of expertise, and share cost


It’s feasible, government is key
Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]
 4.2.7.3.1 Industry and Government stakeholders … space transportation criteria noted earlier


1AC – TERROR
Contention 2: terrorism
<span class="Underline">SUSTAIN is key to fight terrorism– interception of high value targets, reconnaissance, PSYOPS, and foreign stabilization</span>
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 21, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">United States Special </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">Operations Command's (USSOCOM) is the principle intended user of the SUSTAIN capability. In fact, the inspiration behind the SUSTAIN concept originally emerged from an evident capability gap, namely the limitations of terrestrial air-speeds and the need for overflight rights that have hampered SOCOM missions in the past. Specifically, the inability to rapidly insert specialized teams into Afghanistan from the U.S, within hours of the events of 9/ 11 may have caused strategic opportunities to be missed. In an effort to fill that gap, SUSTAIN is primarily intended to support of SOCOM's core missions related to rapidly intercepting unsecured Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), globally, as well as conducting hot pursuit of high value strategic targets during the hours of vulnerability that they are exposed. The Title l() Service-specific gaps that can be materially fulfilled with a SUSTAIN capability will overwhelmingly be executed through Service Components that contribute to the USSOCOM organization. In consideration of the SUSTAIN-relevant operational needs that have been expressed to date this pertains to Air Force and Marine Corps in the form of AFSOC and MARSOC. However, other Service organizations will also benefit from SUSTAIN for the purpose of transporting and inserting small specialized teams globally. Specific beneficiaries include Air Force Security Forces (AFSF), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR), the Marine Corps Air Naval Gunfire Liaison Company (ANGLICO), and Special Operations Capable Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUSOC). It is envisioned that these non-SOCOM sourced capabilities would be employed in conjunction with or governed entirely by SOCOM as specialized attachments to SOCOM units in support of SOCOM missions. What follows is a discussion of the various SOCOM and Service core missions that SUSTAIN would enable: 4.1 U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Core Missions USSOQOM plans, directs and executes special operations in conduct of the War on Terrorism in order to disrupt, defeat, and destroy terrorist networks that threaten the United States, its citizens and interests worldwide. USSOCOM organizes, trains, and equips Special Operations Forces provided to Geographic Combatant Commanders, American Ambassadors and their Country Teams. ln order to accomplish its Combatant Command mission, USSOCOM has been assigned the following core tasks: Counterterrorism (CT), Counter-proliferation (CP), of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), Special Reconnaissance (SR), Direct Action (DA), Unconventional Warfare (UW), Information Operation (l 0), Psychological Operations (PSYOP), Foreign internal Defense (FID), and Civil Affairs Operations (CAO). The relation of the SUSTAIN capability to each is detailed below: 4.1.1 Counterterrorism (CT) CT is SOCOM's number one mission. CT produces effective protective measures to reduce the probability of a successful terrorist attack against U.S. interests. This task involves offensive measures taken to prevent, deter, preempt, and respond to terorism. SOF are specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct covert, clandestine, or discreet CT mission in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments. These missions include, but are not limited to intelligence operations, attacks against terrorist networks and infrastructures, hostage rescue, recovery of sensitive material from terrorist organizations, and non-kinetic activities aimed at the ideologies or motivations that spawn terrorism. SUSTAIN offers SOP the heretofore nonexistent option for the earliest unopposed insertion of tailored CT teams around the globe. 4.1.2 Counter Proliferation (CP) of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) CP refers to actions taken to support DoD and other govemmental agencies to prevent, limit and/or minimize the development, possession, and employment of weapons of mass destruction, new advanced weapons, and advanced-weapon-capable technologies. The major objectives of DOD policy are to prevent acquisition of WM D and missile capabilities (i.e. preventive defense), roll back proliferation where it has occurred, deter the use of WMD and their delivery systems, and adapt U.S. military forces and planning to operate against the threats posed by WMD and their delivery systems. SOP provides unique capabilities to monitor and support DOD policy. SUSTAIN offers SOF the heretofore non-existent option for the earliest interception of WMD when a fleeting opportunity presents itself. 4.1.3 Special Reconnaissance (SR) This is reconnaissance and surveillance actions conducted as special operations in hostile, denied or politically sensitive environments to collect or verify information of strategic or operational significance, employing military capabilities not normally found in conventional forces. These actions provide an additive capability for commanders and may supplement other intelligence collection when conventional reconnaissance and surveillance actions are limited by weather, terrain, or adversary countermeasures. SUSTAIN may be the only alternative for the insertion of SR for missions of strategic importance where time, distance, and overflight challenges are severe. 4.1.4 Direct Action (DA) DA is the conduct of short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as a special operation in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments to seize, destroy, care, exploit, recover, or damage designated targets of strategic or operational significance, employing specialized military capabilities. Direct action differs from conventional offensive actions in the level of physical and political risk, operational techniques, and the use of discriminating force to achieve specific objectives. SUSTAIN offers the DA mission the elements of speed, surprise and shock. The DA mission will also benefit from the vehicle's organic capabilities. In addition to an organic advanced combined arms weapons suite, the SUSTAIN vehicle(s) will possess a C4 suite that is fully integrated with and actively contributing to the global common operating picture. This includes SUSTAIN ability to facilitate a seamless broad spectrum of secure communications for coordinating requested fires from outside the theater with the team's plans for extraction. This will also permit coordination between the Joint Force Commander and higher, adjacent and subordinate elements throughout the battlespace and globally. 4.1.5 Unconventional Warfare (UW) UW involves a broad spectrum of military and paramilitary operations, normally of a long duration. UW is predominantly conducted by, with, or through indigenous or sunogate forces that are organized, trained, equipped, supported, and directed in varying degrees by an external source. UW includes guerrilla warfare and other direct offensive, low-visibility, covert, or clandestine operations, as well as the indirect activities of subversion, sabotage, intelligence activities, and unconventional assisted recovery. SUSTAIN can serve as a speedy long-range insertion capability for teams when time is short. 4.1.6 Information Operations (IO) These are actions taken to influence, affect or defend information, information systems and decision-making. SUSTAIN will have the operational capacity to assist the SOCOM detachment to the Joint Force Commander in the achievement of IO objectives. The SUSTAIN IO capability-set will include Electronic Warfare (EW), Computer Network Operations, Psychological Operations (PSYOPS), Operations Security (OPSEC), and Military Deception. The IO potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.7 Psychological Operations (PSYOP) PSYOPS are planned operations to convey truthful information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective reasoning, and ultimately, the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and individuals. The purpose of PSYOP is to induce or reinforce foreign attitudes and behaviors favorable to the originator's objectives. Similarly to IO, the PSYOPS potential of the SUSTAIN capability is significant in terms of the earliest global appearance of relevant teams and capabilities. 4.1.8 Foreign Internal Defense (FID) FLD is one of SOCOM's primary peacetime missions. lt is designed to help friendly developing nations by working with their military and police forces to improve their technical skills, understanding of human rights issues, and to help with humanitarian and civic action projects. Special Forces unconventional warfare capabilities provide a viable military option for a variety of operational taskings that are inappropriate or infeasible for conventional forces. Special Forces are the U.S. military's premier unconventional warfare force. Participation by civilian or military agencies of a government in any of the action programs taken by another government or other designated organization to free their society from subversion, lawlessness, and insurgency. SOF's primary contribution to this interagency activity is to organize, train, advise, and assist host-nation (HN) military and paramilitary forces. The goal is to enable these forces to maintain the HN's intemal stability, to counter subversion and violence in their country, and to address the causes of instability. Early SUSTAIN-enabled insertion of FID teams can be critical in a time of crisis, especially when HN civil authority is breaking down. 4.1.9 Civil Affairs Operations (CAO) CAO constitutes operations consisting of civil affairs (CA) activities and specialized support provided to commanders responsible for conducting civil military operations (CMO). CA activities involve establishing and conducting military government or civil administration until civilian authority or government can be restored or transitioned to other appropriate authorities. CA supports CMO by focusing efforts to minimize civilian interference with military operations and limit the adverse impact of military operations on civilian</span><span class="Underline"> populations and resources.</span>


Violence is getting cheaper. Terrorists will use nuclear and biological weapons.
Krepenivich, president of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 8/15/11. [“Get Ready for the Democratization of Destruction”. Foreign Policy. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/get_ready_for_the_democratization_of_destruction?page=0,1]
As Niels Bohr famously observed, "… as the "democratization of destruction."

Terrorists are fanatics – new terrorism will be apocalyptic not political
Walter Laqueur, ‘3 – historian, has taught at Brandeis University, Georgetown, Harvard, University of Chicago, Tel Aviv and John Hopkins university; expert in terrorism and one of the founders of its study [No end to war: terrorism in the twenty-first century. Google Books]
It was only to be … on society could become reality.

Prefer our Laqueur evidence – it’s from the world’s greatest terrorism expert
Bruce Hoffman, August 2011 – Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, Director of the Security Studies Program, and a tenured professor at Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service; has been studying terrorism for over thirty years [“In Celebration of Walter Laqueur's 90th Birthday: Reflections on His Contributions to the Study of Terrorism and Guerrilla Warfare”. Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, 34:9, 667-671. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1057610X.2011.594942]
Scholars today researching and writing … are likely ever to meet.


Demographics and technology will increase the power and number of small violent groups – includes nano-terrorism
O’Hanlon, ’11 [Michael, director of research and senior fellow @ Brookings, Ph.D. from Princeton in public and international affairs. “The National Security Industrial Base: A Crucial Asset of the United States, Whose Future May Be in Jeopardy”. February. http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2011/02_defense_ohanlon/02_defense_ohanlon.pdf]
As one looks into the … be used somewhere probably grows. 25

Nanoterror causes extinction
Bostrom, ‘2 [ Nick Bostrom, Professor, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University. Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, No. 1 (2002). http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]
In a mature form, molecular nanotechnology … was predicted but occurred nevertheless.


Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome
Bunn et al May, 2011 (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf)
Nuclear terrorism is a real and … is as strong as ever.



A WMD attack results in nuclear great power war
Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—a … still meet with a devastating response.

Bioterror likely – overwhelms defenses
Graham & Talent 10 - Chair & Vice Chair of Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism [Bob Graham & Jim Talent, “Hearing on the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2010,” U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, April 21, 2010, pg. http://www.heritage.org/Research/Testimony/Hearing-on-the-Weapons-of-Mass-Destruction-Prevention-and-Preparedness-Act-of-2010]
In 2009, the Commission was authorized … the public's trust in government.


Bioterror outweighs the disads
Clifford Singer, Spring 2001. Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.

In recent years the fear … and if this is achieved.


1AC – CRISIS MANAGEMENT
Contention 3: crisis management

American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression
Gerson, ‘9 – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]
This article seeks to expand … for conventional aggression and coercion.

Global nuclear war [deters nuclear aggression by rising states like China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, and India, contains a Pakistani state collapse, and prevents European, South American, and Middle Eastern war – global escalation over Indo-Pacific trade routes is likely]
Major Munson, ’11 – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]
A decade of war has … same place, wherever that may be.

Crises will result in nuclear war
Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”
Proliferators or nuclear states like … neighbors or their own people.172

SUSTAIN’s early military intervention is key to successful de-escalation
Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 5, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)
The expeditionary nature of Joint … at an increased national cost.

<span class="Underline"> SUSTAIN’s early military intervention is key to successful de-escalation</span>
<span class="Underline">Concept of Operations for the Small Unit Space Transport and Insertion (SUSTAIN) Capability, ‘8 (pp 5, http://www.docstoc.com/docs/20263477/Concept-of-Operations-for-the-Small-Unit-Space-Transport)</span>
<span class="Underline">The expeditionary nature </span><span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">of Joint SOP will allow for tailorable force packages capable of conducting operations in countries and regions of interest anywhere in the world. These tailorable force packages will provide COCOMS with a highly responsive and adaptable instrument to influence operations or resolve crises. With respect to responsiveness SUSTAIN provides a leap-ahead improvement over traditional aerospace transport for those teams. SOCOM teams organize, train and equip specifically for operations globally. Yet, absent the preexisting forward deployment of teams, transport of teams and capabilities is limited to terrestrial air, land, sea, and undersea vehicle speeds. New concepts for aircraft carrier and amphibious shipping Sea Bases expand SOCOM basing options, offering political leaders increased freedom of action; however land-locked areas of operation and overflight restrictions still present SOF insertion constraints. The SUSTAIN capability provides SOF teams in support of the Joint Force Commander (JFC) or national command Authority (NCA) the capacity to be rapidly transported to any point on the globe, effectively instantaneously. The objective SUSTAIN capability spans the full spectrum of Special Forces (SF) employment, to include a wide range of manned and unmanned payloads. A fundamental advantage of a SUSTAIN capability with global reach stems from its inherent operational mobility, or more precisely its operational agility. Specifically, it provides the highspeed transport necessary to rapidly move credible specialized forces to remote locations with precision. Furthermore, it provides this capability within minutes and hours of execution orders as opposed to days associated with conventional terrestrial transportation. Equally suitable for operations from land-based airfields, space ports, SUSTAIN vehicle-capable carrier ships, or military space stations, SUSTAIN provides the Joint Force Commander (J FC) virtually unlimited basing options for Special Forces (SF) team insertion and extraction. SUSTAIN will constitute the first family of multi-mission military aerospace vehicles to include a man-rated space vehicle in the SOCOM tool kit. It will blend the versatility of tactical assault support aircraft with the revolutionary speed and global reach that can only be achieved with a suborbital or orbital space craft. SUSTAIN is planned as a combined arms compliment to conventional all-terrestrial aircraft capabilities such as the CV-22, C-130, and the other fixed and rotary wing aircraft in the SOCOM inventory. SUSTAIN is a high leverage capability that will greatly expand JESOF and national options in an age where timely response to crises in their infancy can mitigate the need for an escalation of hostilities at an</span><span class="Underline"> increased national cost.</span>


SUSTAIN would revolutionize warfare and provide a decisive edge – wargaming proves
Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf]
4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify … it well worth the investment.








===SUSTAIN Wake Quarters=== 
<span class="Underline"> plan</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should employ Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion capabilities.</span>
<span class="Underline">1AC – terrorism</span>
<span class="Underline">Mass destructive and access-denial systems are proliferating. Makes conventional power projection impossible and biological and nuclear weapons use likely.</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepenivich, president of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 8/15/11. [“Get Ready for the Democratization of Destruction”. Foreign Policy. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/get_ready_for_the_democratization_of_destruction?page=0,1]</span>
As Niels Bohr famously observed, "Prediction is /…of small groups, a phenomenon that might be characterized as the "democratization of destruction."

<span class="Underline">Terrorism increasing</span>
<span class="Underline">Huffington Post 8/3/11 (Terrorism Risk Index 2011: Somalia Tops Global Ranking By Maplecroft (PHOTOS), http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/08/03/terrorism-risk-index-2011_n_917225.html?view=print&comm_ref=false)</span>
<span class="Underline">LONDON, Aug 3 (Reuters) - Somalia is most at risk …not led to a short-term fall in militancy.</span>

<span class="Underline">Demographics and technology will increase the power and number of small violent groups – includes nano-terrorism</span>
<span class="Underline">O’Hanlon, ’11 [Michael, director of research and senior fellow @ Brookings, Ph.D. from Princeton in public and international affairs. “The National Security Industrial Base: A Crucial Asset of the United States, Whose Future May Be in Jeopardy”. February. http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2011/02_defense_ohanlon/02_defense_ohanlon.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">As one looks into the future, any such list will evolve… one or more nuclear weapons will be used somewhere probably grows. 25 </span>

<span class="Underline">Nanoterror causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Bostrom, ‘2 [ Nick Bostrom, Professor, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University. Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, No. 1 (2002). http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">In a mature form, molecular nanotechnology will enable …predicted but occurred nevertheless. </span>


<span class="Underline">Nuclear terrorism is coming- all obstacles can be overcome</span>
<span class="Underline">Bunn et al May, 2011 (The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism, Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Colonel Yuri Morozov Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy. Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Nuclear terrorism is a real and urgent threat…..indicate that the intention to acquire and use nuclear weapons is as strong as ever. </span>

<span class="Underline">Escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China.</span>
<span class="Underline">Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span class="Underline">But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack…would probably still meet with a devastating response.</span>

<span class="Underline">Bioterror likely by 2013</span>
<span class="Underline">Graham & Talent 10 - Chair & Vice Chair of Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism [Bob Graham & Jim Talent, “Hearing on the Weapons of Mass Destruction Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2010,” U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, April 21, 2010, pg. http://www.heritage.org/Research/Testimony/Hearing-on-the-Weapons-of-Mass-Destruction-Prevention-and-Preparedness-Act-of-2010]</span>
<span class="Underline">In 2009, the Commission was authorized for an additional …derive from the incident's direct impact on our way of life and the public's trust in government.</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Matheny 07 – Research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute @ Oxford University [Jason G. Matheny (PhD candidate in Applied Economics and Master’s in Public Health at Johns Hopkins University), “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis. Volume 27, Number 5, 2007, pg. http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html] </span>

<span class="Underline">Of current extinction risks, the most severe may… biological agents and emerging diseases, and strengthen the capacities of local health systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

<span class="Underline">Instant engagement is key to solve terrorism</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">Wherever America's ground troops engage in Iraq, they perform magnificently…for Soldiers to get into position and engage their targets.</span>


<span class="Underline">1AC – deterrence</span>
<span class="Underline">American rapid response capabilities are crucial to credibly deter aggression</span>
<span class="Underline">Gerson, ‘9 – Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">This article seeks to expand the current debate about the role and utility of ….nuclear possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.</span>

<span class="Underline">Greater marine global access is key to manage the current power transition – every hotspot is at risk [deters nuclear aggression by rising states like China, Russia, North Korea, Iran, and India, contains a Pakistani state collapse, and prevents European, South American, and Middle Eastern war ]</span>
<span class="Underline">Major Munson, ’11 – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span class="Underline">A decade of war has focused Marines’ minds on insurgency, culture, and the /…, if less capable, amphibious threats. </span>

<span class="Underline">he continues</span>
<span class="Underline">Major Munson, ’11 – Peter J., Marine aviator and Middle East foreign area officer, having served most recently as Officer in Charge, Detachment A, Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom; author of Iraq in Transition [“ Back to Our Roots: Marines’ future in the Indo-Pacific”. January. Marine Corps Gazette. http://www.mca-marines.org/gazette/back-to-our-roots]</span>
<span class="Underline">Conclusion Whatever our vision of the future, it must be founded concretely ….all be going to the same place, wherever that may be.</span>

<span class="Underline">Statistical evidence shows power transitions explain 80% of war occurrence </span>
<span class="Underline">Efird, Kugler, and Genna 03 member of the Sentia Group --- and --- Professor of IR at Claremont Graduate U – and --- Prof of political science at Winona State University</span>
<span class="Underline">(Brian, Jacek, and Gaspare, FROM WAR TO INTEGRATION: GENERALIZING POWERTRANSITION THEORY, International Interactions, 29:293–313, 2003</span>

<span class="Underline">Since our interest is in developing a closer description of the dynamic process ….acceptant since they have more to gain from a reordering of the status quo (Kugler and Zagare, 1990).</span>


<span class="Underline">Impact is nuclear war and crises</span>
<span class="Underline">Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?” </span>
<span class="Underline">Proliferators or nuclear states like China and Russia can ….on their neighbors or their own people.172</span>

<span class="Underline">These wars go global</span>
<span class="Underline">Bosco, 2006 [David, 7/23/2006. Senior Editor at Foreign Policy Magazine. “Could This Be the Start of World War III?” http://usc.glo.org/forums/0016/viewtopic.php?p=403&sid=95896c43b66ffa28f9932774a408bb4b] </span>
<span class="Underline">ARMAGEDDON Could This Be the Start of World War III? ….to conjure ways that today's hot spots could ignite. Consider the following scenarios: </span>

<span class="Underline">Specifically, Chinese aggression causes regional nuclear war and draws in the US </span>
<span class="Underline">Weitz 2011 – Asia-Pacific strategic and security issues columnist for The Diplomat, director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis and a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (1/11, Richard, The Diplomat, “The US keeps hedging over China”, http://the-diplomat.com/2011/01/11/why-us-keeps-hedging-over-china/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Yet these policies should be seen less as an effort to contain China and …China from even attempting to turn to force to resolve the region’s numerous territorial disputes.</span>

<span class="Underline">US-China war risks World War III</span>
<span class="Underline">Starke 09 – Colonel in the US Army [Colonel Timothy J. Starke, “China’s Military and Space Transformation: Implications for U.S. and Northeast-Asia,” Strategy Research Project, 24-03-2009, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA500675&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">Prospects of violent conflict between the United States and …2007 antisatellite missile launch,3 fuel U.S. mistrust of China’s true intentions. Pg. 1</span>


<span class="Underline">Failure to rapidly intervene when Pakistan collapses causes nuclear great power escalation</span>
<span class="Underline">Pitt, 9- a New York Times writer and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) </span>
<span class="Underline">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives …appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>

<span class="Underline">Unchecked European competition causes nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer 01 Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago (John, “The Future of the American Pacifier”, Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct, p 46)</span>
<span class="Underline">FIVE EUROPEAN STATES now have sufficient wealth and population to qualify as ….these actions as hostile and respond with measures of its own.</span>

<span class="Underline">The plan is independently key to diplomatic responses necessary to crisis deescalation</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">4.3.4 Other Government Space Transportation Needs o 4.3.4.1 State /…the strategic value of such meetings could certainly be of similar significance. </span>
<span class="Underline">1AC – solvency</span>
<span class="Underline">Threats are emerging rapidly and unpredictably but forward basing is no longer reliable. Small Unit Space Transportation and Insertion, or SUSTAIN, is key to marine strength, winning the war on terror, and overall military effectiveness.</span>
<span class="Underline">Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">One could easily argue that the stated USMC space mobility requirement begs the ….achieve the desired effects. The reader will see this concept throughout this paper.</span>

<span class="Underline">The psychological impact alone is massive</span>
<span class="Underline">Hilburn, 6 [Matt, associate editor of the Navy League of the United States. Cites Roosevelt Lafontant, a former Marine lieutenant colonel now employed by the Schafer Corporation, a military-technology consulting firm working with the Marines. February. http://www.navyleague.org/sea_power/feb06-28.php]</span>
<span class="Underline">The psychological impact of having such ….would be enough to send people scrambling.”</span>

<span class="Underline">SUSTAIN would revolutionize warfare and provide a decisive edge – wargaming proves</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">4.2.4.28.1 In order to justify the cost of a revolutionary military ….to be costly, the savings resulting from crises averted should make it well worth the investment. </span>


<span class="Underline">Technology exists – a unified effort is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Like most advanced capabilities, space transportation requires ….-constrained environment, the nation needs to coordinate its efforts, capitalize on areas of expertise, and share cost</span>
==2AC blocks== 
===2AC security=== 
<span class="Underline">We usually read some but not all of these cards.</span>

<span class="Underline">The K is a non-falsifiable conspiracy theory. Its ontological assumptions are unrealistic and contrived. No descriptive or normative value.</span>
<span class="Underline">Jones and Smith, June 2011 (David Martin, Senior Lecturer, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia, M.L.R., Department of War Studies, King's College, University of London, London, United Kingdom, “Terrorology and Methodology: A Reply to Dixit and Stump,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 34, issue 6) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">In our original review we particularly took issue with the belief, held by a number of contributors to Critical Studies on Terrorism, and reflected in British and Australian university programs, that conventional terrorism research deliberately conspires both to de-legitimize the critical voice and marginalize the non-Western “other.” In this regard, we found that critical theory engages in sweeping generalizations about the Western media presentation of terrorism and assumes or cherry picks facts to demonstrate political bias and a predetermined state conspiracy. Such a critical worldview again unconsciously mirrors the weakness of traditional terror studies during the Cold War, where writers like Claire Sterling in The Terror Network detected the hidden-hand of the Soviet Union behind every significant violent sub-state actor of the time. As we stated in our review, conventional and critical approaches often seem two sides of the same debased coin. More generally, the soi disant critical orientation of Critical Studies on Terrorism embraces the uncritical assumption that Western democracies have engaged in a conspiracy to demonize resistance by third world and particularly Muslim non-state actors. The critical approach thus places the assumption of the questionable and malign motivation of democratic governments (that nevertheless, and somewhat ironically, support the critical research agenda through the grant giving machinery) above conceptual precision and hypothesis testing. In the process, critical thinking problematically imports the paranoid outer reaches of the blogosphere into academia, thus legitimizing the conspiracies of hidden-hands, sinister schemes, malign forces, secret agendas, and controlling systems of power purveyed on websites like Spinwatch and Neocon Europe. In this context, Dixit and Stump's proposal to advance critical inquiry by “de-naturalizing the state” is less than helpful, not least because it merely reinforces the obsessive suspicion of the state that defines critical terrorology's worldview. In particular, Dixit and Stump's suggestion is based on the reductionist claim by Weldes, Laffey, Gusterson and Duvall that the whole field of “security studies” (an ill-defined subject area at the best of times) is predicated on immutable state threats. Consequently: Actors and their insecurities are naturalized in the sense that they are treated as facts that, because they are given by the nature of the interstate system, can be taken for granted. Taken as natural facts, states and other organized actors become the foundational objects the taken-for-granted of which serves to ground security studies.3 The proposed “de-naturalizing” of the state rests on this flimsy criticism of security studies, which raises more questions than it answers. What, we might ask, does “de-naturalizing” the state really mean? Taken to its logical conclusion it implies that we cannot discuss states as social facts. Nor can a de-naturalized perspective accept that the international system is primarily composed of states that express themselves through collective identities and interests and give material form to these through institutions and symbols that range from flags and anthems to national airlines and armed forces. From the constructivist ontology that Dixit and Stump embrace it appears that because there are no social facts that are not socially constituted there can be no such thing as facts at all. But if states cannot at a minimum be construed as social facts with histories and interests then how, we might wonder, can we begin to study their actions? In their subsequent discussion of terrorism as practice, the world Dixit and Stump inhabit is comprised purely of discourses and practices. Even a state's terror strategy, from this perspective, erroneously assumes an “objectively existing phenomenon.”4 Extending the process of de-naturalization, moreover, leads to some bizarre and nihilistic conclusions. The logic of constructivism would entail “de-naturalizing” not just the state, but all social arrangements, and any human organization, from nationalities, governments, and sub-state actors, to universities, academic journals, language and the constitution of the self itself. Ultimately, such “de-naturalization” undermines the foundations of social inquiry. All human institutions, from the state downwards, rest on assumptions and practices that are socially and historically constituted. All institutions and social structures can therefore be deconstructed.5 Fundamentally, there is nothing particularly novel about this insight that in fact began with the ancient Greek distinction between nomos and physis.6 Yet, if a program of inquiry simply regards constitutive processes as the only thing worth studying, then all phenomena collapse back into language, which robs everything, including constructivism itself, of meaning. As the Australian philosopher John Anderson observed of this style of thinking, it functions “as a substitute at once for philosophy and for a real theory of language.”7 The point is, as we argued in our review, that to achieve a genuine understanding we must either investigate the facts that are talked about or study the fact that they are talked about in a certain way. If we concentrate on the uses of language we are in danger of taking our discoveries about manners of speaking as answers to questions about what is there. This path leads not to any meaningful insight, but to the paradoxes of idealism Jorge Luis Borges explored in his Ficciones. In Borges's short story “Tln, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius,” the metaphysicians of the imaginary world of Tln (or the world conceived by constructivism) do not seek “for the truth, or even for verisimilitude,”8 which they consider devoid of interest, but instead pursue a “kind of amazement.”9 For, ultimately, if human agents are themselves, as Dale Copeland notes, merely “puppets of the ideational system in which they find themselves” then “each would exist as a socially conditioned 'Me', without the free-willed 'I' capable of resisting the socialization process.”10 Such a condition of linguistic mutability, in fact, undermines any transformative possibility for the international system, or indeed anything else. Yet, ironically, this is the very thing constructivists and critical theorists want to show is possible. Furthermore, if Dixit and Stump do not accept the logic of their constructivism, which abandons academic engagement for the path of Tlnist astonishment, then they must assert, somewhat arbitrarily, that we should de-naturalize the state, yet leave all other social institutions in their “natural” state. Such a method only frames the debate in a way that favors a set of ideological preferences, which inevitably prejudices the outcome of any inquiry by determining that all problems are the fault of the state and its insidious systems of exclusion. Dixit and Stump's proposed de-naturalization of the state, therefore, fails any adequate standard of hypothesis testing. Put simply, you cannot “de-naturalize” the one thing you might object to in the current political system, but leave all other practices and social arrangements, including the constitutive positions you occupy, naturalized as if you existed in Olympian detachment. As we pointed out in our review, at best this position is intellectually incoherent, and at worst hypocritical. We exemplified this point in our initial review with reference to Ken Booth's contradictory assertion that critical theorists must recognize that they inhabit a world constituted by powerful ideological systems, yet must themselves “stand outside” those systems.11 Such schemes repeat the Marxian fallacy of false consciousness, asserting that everyone, apart from the critically initiated, has their understanding distorted by the ideology in dominance. Critical theory apparently endows its disciples with the unique capacity to “stand outside” these systems of dominance and see through the othering processes of the state. Meanwhile, those trapped in the quotidian reality of the state have no access to this higher insight. Booth's article in Critical Studies on Terrorism shows where this style of thinking leads: to the conviction that the followers of critical theory alone can transcend the mundane and the political. </span>

<span class="Underline"> American power is inevitable. Intervention is a viable way to reduce violence. The plan splits the difference between violent realism and utopian nonsense.</span>
<span class="Underline">Elshtain ‘7 (Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Politics Ethics – U. Chicago, and Chair in Foundations of American Freedom – Georgetown U., Studies in Christian Ethics, “Against the New Utopianism”, 20:1, Ebsco)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">Neo-Kantianism, of whatever stripe, is rather a far cry from arguments some of us have mounted that aspires to a world of 'minimally decent states' and a commitment to the principle of 'equal moral regard' for human beings. This 'equal moral regard' sounds rather Kantian, to be sure, but it is not an absolute principle in practice — it is an aspiration. One appreciates the tragedy that on this earth even good and decent principles cannot be wholly realised. Surprisingly, even this rather more modest call for minimally decent states — and the assumption that such states will in one way or another likely be democratic — is taxed with a disguised form of moral imperialism, with ethnocentrism, and the encouragement of the use of force. I suspect this has happened because 'the new internationalists', myself included, point out that American constitutional principles constitute universal claims, not particular ones, and that these universal claims, e.g. 'all persons are created equal', really means all persons. As everyone knows, much of the domestic history of American political life involves contestation to achieve in practice the universalism embedded in the American experiment in principle. Further, I and others argue that there is no way around American power. The question is whether, on balance, it is used for good or ill. For the new Utopians, American power is often the problem and in the wilder forms of European anti-Americanism, America functions as the repository of all that is disgusting, crass, wicked, manipulative, etc. in the world. The mere existence of American power somehow stifles and strangles the rest of the world — on and on in this vein. For example, Anthony Burke claims that the new internationalism traffics in 'fear-soaked rhetoric', and labels the war against Saddam's republic of fear an 'unimaginable break' with international norms; Abu Ghraib is construed as the norm rather than an aberration (which makes criminal prosecution of the perpetrators rather inexplicable — if indeed their disgusting display was the norm we would give them medals, not indict them); the idea of state sovereignty is blasted as 'violent and exclusivist ... lingering like a latent illness in the very depths of modern cosmopolitanism'.* The metaphor of disease is fascinating here. But who are the physicians to heal the international order? For Kant they are the moral philosophers. For Burke and so many others, it is a fantasy United Nations — quite unlike the one we actually have — and international law, universally accepted and endorsed and enforced -although their arguments are often rather thin concerning how just these laws are to be enforced and by whom. Given that the United Nations today is composed of delegates who lopsidedly represent undemocratic and corrupt regimes, this strikes me as a not terribly helpful argument. Moreover, why should an International Court of Justice dominated by Europeans be any more 'universal' than claims launched by a democratic state premised on universal propositions? In sum, the Kantian vision relies on a dualistic contrast between 'perpetual peace' and 'perpetual war' that is a chimera. The new Utopians ignore or downplay moral and political ambiguity and nuance, the smudginess of real human lives and history. Those of us who believe the universe is not 'heal-able' (if there is such a word) are often taxed with being imperialists if we express the hope that American power can help to stabilise and provide order in international affairs and, at the same time, defeatists precisely because we — or at least I — share St Augustine's conviction that on this earth it will remain impossible to perfectly reconcile human wills. Pace the critics, this is not a counsel of defeatism at all; rather, it represents hope by contrast to optimism. Hope that the world can be made less brutal and less unjust, and this means more respect for human rights and more democratic forms insofar as democracy involves respect for persons qua persons. Saying this does not dictate any particular form of government save that no one is born to be a slave, to be tormented, or to be slaughtered because of who he or she is — whether American or Israeli or Palestinian, whether Jew or Christian or Muslim, whether male or female. The new neo-Kantian universalism — or new utopianism — is a mixture of un-tethered idealism, hoping for the triumph of good will and a world in which international bodies supplant states, international law supersedes multiple civic laws, and there is at some point a definitive abandonment of the use of force in international affairs. For us 'new internationalists' — if we accept the designation and I am not wild about it — we find the real challenge to our position not so much from the new Utopians — I believe their arguments can be rather readily answered — but from serious classical realists who set the bar lower, insisting that the best we can do is to forestall the worst and not hope for some good. There is great wisdom in this posture — forestalling the worst is no small achievement — but, contrary to some interpreters of Augustine, I believe there is also warrant for a measure of hopefulness within his arguments concerning political life and order.</span>

<span class="Underline"> Anarchy makes great power competition inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer 2001 [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, Kindle location 213]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">Alas, the claim that security competition and war between the great powers have been purged from the international system is wrong. Indeed, there is much evidence that the promise of everlasting peace among the great powers was stillborn. Consider, for example, that even though the Soviet threat has disappeared, the United States still maintains about one hundred thousand troops in Europe and roughly the same number in Northeast Asia. It does so because it recognizes that dangerous rivalries would probably emerge among the major powers in these regions if U.S. troops were withdrawn. Moreover, almost every European state, including the United Kingdom and France, still harbors deep-seated, albeit muted, fears that a Germany unchecked by American power might behave aggressively; fear of Japan in Northeast Asia is probably even more profound, and it is certainly more frequently expressed. Finally, the possibility of a clash between China and the United States over Taiwan is hardly remote. This is not to say that such a war is likely, but the possibility reminds us that the threat of great-power war has not disappeared. The sad fact is that international politics has always been a ruthless and dangerous business, and it is likely to remain that way. Although the intensity of their competition waxes and wanes, great powers fear each other and always compete with each other for power. The overriding goal of each state is to maximize its share of world power, which means gaining power at the expense of other states. But great powers do not merely strive to be the strongest of all the great powers, although that is a welcome outcome. Their ultimate aim is to be the hegemon—that is, the only great power in the system. There are no status quo powers in the international system, save for the occasional hegemon that wants to maintain its dominating position over potential rivals. Great powers are rarely content with the current distribution of power; on the contrary, they face a constant incentive to change it in their favor. They almost always have revisionist intentions, and they will use force to alter the balance of power if they think it can be done at a reasonable price.3 At times, the costs and risks of trying to shift the balance of power are too great, forcing great powers to wait for more favorable circumstances. But the desire for more power does not go away, unless a state achieves the ultimate goal of hegemony. Since no state is likely to achieve global hegemony, however, the world is condemned to perpetual great-power competition. This unrelenting pursuit of power means that great powers are inclined to look for opportunities to alter the distribution of world power in their favor. They will seize these opportunities if they have the necessary capability. Simply put, great powers are primed for offense. But not only does a great power seek to gain power at the expense of other states, it also tries to thwart rivals bent on gaining power at its expense. Thus, a great power will defend the balance of power when looming change favors another state, and it will try to undermine the balance when the direction of change is in its own favor. Why do great powers behave this way? My answer is that the structure of the international system forces states which seek only to be secure nonetheless to act aggressively toward each other. Three features of the international system combine to cause states to fear one another: 1) the absence of a central authority that sits above states and can protect them from each other, 2) the fact that states always have some offensive military capability, and 3) the fact that states can never be certain about other states’ intentions. Given this fear—which can never be wholly eliminated—states recognize that the more powerful they are relative to their rivals, the better their chances of survival. Indeed, the best guarantee of survival is to be a hegemon, because no other state can seriously threaten such a mighty power.</span>

<span class="Underline"> Realism is inevitable and true – tribalism structures politics</span>
<span class="Underline">Sterling-Folker, ‘9 – Jennifer, associate professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Connecticut (Neoclassical Realism, the State, and Foreign policy, pp 109. Edited by Steven E Lobell, Norrin M Ripsman, Jeffery W Talliaferro (professors of poli sci). )</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">The neoclassical realism of this chapter starts with the observation, confirmed in the work of realist scholars such as Robert Gilpin, Jonathan Mercer, Randall Schweller, and David Priess, as well as chapter 1 of this volume, that realism’s core analytical unit is not the individual, nor the state, but human collectives as a broad category.21 Realism assumes that human beings are social animals who naturally form groups, and, as constructivists have argued, groups shape and bind individuals together via distinct social practices, institutions, and common identities. Individual identity is only realized through a process of collective social construction, which involves making self– other distinctions. As Franke Wilmer notes, identity is a “paradoxical beginning,” because it “is constituted by referring the bounded self to something else, something with which the self is either identified (as the same) or from which it is different.”22 Hence collective identity formation always entails the creation of in-group/out-group distinctions that have implications for external relations as well as for internal politics and competitions. The fact that human beings are naturally social, and hence predisposed to form groups, has implications for both politics within groups as well as how groups interact with one another. The neoclassical realism to which I subscribe obviously starts from a bio-political foundation, because it explicitly adopts particular human nature assumptions which it argues are transhistorical. The particular assumptions that it adopts do not involve power lust or aggression, however; rather I concur with Yosef Lapid that there is a more foundational realist “tradition that subscribes to an ontology of conflictual group fragmentation,” which leads to a central “problematique (survival/war).”23 In a sense, then, neoclassical realism represents the return to a realist insight largely lost in the structural rush to neorealism: tribalism is a fact of human existence. But it subsequently moves from there to a realist-constructivist position in which group identity, social practices, and intergroup interaction become paramount to explanation an</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">d understanding, within very broad boundaries set by the sociability of the species itself. These boundaries are the stuff of traditional realist analysis. Because human beings will always form groups, there will always be intergroup competition, a concern with relative power, and a tendency to imitate one another’s social practices. Hence realist structural patterns are an essential starting point for analysis. </span>
<span class="Underline"> 9. Benign US and norms solve the impact</span>
<span class="Underline">Elshtain, ’11 [Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Pol. Ethics – U. Chicago. “Reply”. International Relations, March 2011, 25. http://ire.sagepub.com/content/25/1/135.citation]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">Finally, I do praise American principles, for these reflect high norms of human moral equality and political freedom; they are the benchmark against which the US measures itself internally. But I do not argue for a role for the US under the rubric of the responsibility to protect because of our alleged moral superiority. What is at stake is justice – and the possibility of minimally decent states. Certainly one would rather have states committed to principles of freedom and moral equality taking responsibility than states that spit on such ideas: states, it should be noted, far less likely to respond to ‘humanitarian catastrophes’, in any case. In recounting the horrors of the Taliban regime, I observed the difference between the principles and the practices of constitutional orders and the rampant disorder of Taliban misrule. Does the international community have no responsibility at all in these situations – when regimes violate human rights egregiously, systematically, with impunity? When such states sponsor terrorism, the road to responsibility is more clearly laid out. But what of other situations? Do we stand by and do nothing? What can we do? What ought we to do? If human rights mean anything – and I sometimes think they mean very little when the crunch comes – they require some modest enforcement. Law without enforcement is not law at all. Can some undertake that enforcement at the behest of others or at their own behest under norms of international justice? These are questions I raised in my book and have articulated at length in several essays. Given that, it does not strike me as quite fair to conclude, as Zehfuss does, that I favor ‘imperial violence’ in the end. The word ‘violence’ is excessively provocative, as I suspect Zehfuss realizes. It is a matter of the justifiable use of force, not violence, and this means force controlled and limited under in bello norms. </span>

<span class="Underline">10. Opening up space for new ways of knowing won't affect international violence</span>
<span class="Underline">O'Callaghan, lecturer in IR, 02 (Terry , lecturer in the school of International Relations at the University of South Australia, International Relations and the third debate, ed: Jarvis, 2002, p. 80-81)</span>
<span style="font-size: 4px;">There are also a host of technological and logistical questions that plague George's scheme and make problematic his recommendations. For example, through what medium are those on the fringes of the international system going to speak to the world? Although it may be true that the third world has now been integrated into the global polity via the advent of technological innovations in communications, allowing for remote access to information sources and the Internet, it also remains true that the majority of those on the fringes continue to be disenfranchised from such mediums, whether as a result of a lack of economic resources, the prevalence of illiteracy, or social, cultural and political circumstances that systemically exclude, women (among others) from economic resources and certain political and social freedoms. Need we remind George that social, political, and individual autonomy is at a minimum in these parts of the world, and an intellectual approach as controversial as postmodernism is not likely to achieve the sorts of goals that George optimistically foreshadows. Indeed, on practical questions such as these, matters otherwise central to the success of postmodern visions, George prefers to be vague, suggesting instead that the intricacies of such details will somehow work themselves out in a manner satisfactory to all. Such a position reveals George's latent idealism and underscores how George's schema is an intellectual one: a theory of international politics written for other theorists of international politics. George's audience is thus a very limited and elite audience and begs the question of whether a senior, middle-class scholar in the intellectual heartland of Australia can do anything of real substance to aid the truly marginalized and oppressed. How is it possible to put oneself in the shoes of the "other," to advocate on his or her behalf, when such is done from a position of affluence, unrelated to and far removed from the experiences of those whom George otherwise champions? Ideals are all good and well, but it is hard to imagine that the computer keyboard is mightier than the sword, and hard to see how a small, elite, affluent assortment of intellectuals is going to generate the type of political momentum necessary to allow those on the fringes to speak and be heard! 1 . Moreover, why should we assume that states and individuals want to listen and will listen to what the marginalized and the oppressed have to say? There is precious little evidence to suggest that "listening" is something the advanced capitalist countries do very well at all. Indeed, one of the allegations so forcefully alleged by Muslim fundamentalists as justification for the terrorist attacks of September I I is precisely that the West, and America in particular, are deaf to the disenfranchised and impoverished in the world. Certainly, there are agencies and individuals who are sensitive to the needs of the "marginalized" and who champion institutional forums where indigenous voices can be heard. But on even the most optimistic reckoning, such forums and institutions represent the exception, not the rule, and remain in the minority if not dwarfed by those institutions that represent Western, first world interests. To be sure, this is a realist power-political image of the current configuration of the global polity, but one apparently, and ironically, endorsed by George if only because it speaks to the realities of the marginalized, the imposed silences, and the multitude of oppressions on which George founds his call for a postmodern ethic. Recognizing such realities, however, does not explain George's penchant for ignoring them entirely, especially in terms of the structural rigidities they pose for meaningful reform. Indeed, George's desire to move to a new "space beyond International Relations" smacks of wishful idealism, ignoring the current configuration of global political relations and power distribution; of the incessant ideological power of hyperindividualism, consumerism, advertising, Hollywood images, and fashion icons; and of the innate power bestowed on the (institutional) barons of global finance, trade, and transnational production. George seems to have little appreciation of the structural impediments such institutions pose for radical change of the type he so fiercely advocates. Revolutionary change of the kind desired by George ignores that fact that many individuals are not disposed to concerns beyond their family, friends, and daily work lives. And institutional, structural transformation requires organized effort, mass popular support, and dogged single-mindedness if societal norms are to be challenged, institutional reform enacted, consumer tastes altered, and political sensibilities reformed. Convincing Nike that there is something intrinsically wrong with paying Indonesian workers a few dollars a week to manufacture shoes for the global market requires considerably more effort than postmodern platitudes and/or moral indignation. The cycle of wealth creation and distribution that sees Michael Jordan receive multimillion dollar contracts to inspire demand for Nike products, while the foot soldiers in the factory eke out a meager existence producing these same products is not easily, or realistically, challenged by pronouncements of moving beyond International Relations to a new, nicer, gentler nirvana. More generally, of course, what George fails to consider is the problem of apathy and of how we get people to care about the plight of others. What do we with the CEOs of multinational corporations, stockbrokers, accountants, ctory workers, and the unemployed, who, by and large, fail to consider the omeless and destitute in their own countries, let alone in places they have never isited and are never likely to visit? Moral indignation rarely translates into action, and apathy about the plight of others is a structural impediment as strong any idea, theory, or writing. What George's treatise thus fails to consider is how we overcome this, and how we get others to listen. He needs to explain how the social, political, psychological, and moral structures that define the parameters of existence for the many millions of ordinary citizens in the first world, and that deflects attention from the marginalized and the oppressed can be broken down. Unfortunately, there is little to indicate that George has thought much about this, suggesting that his commitment to postmodern theory is not likely to make much difference. In fact, in the academy the postmodern light is already beginning to dim in certain quarters, having registered scarcely a glimmer in the broader polity, where, if change was to ensue, it needed to burn brightly. Even among those versed in the nomenclature of scholarly debate, theorists of international politics remain skeptical of the value of postmodern discourse, by and large rejecting it. This does not portend well for postmodern visionaries and the future of postmodern discourse. But can George really be surprised by this? After all, his discourse indicts the "backward discipline" for complicity in crimes against humanity, calling for a repudiation of realism and with it a repudiation of the lifelong beliefs and writings of eminent theorists like Kenneth Waltz, Robert Gilpin, and Stephen Krasner who have otherwise defined the parameters of the discipline, its projects, and research agendas. Can George really expect discipline-wide capitulation to an intellectual diaspora that would see theorists repudiate their beliefs and works in order to take up the creed of postmodernism, as vague, open-ended, and indeterminate as it is? Without a clear and credible plan of how to get from "incarceration and closure" to intellectual freedom, creativity, and openness, George's postmodern musings have understandably attracted few disciples. </span>
=== === 
===2AC security - terrorism=== 
<span class="Underline"> Distinguishing legitimate violence from terrorism prevents moral nihilism.</span>
<span class="Underline">Elshtain ‘3 (Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Pol. Ethics – U. Chicago, “Just War Against Terror: The Burden of American Power in a Violent World”, p. 19-20)</span>
<span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">In a situation in which noncombatants are deliberately targeted and the murder of the maximum number of noncombatants is the explicit aim, using terms like "fighter" or "soldier" or "noble warrior" is not only beside the point but pernicious. Such language collapses the distance between those who plant bombs in cafes or fly civilian aircraft into office buildings and those who fight other combatants, taking the risks attendant upon military forms of fighting. There is a nihilistic edge to terrorism: It aims to destroy, most often in the service of wild and utopian goals that make no sense at all in the usual political ways. The distinction between terrorism, domestic criminality, and what we might call "normal" or "legitimate" war is vital to observe. It helps us to assess what is happening when force is used. This distinction, marked in historic moral and political discourses about war and in the norms of international law, seems lost on those who call the attacks of September 11 acts of "mass murder" rather than terrorism and an act of war under international law, and who go on to claim that the United States has also engaged in "mass murder" in its legally authorized counteroffensive that removed the Taliban and disrupted the Al Qaeda network and its terrorist training camps in Afghanistan. This argument perpetrates a moral equivalence that amounts to the "pile of garbage" that Stephen Carter noted. 15 If we could not distinguish between an accidental death resulting from a car accident and an intentional murder, our criminal justice system would fall apart. And if we cannot distinguish the killing of combatants from the intended targeting of peaceable civilians and the deliberate and indiscriminate sowing of terror among civilians, we live in a world of moral nihilism. In such a world, everything reduces to the same shade of gray and we cannot make distinctions that help us take our political and moral bearings. The victims of September 11 deserve more from us.</span>

<span class="Underline"> American intervention is legitimate. Contrary claims exaggerate civilian casualties and ignore intentionality.</span>
<span class="Underline">Elshtain, ’11 [Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Pol. Ethics – U. Chicago. “Reply”. International Relations, March 2011, 25. http://ire.sagepub.com/content/25/1/135.citation]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">I would remind us once again of the context in which I wrote, one I articulated in my response to Dr O’Driscoll. I refer to a context in which there is general international consensus on a given horror, e.g. the Taliban regime, not even recognized as legitimate by the overwhelming majority of the world’s states. With reference to Afghanistan, I should hate to think that I suggest anything of the sort Professor Zehfuss taxes me with, namely, that it is ‘all right to kill a few Afghanis as they are anyway in the habit of killing each other at a much higher rate’. That is not my point. I was responding to wildly overinflated figures of civilian casualties as ‘proof positive’ that the US was somehow ‘worse’ than the Taliban, and to that end I garnered the best available data – not wild extrapolations from a few cases – in order to get the most accurate approximate reckoning of unintended civilian casualties. I cited sources that indicated that, in light of the full-scale military conflict under way, this figure, or these figures, were far below what had pertained in prior situations – and I assume the reference point is the Soviet–Afghani confl ict. So my claim had nothing to do with some notion that primitive Afghanis like to kill one another, so why worry about a few deaths. The real gravamen of Zehfuss’s case has to do with tragedy, intentionality, and the enormous difference I note between action undertaken with the intent to murder as many non-combatants, as many civilians, as possible – a 9/11 in which noncombatants are the target – and, by contrast, those situations in which civilians are not being targeted; everything possible is being done not to harm them; but some civilian casualties occur anyway. You simply cannot ‘do’ just war without observing this distinction: it is critical and a standard feature of the historic just war argument. This is not so mysterious. Intentionality is central to how we assess moral goods and harms in everyday life and in the law. An example I give is finding a body on the ground: someone lies dead on the pathway. How did he get there? Did he stumble, fall, and hit his head on a rock, in which case no one intentionally killed him? Although possibly there may be some measure of culpability if the owner of the garden where the path is found provided poor lighting (let us assume it was night) and did not clear the pathway of obstructions. If, by contrast, the victim and another person had an argument and the other person gave the victim a push, the victim stumbled, fell, and was killed as a result of the fall, we assess a higher level of culpability: manslaughter, some form of unintended killing. If, however, we turn the victim over and there is a knife stuck in his heart, we are dealing with murder and full culpability comes into view. As I said: not so mysterious and fundamental to any rule of law. Should I intentionally aim to kill as many non-combatants as possible I am culpable in a way that those who try to stop me from doing that, and wind up harming civilians unintentionally in the process, are not. The US is not blowing up mosques and markets and schools in Iraq. The US is not using children as human shields and blowing the children to smithereens as they trigger a bomb in the car in which the children have been passengers – after the adults have abandoned the vehicle. The US military brings to trial soldiers who commit crimes because these soldiers have violated rules of engagement in some egregious way by not taking suffi cient care to avoid harm to civilians or, even worse, intentionally harming civilians. Obviously there are always questions to be asked when civilians are harmed: was this the only way to get at the enemy? Was all care taken? Were the stakes so high that the risk of collateral damage was acceptable? This, it seems to me, is pretty straightforward. Not so straightforward is the matter of tragedy: ‘every civilian death is a tragedy’, I say, yes, but not every civilian death is a culpable crime, an intentional murder. In my book, I also take to task those who called 9/11 a tragedy, as if the events of that day were akin to a flood or an earthquake, and there was no human agency involved. Somehow this horrible thing just happened. There are, of course, tragedies wrought by nature in the absence of intentionality. Some terrible events are beyond human responsibility: some are and some are not. In JWAT, I clearly assign culpability: this happened. Who is responsible? What is an appropriate response to this act of war? This by contrast to calling such events a tragedy tethered to no assigning of responsibility. Tragedy goes much beyond the meaning proffered by Terry Eagleton and cited by Zehfuss, namely, that it means something ‘very sad’. Far more than that, for the sadness must be accounted for: we can be sad about a roaring fl ood that claims lives but we are both sad and mad about human actions that knowingly set out to take lives and succeed. Every unintended civilian death is a tragedy, yes. Every intentional slaughter of civilians is a crime – as well as being tragic. It is not the case that one dead body equals another. There could be no coherent rule of law were this true. Missteps when all care was taken are one thing; carelessness yet another (when more care could have been taken); aiming to maximize civilian deaths another. It is important, at all times, to keep alive the tragic dimension of war, even when justifiable, and that is why unintended civilian deaths are tragic. This does not mean, perforce, that a war has become illegitimate. If a military fighting a justified war routinely violates the rule of discrimination in the just war tradition (discriminating between civilians and combatants), this violation of jus in bello, should it be ‘normalized’, must at some point, it seems to me, raise questions about justifiability over all. But, to repeat: it is not the US slaughtering civilians in Iraq. That the US is responsible for a certain number of civilian casualties, as unintended victims of war, is certainly true. But as Prime Minister Blair and many others have argued repeatedly – in the UK, I would refer to the online journal Democratiya for further elaboration on such themes – it is the so-called ‘insurgency’ that is intentionally murdering civilians, as many as possible. It is grotesque for anyone to blame the US or Great Britain for that mordant fact. (Professor Zehfuss does not do this, let me hasten to add, but responding to her gave me an opportunity to make this point.) </span>

===2AC security - deterrence=== 
<span class="Underline"> Deterrence is empirically successful – it’s the only explanation of war</span>
<span class="Underline">Moore, 4 – Director of the Center for Security Law at the University of Virginia, Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law (John Norton, “Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace,” page 27-31)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">As so broadly conceived, there is strong evidence that deterrence, that is, the effect of external factors on the decision to go to war, is the missing link in the war/peace equation. In my War/Peace Seminar, I have undertaken to examine the level of deterrence before the principal wars of the twentieth century.10 This examination has led me to believe that in every case the potential aggressor made a rational calculation that the war would be won, and won promptly.11 In fact, the longest period of time calculated for victory through conventional attack seems to be the roughly six reeks predicted by the German General Staff as the time necessary ) prevail on the Western front in World War I under the Schlieffen Plan. Hitler believed in his attack on Poland that Britain and France could not take the occasion to go to war with him. And he believed his 1941 Operation Barbarossa against the Soviet Union that “[w]e have only to kick in the door and the whole rotten structure will come crashing down."12 In contrast, following Hermann Goering's failure to obtain air superiority in the Battle of Britain, Hitler called off the invasion of Britain and shifted strategy to the nighttime bombing of population centers, which became known as the Blitz, in a mistaken effort to compel Britain to sue for peace. Calculations in the North Korean attackon South Korea and Hussein’s attack on Kuwait were that the operations would be completed in a matter of days. Indeed, virtually all principal wars in the twentieth century, at least those involving conventional invasion, were preceded by what I refer to as a "double deterrence absence." That is, the potential aggressor believed that they had the military force in place to prevail promptly and that nations that might have the military or diplomatic power to prevent this were not dined to intervene. This analysis has also shown that many of the perceptions we have about the origins of particular wars are flatly wrong. Anyone who seriously believes that World War I was begun by competing alliances drawing tighter should examine the al historical record of British unwillingness to enter a clear military alliance with the French or to so inform the Kaiser! Indeed, this pre-World War I absence of effective alliance and resultant war contrasts sharply with the laterrobust NATO alliance and absence of World War III.14 Considerable other evidence seems to support this historical analysis as to the importance of deterrence. Of particular note, Yale Professor Donald Kagan, a preeminent United States historian who has long taught a seminar on war, published in 1995 a superb book On the Origins of War and the Preservation of Peace.15 In this book he conducts a detailed examination of the Peloponnesian War, World War I, Hannibal's War, and World War II, among other case studies. A careful reading of these studies suggests that each war could have been prevented by achievable deterrence and that each occurred in the absence of such deterrence.16 Game theory seems to offer yet further support for the proposition that appropriate deterrence can prevent war. For example, Robert Axelrod's famous 1980s experiment in an iterated prisoner's dilemma, which is a reasonably close proxy for many conflict settings in international relations, repeatedly showed the effectiveness of a simple tit for tat strategy.17Such a strategy is at core simply a basic deterrent strategy of influencing behavior through incentives. Similarly, much of thegame-theoretic work on crisis bargaining (and danger of asymmetric information) in relation to war and the democratic peace assumes the importance of deterrence through communication of incentives.18 The well-known correlation between war and territorial contiguity seems also to underscore the importance of deterrence and is likely principally a proxy for levels of perceived profit and military achievability of aggression in many such settings. It should further be noted that the democratic peace is not the only significant correlation with respect to war and peace, although it seems to be the most robust. Professors Russett and Oneal, in recently exploring the other elements of the Kantian proposal for "Perpetual Peace," have also shown a strong and statistically significant correlation between economically important bilateral trade between two nations and a reduction in the risk of war between them. Contrary to the arguments of "dependency theorists," such economically important trade seems to reduce the risk of war regardless of the size relationship or asymmetry in the trade balance between the two states. In addition, there is a statistically significant association between economic openness generally and reduction in the risk of war, although this association is not as strong as the effect of an economically important bilateral trade relationship.° Russett and Oneal also show a modest independent correlation between reduction in the risk of war and higher levels of common membership in international organizations.20 And they show that a large imbalance of power between two states significantly lessens the risk of major war between them.21 All of these empirical findings about war also seem to directly reflect incentives; that is, a higher level of trade would, if foregone in war, impose higher costs in the aggregate than without such trade,22 though we know that not all wars terminate trade. Moreover, with respect to trade, a, classic study, Economic Interdependence and War, suggests that the historic record shows that it is not simply aggregate levels of bilateral trade that matters, but expectations as to the level of trade into the future.23 This directly implicates expectations of the war decision maker as does incentive theory, and it importantly adds to the general finding about trade and war that even with existing high levels of bilateral trade, changing expectations from trade sanctions or other factors affecting the flow of trade can directly affect incentives and influence for or against war. A large imbalance of power in a relationship rather obviously impacts deterrence and incentives. Similarly, one might incur higher costs with high levels of common membership in international organizations through foregoing some of the heightened benefits of such participation or otherwise being presented with different options through the actions or effects of such organizations. These external deterrence elements may also be yet another reason why democracies have a lower risk of war with one another. For their freer markets, trade, commerce, and international engagement may place them in a position where their generally higher level of interaction means that aggression will incur substantial opportunity costs. Thus, the "mechanism" of the democratic peace may be an aggregate of factors affecting incentives, both external as well as internal factors. Because of the underlying truth in the relationship between higher levels of trade and lower levels of war, it is not surprising that theorists throughout human history, including Baron de Montesquieu in 1748, Thomas Paine in 1792, John Stuart Mill in 1848, and, most recently, the founders of the European Union, have argued that increasing commerce and interactions among nations would end war. Though by themselves these arguments have been overoptimistic, it may well be that some level of "globalization" may make the costs of war and the gains of peace so high as to powerfully predispose to peace. Indeed, a 1989 book by John Mueller, Retreat From Doomsday,24 postulates the obsolescence of major war between developed nations (at least those nations within the "first and second worlds") as they become increasingly conscious of the rising costs of war and the rising gains of peace. In assessing levels of democracy, there are indexes readily available, for example, the Polity III25 and Freedom House 26 indexes. I am unaware of any comparable index with respect to levels of deterrence that might be used to test the importance of deterrence in war avoidance?' Absent such an accepted index, discussion about the importance of deterrence is subject to the skeptical observation that one simply defines effective deterrence by whether a war did or did not occur. In order to begin to deal with this objection and encourage a more objective methodology for assessing deterrence, I encouraged a project to seek to develop a rough but objective measure of deterrence with a scale from minus ten to plus ten based on a large variety of contextual features that would be given relative weighting in a complex deterrence equation before applying the scaling to different war and nonwar settings.28 On the disincentive side of the scale, the methodology used a weighted calculation of local deterrence, including the chance to prevent a short- and intermediate-term military victory, and economic and political disincentives; extended deterrence with these same elements; and contextual communication and credibility multipliers. On the incentive side of the scale, the methodology also used a weighted calculation of perceived military, economic, and political benefits. The scales were then combined into an overall deterrence score, including, an estimate for any effect of prospect theory where applicable.2 This innovative first effort uniformly showed high deterrence scores in settings where war did not, in fact, occur. Deterring a Soviet first strike in the Cuban Missile Crisis produced a score of +8.5 and preventing a Soviet attack against NATO produced a score of +6. War settings, however, produced scores ranging from -2.29 (Saddam Hussein's decision to invade Kuwait in the Gulf War), -2.18 (North Korea's decision to invade South Korea in the Korean War), -1.85 (Hitler's decision to invade Poland in World War II), -1.54 (North Vietnam's decision to invade South Vietnam following the Paris Accords), -0.65 (Milosevic's decision to defy NATO in Kosovo), +0.5 (the Japanese decision to attack Pearl Harbor), +1.25 (the Austrian decision, egged on by Germany, to attack Serbia, which was the real beginning of World War I), to +1.75 (the German decision to invade Belgium and France in World War I). As a further effort at scaling and as a point of comparison, I undertook to simply provide an impressionistic rating based on my study of each pre-crisis setting. That produced high positive scores of +9 for both deterring a Soviet first strike during the Cuban Missile Crisis and NATO's deterrence of a Warsaw Pact attack and even lower scores than the more objective effort in settings where wars had occurred. Thus, I scored North Vietnam's decision to invade South Vietnam following the Paris Accords and the German decision to invade Poland at the beginning of World War II as -6; the North Korean/Stalin decision to invade South Korea in the Korean War as -5; the Iraqi decision to invade the State of Kuwait as -4; Milosevic's decision to defy NATO in Kosovo and the German decision to invade Belgium and France in World War I as -2; and the Austrian decision to attack Serbia and the Japanese decision to attack Pearl Harbor as -1. Certainly even knowledgeable experts would be likely to differ in their impressionistic scores on such pre-crisis settings, and the effort at a more objective methodology for scoring deterrence leaves much to be desired. Nevertheless, both exercises did seem to suggest that deterrence matters and that high levels of deterrence can prevent future war. Following up on this initial effort to produce a more objective measure of deterrence, two years later I encouraged another project to undertake the same effort, building on what had been learned in the first iteration. The result was a second project that developed a modified scoring system, also incorporating local deterrence, extended deterrence, and communication of intent and credibility multipliers on one side of a scale, and weighing these factors against a potential aggressor's overall subjective incentives for action on the other side of the scale.3° The result, with a potential range of -5.5 to +10, produced no score higher than +2.5 for eighteen major wars studied between 1939 and the 1990 Gulf War.31 Twelve of the eighteen wars produced a score of zero or below, with the 1950-53 Korean War at -3.94, the 1965-75 Vietnam War at -0.25, the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq War at -1.53, and the 1990-91 Gulf War at -3.83. The study concluded that in more than fifty years of conflict there was "no situation in which a regime elite/decision making body subjectively faced substantial disincentives to aggressive military action and yet attacked."32</span>

<span class="Underline">Deterrence is an art and not a science. Endorse it despite risks of failure because there’s no coherent alternative.</span>
<span class="Underline">Gray, 10 - (7/22/10, Colin S. Gray, PhD, Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, previously served as an adviser both to the U.S. and the British governments, External Researcher at the Strategic Studies Institute at the US Army War College, has published 22 books on military history and strategic studies, “Gaining Compliance: The Theory of Deterrence and its Modern Application,” Comparative Strategy, 29: 3, 278 - 283, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01495933.2010.492198) </span>
<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">Deterrence is an art and not a quantifiable science. I am not arguing that deterrence success is strictly random. But, just as Clausewitz insists that war is “the realm of chance,” so also is success with deterrence.7 However, war is not only the realm of chance, and nor is deterrence. My argument is that in principle we can load the dice for deterrence in our favor, but we can never guarantee success. From time to time, people who should know better attempt to convert what should be regarded prudentially as the loose concept of “the calculus of deterrence” into actual arithmetic. Such folly typically is a waste of taxpayers' money; it becomes dangerous only if policymakers take such an exercise seriously. The basic idea is sound enough. One tries conscientiously to relate costs to benefits. For illustration, to deter Iran from pursuing further its long standing commitment to nuclear-weapon status, one has to find threats that when, or should I say if, executed in action would cause pain to Tehran that should more than outweigh the benefits that Iran anticipates securing as a well merited consequence of its nuclear program. When modern deterrence theory was being written in the 1950s, very much with the nuclear context in mind, of course, theorists were alert to the challenge of posing threats that would be simultaneously both sufficiently terrifying to malevolent and possibly desperate Russians, yet not so terrifying to us as deterrers that we would be self-deterred. We struggled for decades to square the circle in trying to render thoroughly incredible threats somewhat less improbable. Obviously, it is no easy matter to persuade the policymakers of a hostile state that our state contingently would be willing to take action, most probably with suicidal consequences. A theoretical solution to the suicide conundrum that lurked undeniably at the dark heart of mutual nuclear deterrence was what theorist and later Nobel Prize-winning economist, Thomas C. Schelling, called “the threat that leaves something to chance.”8 Translated, this means that I cannot threaten credibly to take action that must ruin us both, but I can threaten credibly to take modest steps toward what would be a mutual suicide pact, unless you provide me with good reason to be more reasonable and responsible. One way to enhance the credibility of seemingly incredible threats is to make public commitments that it would be deeply embarrassing to renege on. In other words, you would try so to commit yourself that your political freedom of choice would be strictly constrained.9 Needless to say, perhaps, this idea had more appeal to academic theorists than to politicians. I must hasten to add that nuclear deterrence would seem to work much better in practice than it does in theory.10 You will appreciate how difficult it can be to know, really to know with certainty, why feared events did not happen. Not unreasonably, many people claim that the Cold War “long peace” was kept, substantially, by nuclear deterrence.11 That may be so, but we do not really know. Sometimes, I suspect that we survived the Cold War more by luck than judgment. And, there are some scholars around who will tell you that the Cold War peace was heavily overdetermined, and, if anything, the so-called nuclear deterrents actually contributed more to danger than they did to stability. Take your choice of unprovable rival theories. I incline to the view that nuclear weapons contributed more to international order than to disorder, but I admit to having been troubled by these words written by Sir Michael Howard in the 1990s. Sir Michael wrote: “[b]eyond doubt we effectively deterred the Soviet Union from using military force to achieve its political objectives …” And he wrote also that “[w]e have become rather expert at deterrence.”12 He was probably correct, but our inability to test the hypothesis rigorously does worry me. If, contrary to Sir Michael's judgment, we were more lucky than clever in deterring the Soviets, it is likely that we will misread the history of the Cold War. The overlap in logic between deterrence in the Cold War context and today is greater than may appear to be so. The general theory of deterrence should apply eternally and universally. Whether or not a particular political player is deterrable, and by what threats that might be achieved, can only ever be determined by the specific details of the actual historical context, and even then only by experience, which means trial and error. And even the very best laid deterrence designs can be thwarted by friction, accident, and sheer bad luck. </span>
===2AC pos peace=== 
<span class="Underline">There are no prior questions to problem oriented IR- empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action</span>
<span class="Underline">David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7</span>
<span class="Underline">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>

<span class="Underline">State power is inevitable. American primacy is a viable way to reduce violence. The plan creates a more just order by splitting the difference between violent realism and utopian nonsense.</span>
<span class="Underline">Elshtain ‘7 (Jean Bethke, Prof. Social and Politics Ethics – U. Chicago, and Chair in Foundations of American Freedom – Georgetown U., Studies in Christian Ethics, “Against the New Utopianism”, 20:1, Ebsco)</span>
<span class="Underline">Neo-Kantianism, of whatever stripe, … concerning political life and order.</span>

<span class="Underline">Anarchy makes great power competition inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer 2001 [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, Kindle location 213]</span>
<span class="Underline">Alas, the claim that security … threaten such a mighty power.</span>

<span class="Underline">Structural violence is an obscure metaphor. Its use cannot lead to positive changes because it conflates distinct and generally unrelated problems of violence and poverty.</span>
<span class="Underline">Boulding ’77 (Kenneth, Faculty – U. Colorado Boulder, Former Pres. American Economic Association, Society for General Systems Research, and American Association for the Advancement of Science, Journal of Peace Research, “Twelve Friendly Quarrels with Johan Galtung”, 14:1, JSTOR)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, we come to the … us from finding the answer.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> A2 politics DA </span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">2AC:</span>==== 
<span class="Underline"> -Plan would be implemented through the Operationally Responsive Space concept – that’s Williams – this is a separate office that doesn’t go through Congress – and, it shields the link</span>
<span class="Underline">Best Jr. 11 (Richard, Specialist in National Defense, “Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Acquisition: Issues for Congress,” CRS Report for Congress, January 20, 2011, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/intel/R41284.pdf, YS)</span>
<span class="Underline">Other observers maintain, however, … needs of Central Command.</span>

<span class="Underline">b) Means no spending link</span>
<span class="Underline">Jurist, Hook, and Livingston, ‘9 [John M. Jurist, Professor of Space Studies in the Odegard School of Aerospace Sciences at the University of North Dakota; David C. Hook, president of Planehook Aviation Services; David Livingston, adjunct professor in the Odegard School. “Small Unit Space Transport And Insertion (SUSTAIN): How to Do It and Use It as a Driver for Low-Cost Responsive Orbital Launch”. 7th Responsive Space Conference, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. http://responsivespace.com/Papers/RS7/SESSIONS/SESSION%20I/1002_JURIST/1002P.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline"> For SUSTAIN, a man-carrying … spread between several programs. </span>


<span class="Underline">Widespread support for space in aerospace industry and government</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">4.2.6.1.1 Industry and Government stakeholders … zero sum gain resource constraints. </span>

<span class="Underline">Particularly true for the aff</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">This particular discussion was guided … with by the conference participants:</span>

<span class="Underline">Aerospace key to the agenda</span>
<span class="Underline">Lasker 8 (John, IPS, “ Aerospace Lobby Wages Its Own Election Campaign,” Sep 5, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=43804)</span>
<span class="Underline">What is notable about AIA's … "space hawks" by peace activists. </span>


<span class="Underline">Winners Win</span>
<span class="Underline">Green 10 [professor of political science at Hofstra University, David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">Moreover, there is a continuously evolving … is precisely what they did.</span>

<span class="Underline">Capital is irrelevant</span>
<span class="Underline">Dickinson 09 professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt</span>
<span class="Underline">(5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/)</span>
<span class="Underline">As for Sotomayor, from … Sotomayor as his nominee. </span>

====<span class="Underline">1AR:</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">xt pc not real - Consensus of political scientists goes aff</span>
<span class="Underline">Beckman and Kumar, '11 (Mathew N and Vival, Department of Political Science, University of California. Journal of Theoretical Politics, vol 23, no 1, January 2011. “How presidents push, when presidents win: A model of positive presidential power in US lawmaking”. http://jtp.sagepub.com/content/23/1/3.abstract)</span>
<span class="Underline">Deciding how best to promote … inﬂuence have missed most of it.</span>
===2AC A2 space arms race DA=== 
<span class="Underline">2. Non unique – air force space plane</span>
<span class="Underline">The China Post 10 [The China Post, “Weapons of the Future the Sky should be the Limit” December 7, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/editorial/world-issues/2010/12/07/282551/Weapons-of.htm]</span>
<span class="Underline">Dec. 3, 2010 may go down in … with potential first-strike capability.</span>


<span class="Underline">4. Space weapons aren’t destabilizing—deescalation and communication more likely – prefer historical evidence</span>
<span class="Underline">Steven Lambakis, PhD in World Politics, Catholic University of America, and senior defense analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy (Hoover Institution) '1 [“Space Weapons: Refuting the Critics”. Feb 1 http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6612]</span>
<span class="Underline">The case against deploying weapons … escalation with care, not dispatch.</span>

[soft power addon]

<span class="Underline"> 5. SUSTAIN technology would allow satellite repair and reconstitution – that’s Williams</span>
<span class="Underline"> b) solves space war</span>
<span class="Underline">Butterworth, 8 - President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Responses Satellites can be defended … scarcely be considered escalatory.</span>

===<span class="Underline">add-on - soft power / disaster relief</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">4. Plan is key to humanitarian assistance – solves soft power</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">America has been and must … SUSTAIN concept of early intervention. </span>

<span class="Underline">Unchecked disasters cause extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5 [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm] </span>
<span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">The earthquake that struck deep under the Indian Ocean was the strongest in over a century. What is still more critical is that what we have witnessed so far is only the beginning of the catastrophe. According to a spokesman from the World Health organisation, "there is certainly a chance that we could have as many dying from communicable diseases as from the tsunamis". The logistics of providing the survivors with clean water, vaccines and medicines are formidable, and, with many thousands of bodies lying unburied, epidemics spread by waterborne diseases are expected to claim many thousands of victims. There is also the possibility of seismic activity elsewhere in the world because disturbances in the inner structure of the earth's crust have occurred and there are no means to foresee how they will unfold. Will they build up into still broader disarray and eventually move our planet out of its orbit around the sun? Moreover, even if we can avoid the worse possible scenario, how can we contain the earthquake's effects ecologically, meteorologically, economically and socially? The contradiction between Man and Nature has reached unprecedented heights, forcing us to re-examine our understanding of the existing world system. US President George W Bush has announced the creation of an international alliance between the US, Japan, India, Australia and any other nation wishing to join that will work to help the stricken region overcome the huge problems it is facing in the wake of the tsunamis. Actually, the implications of the disaster are not only regional but global, not to say cosmic. Is it possible to mobilise all the inhabitants of our planet to the extent and at the speed necessary to avert similar disasters in future? How to engender the required state of emergency, that is, a different type of inter-human relations which rise to the level of the challenge before contradictions between the various sections of the world community make that collective effort unrealisable? The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within living memory. What happened in South Asia is the ecological equivalent of 9/11. Ecological problems like global warming and climatic disturbances in general threaten to make our natural habitat unfit for human life. The extinction of the species has become a very real possibility, whether by our own hand or as a result of natural disasters of a much greater magnitude than the Indian Ocean earthquake and the killer waves it spawned. Human civilisation has developed in the hope that Man will be able to reach welfare and prosperity on earth for everybody. But now things seem to be moving in the opposite direction, exposing planet Earth to the end of its role as a nurturing place for human life. Today, human conflicts have become less of a threat than the confrontation between Man and Nature. At least they are less likely to bring about the end of the human species. The reactions of Nature as a result of its exposure to the onslaughts of human societies have become more important in determining the fate of the human species than any harm it can inflict on itself. Until recently, the threat Nature represented was perceived as likely to arise only in the long run, related for instance to how global warming would affect life on our planet. Such a threat could take decades, even centuries, to reach a critical level. This perception has changed following the devastating earthquake and tsunamis that hit the coastal regions of South Asia and, less violently, of East Africa, on 26 December. This cataclysmic event has underscored the vulnerability of our world before the wrath of Nature and shaken the sanguine belief that the end of the world is a long way away. Gone are the days when we could comfort ourselves with the notion that the extinction of the human race will not occur before a long-term future that will only materialise after millions of years and not affect us directly in any way. We are now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind. </span>


<span class="Underline">b) Soft power solves global instability, the environment and extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Closson 04 Executive Director of Acterra, a Regional Environmental Organization based in Palo Alto</span>
<span class="Underline">(Michael, Palo Alto Weekly, 8/4, http://www.paloaltoonline.com/weekly/morgue/2004/2004_08_04.ehrlich04ja.shtml)</span>
<span class="Underline">. Like Nineveh's, our country's … unrest, including -- not incidentally -- terrorism. </span>

<span class="Underline">c) Space weapons inevitable, soft power solves the impact [read on space arms race DA]</span>
<span class="Underline">Brown 09 – Masters of Science from Rajaratnam School of International Studies @ Nanyang Technological University [Trevor Brown, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air & Space Power Journal - Spring 2009, pg. http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html//edlee</span>
<span class="Underline">Evidently, rhetoric emanating … and retain soft power.</span>
===add-on - commercial space=== 

Plan opens up space to commercial development

Dinerman, ‘6 – Taylor, well know space writer and journalist [The Space Review. “Low-cost access to orbit: space Marines to the rescue”. The Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/530/1]

A fully operational SUSTAIN type … will have saved the day.

Only commercial space can prevent extinction. It would be hell on earth in the interim.

Collins & Autino 10 – Professor of Life & Environmental Science @ Azabu University & Systems Engineer @ Andromeda Inc., Italy [Patrick Collins (Expert in the economics of energy supply from space) & Adriano Autino, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562]

7.2. High return in safety … enormous wasted resource. Pg. 1561-1562
===add-on - atmospheric research=== 
<span class="Underline"> Plan key to atmospheric research</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Transportation Technology Roadmap, ’10 – a collaboration by government and industry to address U.S. government and commercial space transportation needs, hosted by Marine Lt. Colonel Paul Damphouse, Chief of Advanced Concepts at the NSSO [October 21, http://www.nasawatch.com/images/Space.Tran.Tech.Roadmap.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-size: 5.33333px;">o 4.3.3.4 Routine High Altitude Atmospheric Research NASA remains committed to better understanding the earth‘s atmosphere and to monitoring its metamorphosis due to all causal factors, both natural and man-made. Teamed with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), NASA could conduct manned and/or unmanned missions to space for sampling and observations on short notice, and globally. This routine and flexible access to suborbital space (at a minimum) would permit an unprecedented volume of data to be collected and analyzed in real-time for models and decision makers, not only in the U.S. but for the international community. </span>

<span class="Underline">multiple extinction threats</span>
<span class="Underline">Killeen 5 (Timothy L., Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 2.66667px;">The first example is probably well known to you. The ozone "holes" in the Antarctic and Arctic were monitored from space by various NASA satellite systems, including the Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS). The diagnosis of the physical and chemical mechanisms responsible for these dangerous changes to our protective ozone shield was made possible by the combination of observations, modeling, and theory supported by NASA. In fact, it was a NASA high-altitude aircraft that made the "smoking gun" measurements that convinced the scientific and policy communities that chlorine compounds produced by various human activities were centrally responsible for the observed ozone loss. Following these observations, international protocols were put in place that are beginning to ameliorate the global-scale ozone loss. The TOMS instrument has provided an ongoing source of data that permits us to track the level of ozone in the stratosphere, the annual opening and closing of the "ozone hole," and how this phenomenon is changing over time. These continuing measurements and analyses and the effective regulatory response have led, among other things, to a reduction in projected deaths from skin cancer worldwide. Last week, President Bush mentioned proposed rules to limit air pollution from coalfired power plants. Air pollution is clearly an important concern. NASA has played a major role in the development of new technologies that can monitor the sources and circulation patterns of air pollution globally. It is another tremendous story of science serving society through innovation. In this case, through an international collaboration, NASA deployed a one-of-a-kind instrument designed to observe global carbon monoxide and its transport from the NASA Terra spacecraft. These animations show the first global observations of air pollution. Sources of carbon monoxide include industrial processes (see, for example, source regions in the Pacific Rim) and fires (for example in Amazonia). These global-scale data from space have helped change our understanding of the relationship between pollution and air quality - we now know that pollution is not solely or even primarily a local or regional problem. California's air quality is influenced by industrial activity in Asia, and Europe's air quality is influenced by activities here in America. From such pioneering work, operational systems can now be designed to observe pollution events, the global distribution of chemicals and particulate matter in the atmosphere, and the ways in which these substances interact and affect the ability of the atmosphere to sustain life - such a system will undoubtedly underpin future efforts to understand, monitor, and manage air quality globally. Without NASA's commitment to innovation in the Earth sciences, it is hard to believe that such an incredible new capability would be available today. The Promise of Earth Observations in the Next Decade The achievements of the last several decades have laid the foundation for an unprecedented era of discovery and innovation in Earth system science. Advances in observing technologies have been accompanied by vast improvements in computing and data processing. When the Earth Observing System satellites were being designed, processing and archiving the data was a central challenge. The Terra satellite produces about 194 gigabytes of raw data per day, which seemed a daunting prospect at the time of its definition. Now laptop memories are measured in gigabytes, students can work with remote sensing datasets on their laptops, and a large data center like NCAR increases our data holdings by about 1000 gigabytes per day. The next generation of high performance computing systems, which will be deployed during the next five years or so, will be petascale systems, meaning that they will be able to process millions of gigabytes of data. The ongoing revolution in information technology has provided us with capabilities we could hardly conceive of when the current generation of Earth observing satellites was being developed. We have just begun to take advantage of the synergies between these technological areas. The U.S., through NASA, is uniquely positioned to take advantage of this technological opportunity. Example 3: Weather Forecasting Weather forecasting in the Southern Hemisphere has been dramatically improved through NASA's contributions, and this experience illustrates the power of remote sensing for further global improvements in weather prediction. The lack of surface- based data in the Southern Hemisphere once meant that predictive skill lagged considerably behind that achieved in the Northern Hemisphere. The improvement in the accuracy of Southern Hemisphere weather forecasting is well documented and almost entirely due to the increased use of remote-sensing data. But improvements in the quality of satellite data were not sufficient. Improvements in data assimilation a family of techniques for integrating observational results into predictive models were also necessary. The combination has resulted in rapid improvement in Southern Hemisphere forecasting, which is now nearly equal to that in northern regions. Data assimilation capabilities continue to advance rapidly. One can now easily conceive of forecast systems that will fuse data from satellites, ground-based systems, databases, and models to provide predictions with unprecedented detail and accuracy - perhaps reaching natural limits of predictability. A new generation of weather forecast models with cloud-resolving spatial resolution is coming on line, and these models show significant promise for improving forecast skills across the board. Use of new NASA remote sensing data from upcoming missions such as Calipso (Cloud- Aerosol and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite) and CloudSat will be essential to fully validate and tune these new capabilities which will serve the nation in providing improved hurricane and severe storm prediction, and in the development of numerous decision support systems reliant on state-of-the-art numerical weather prediction capabilities. Example 4: Earth System Models Data from NASA missions are central to constructing more comprehensive and detailed models that will more realistically represent the complexity of the Earth system. Cloud observations from MODIS (the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) and precipitation measurements from GPM (the Global Precipitation Mission), for example, are critical to improving the representation of clouds and the water cycle in such models. Observations from MODIS and Landsat are fundamental to the development of more sophisticated representation of marine and terrestrial ecosystems and atmosphere-land surface interactions. The inclusion of this detail will help in the creation of true Earth system models that will enable detailed investigation of the interactions of Earth system processes and multiple environmental stresses within physically consistent simulated systems. In general terms, Earth system observations represent the only means of validating Earth system model predictions. Our confidence in short-term, regional-scale weather predictions is based on how closely they match observed regional conditions. Assessing the performance of global-scale, longer-term model predictions likewise depends on comparing model results with observational records. Scientific confidence in the ability of general circulation models to represent Earth's climate has been greatly enhanced by comparing model results for the last century with the observational records from that period. At the same time, the sparse and uneven nature of past observational records is an ongoing source of uncertainty in the evaluation of model results. The existence of much more comprehensive and consistent global measurements from space such as the data from the NASA Terra, Aqua, and Aura satellites is a giant step forward in this regard, and, if maintained, will enable much more rigorous evaluation of model performance in the future. In summary, Earth system models, with increasing temporal and spatial resolutions and validated predictive capabilities, will be used by industry and governmental decision makers across a host of domains into the foreseeable future. This knowledge base will drive new economies and efficiencies within our society. I believe that requirements flowing from the needs and capabilities of sophisticated Earth system models will be very useful for NASA in developing strategic roadmaps for future missions. C. The Importance of Careful Planning The central role of NASA in supporting Earth system science, the demonstrated success and impact of previous and current NASA missions, and the promise of continued advances in scientific understanding and societal benefits all argue for a careful, analytical approach to major modifications in the NASA Earth science program. As noted above, the development of space systems is a time-consuming and difficult process. Today's actions and plans will have long-term consequences for our nation's capabilities in this area. The link between plans and actions is one of the most important points I want to address today. From the outside, the interagency planning process seems to be experiencing substantial difficulties in maintaining this link. The NASA Earth science program is part of two major Presidential initiatives, the Climate Change Science Program (CCSP) and the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS). With regard to the CCSP, it is not apparent that the strategies and plans developed through the interagency process are having much impact on NASA decision-making. In January 2004, then- Administrator of NASA, Sean O'Keefe, called for acceleration of the NASA Glory mission because of the direct relevance of the mission to understanding the roles of aerosols in the climate system, which is one of the highest-priority science questions defined in the CCSP research strategy. NASA is now proposing cancellation of the mission. As I have emphasized throughout this testimony, the progress of and benefits from Earth system science research are contingent upon close coordination between research, modeling, and observations. The close coordination of program planning among the agencies that support these activities is also a necessity. This coordination currently appears to be fragile. The effect of significant redirections in NASA and reduction in NASA's Earth science effort are equally worrisome in the case of the Administration's GEOSS initiative, which is focused on improving the international coordination of environmental observing systems. Both NASA and NOAA satellite programs are vital to this effort. The science community is very supportive of the GEOSS concept and goals. There are over 100 space-based remote-sensing systems that are either operating or planned by various nations for the next decade. Collaboration among space systems, between space- and ground-based systems, and between suppliers and users of observational data is critical to avoiding duplication of effort and to getting the most out of the investments in observing technology. The tragic example of the Indian Ocean Tsunami demonstrates the need for such coordination. The tsunami was detected and observed before hitting land, but the absence of effective communication links prevented warnings from reaching those who needed them in time. A functioning GEOSS could lead to major improvements in the rapid availability of data and warnings, and the U.S. is right to make development of such a system a priority. But U.S. credibility and leadership of this initiative will be called into question if our nation is unable or unwilling to coordinate and maintain the U.S. programs that make up the core of our proposed contribution. D. Answers to Questions Posed by the Committee My testimony to this point has outlined my views on a series of key issues for the NASA Earth science program. Much of the text found above is relevant to consideration of the specific questions posed by the Committee in its letter of invitation. In this section, I provide more direct answers to these questions to the extent possible and appropriate. How should NASA prioritize currently planned and future missions? What criteria should NASA use in doing so? I believe that NASA should work with the scientific and technical community and its partner agencies to define a NASA Earth science plan that is fully compatible with the overall CCSP and GEOSS science strategies. In my view, the interaction with the scientific and technical community should include both input from and review by the National Research Council (NRC) and direct interaction with the strong national community of Earth science investigators and the aerospace industry who are very familiar with NASA capabilities and developing technological opportunities. Competitive peer review processes should be used appropriately in assessing the merit of competing approaches and in key decision- making. I believe NASA should also find a means of involving users and potential users of NASA-generated data in this process, perhaps through public comment periods or a series of workshops. Sufficient time should be allotted to this process for a careful and deliberative evaluation of options. This science plan should then guide the process of setting mission priorities. Defining criteria to use in comparing and deciding upon potential missions would be an important part of this planning exercise. I would recommend consideration of a set of criteria that include: -- compatibility with science priorities in the CCSP and GEOSS science plans -- potential scientific return from mission -- technological risk -- direct and indirect societal benefits -- cost. I believe that the decadal planning activity underway at the NRC in response to a request from NASA and NOAA is a valuable step in this process. What are the highest priority unaddressed or unanswered questions in Earth science observations from space? I believe this question is most appropriately addressed through the community process suggested above. There are many important Earth science questions, and prioritizing among them is best done in a deliberative and transparent process that involves extensive input from and discussion by the science community. I would personally cite soil moisture, three-dimensional cloud characteristics, global vector tropospheric winds, pollutant characteristics and transport, carbon fluxes, and aerosol distributions as all high priority measurements to make on a global scale. What have been the most important contributions to society that have come from NASA Earth sciences over the last decade (or two)? NASA Earth science programs have played a key role in developing our understanding of the Earth as a coupled system of inter- related parts, and in the identification and documentation of a series of global-scale changes in the Earth's environment, including ozone depletion, land use and land cover change, loss of biodiversity, and climate change. Other examples of societal contributions include improved weather forecasting, improved understanding of the large-scale climate variations, such as the El Nino- Southern Oscillation and the North Atlantic Oscillation that alter seasonal patterns of rainfall, and improved understanding of the status of and changes in marine and terrestrial ecosystems that contributes to more effective management of natural resources. What future benefits to the nation (societal applications) are possible that NASA Earth sciences could provide? What gaps in our knowledge must we fill before those future benefits are possible? In a broad sense, NASA Earth science activities are part of developing a global Earth information system that can provide ongoing and accurate information about the status of and changes in the atmosphere, oceans, and marine and terrestrial ecosystems that sustain life, including the impact of human activities. The continued development of observation systems, sophisticated Earth system models, data assimilation methods, and information technologies holds the promise of much improved predictions of weather and climate variations and much more effective prediction and warning of natural hazards. Much has already been accomplished to lay the groundwork for such a system, but many important questions remain. Some of the most important have to do with the functioning and human alteration of the Earth's carbon, nitrogen, and water cycles, and how these cycles interact; the regional manifestation of global scale climate change; and the reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.</span>
===add-on - cyber=== 
<span class="Underline"> SUSTAIN is key to resilience against cyber and electronic attacks</span>
<span class="Underline">Williams, ‘7 – Shon P., Major, USAF [“Wild Ride: Launching Troops Through Space for Rapid Precision Global Intervention”. April. Blue Horizons Paper, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA497529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] note: cyber 9/11 is a scenario in which the US is attacked with cyber or electronic attacks</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">In the next three scenarios, we start seeing rapid space mobility really making a big 23 difference. In Cyber 9/11, the US would benefit from the ability to provide rapid, persistent ISR, perhaps in the form of unmanned aircraft (UA) and a team of joint terminal attack controllers (JTAC) and Marines or SOF deployed from a space vehicle. 50 Quick response would be crucial since the intelligence in this case is limited, so we would want to follow any short-notice intelligence leads that we had. The availability of EMP weapons raises the stakes on this scenario as well. Next, if the Information Immobilization enemy successfully immobilizes our information, we need to rapidly mobilize it again to prevent the enemy from beating us with their less advanced material forces. Rapid replacement of UAVs, C4ISR equipment, and even satellites rendered inoperative from cyberattack are all possibilities. Thirdly, Guerrillas in the Mist are like the adversary in the David and Goliath scenario, but they are less dangerous, and probably will not use WMD due to the desire to minimize collateral damage on their own people; however, rapid space transport will pay dividends again by providing rapid ISR capabilities to follow short-notice intelligence leads. </span>

<span class="Underline">Global nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Lawson 09 (5/13, Dr. Sean Lawson is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation,” Transformation Tracker, http://seanlawson.rhetorical-devices.net/2009/05/13/477)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">At a time when it seems impossible to avoid the seemingly growing hysteria over the threat of cyber war,[1] network security expert Marcus Ranum delivered a refreshing talk recently, “The Problem with Cyber War,” that took a critical look at a number of the assumptions underlying contemporary cybersecurity discourse in the United States. He addressed one issue in partiuclar that I would like to riff on here, the issue of conflict escalation–i.e. the possibility that offensive use of cyber attacks could escalate to the use of physical force. As I will show, his concerns are entirely legitimate as current U.S. military cyber doctrine assumes the possibility of what I call “cross-domain responses” to cyberattacks. Backing Your Adversary (Mentally) into a Corner Based on the premise that completely blinding a potential adversary is a good indicator to that adversary that an attack is iminent, Ranum has argued that “The best thing that you could possibly do if you want to start World War III is launch a cyber attack. [...] When people talk about cyber war like it’s a practical thing, what they’re really doing is messing with the OK button for starting World War III. We need to get them to sit the f-k down and shut the f-k up.” [2] He is making a point similar to one that I have made in the past: Taking away an adversary’s ability to make rational decisions could backfire. [3] For example, Gregory Witol cautions that “attacking the decision makerÃ¢â‚â„¢s ability to perform rational calculations may cause more problems than it hopes to resolveÃ¢â‚Â¦ Removing the capacity for rational action may result in completely unforeseen consequences, including longer and bloodier battles than may otherwise have been.” [4] Ã¯Â»Â¿Cross-Domain Response So, from a theoretical standpoint, I think his concerns are well founded. But the current state of U.S. policy may be cause for even greater concern. It’s not just worrisome that a hypothetical blinding attack via cyberspace could send a signal of imminent attack and therefore trigger an irrational response from the adversary. What is also cause for concern is that current U.S. policy indicates that “kinetic attacks” (i.e. physical use of force) are seen as potentially legitimate responses to cyber attacks. Most worrisome is that current U.S. policy implies that a nuclear response is possible, something that policy makers have not denied in recent press reports. The reason, in part, is that the U.S. defense community has increasingly come to see cyberspace as a “domain of warfare” equivalent to air, land, sea, and space. The definition of cyberspace as its own domain of warfare helps in its own right to blur the online/offline, physical-space/cyberspace boundary. But thinking logically about the potential consequences of this framing leads to some disconcerting conclusions. If cyberspace is a domain of warfare, then it becomes possible to define “cyber attacks” (whatever those may be said to entail) as acts of war. But what happens if the U.S. is attacked in any of the other domains? It retaliates. But it usually does not respond only within the domain in which it was attacked. Rather, responses are typically “cross-domain responses”–i.e. a massive bombing on U.S. soil or vital U.S. interests abroad (e.g. think 9/11 or Pearl Harbor) might lead to air strikes against the attacker. Even more likely given a U.S. military “way of warfare” that emphasizes multidimensional, “joint” operations is a massive conventional (i.e. non-nuclear) response against the attacker in all domains (air, land, sea, space), simultaneously. The possibility of “kinetic action” in response to cyber attack, or as part of offensive U.S. cyber operations, is part of the current (2006) National Military Strategy for Cyberspace Operations [5]: Of course, the possibility that a cyber attack on the U.S. could lead to a U.S. nuclear reply constitutes possibly the ultimate in “cross-domain response.” And while this may seem far fetched, it has not been ruled out by U.S. defense policy makers and is, in fact, implied in current U.S. defense policy documents. From the National Military Strategy of the United States (2004): “The term WMD/E relates to a broad range of adversary capabilities that pose potentially devastating impacts. WMD/E includes chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and enhanced high explosive weapons as well as other, more asymmetrical ‘weapons’. They may rely more on disruptive impact than destructive kinetic effects. For example, cyber attacks on US commercial information systems or attacks against transportation networks may have a greater economic or psychological effect than a relatively small release of a lethal agent.” [6] The authors of a 2009 National Academies of Science report on cyberwarfare respond to this by saying, “Coupled with the declaratory policy on nuclear weapons described earlier, this statement implies that the United States will regard certain kinds of cyberattacks against the United States as being in the same category as nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, and thus that a nuclear response to certain kinds of cyberattacks (namely, cyberattacks with devastating impacts) may be possible. </span>
===add-on - democracy=== 
<span class="Underline">Power projection is key to democracy – trades off with internal policing</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 34)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">States with military forces organized for offensive operations will tend to develop a less centralized, more democratic political structure than states whose military forces are organized for defensive operations. A defensive military posture requires the capacity for internal occupation and is therefore conducive to the concentration of power that promotes authoritarian institutions. Conversely, an offensive military structure will have an outward bias, and will be less involved with issues of civil/internal stability. Of course, militaries have had a remarkable capacity to absorb both offensive duties and internal repression chores—the two are not mutually exclusive—but the general interest herein is the impact of one versus the other.</span>


<span class="Underline">US is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘4 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. The Warrior State. Pp 159) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">Domestically and as a plan for foreign policy, a proper military organization is a relatively inexpensive and potentially high payout option. The issue has salience as the world moves closer to universal democracy, or at least as the United States pushes democratization as a pillar of its foreign policy. As American liberal democracy is the world’s oldest and most stable, it has become a model for others, a beacon of hope for many. Its military is at present the world’s strongest, and the most emulated. The interplay between military organization and political institutions here becomes critical. Where goes the United States, goes the world. </span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Diamond, Larry, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University, 95 "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 1.33333px;">This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.</span>

==Space weaponization - Wake== 
===1AC - <span class="Underline">Plan</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should place weapons beyond the mesosphere.</span>
===<span class="Underline">1AC Uniqueness</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Space weaponization is inevitable – it can’t be a sanctuary</span>
<span class="Underline">Sheldon, professor of air and space studies, and Gray, IR prof, ‘11 -- * Marshall Institute Fellow, and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University, AND ** prof of International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, United Kingdom (John B. and Colin, “Theory Ascendant?: Spacepower and the Challenge of Strategic Theory” in “Toward a Theory of Space Power: selected essays” ed. Lutes and Hayes, published 2011. http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">The idea that space can redeem human sin still persists in many quarters. The reason for this persistence is as much about the perception of space as a place, and what that place purports to represent, as it is about the technologies required for its manned and unmanned exploration and use. This particular way of framing space can be described as astrofuturism, which "posits the space frontier as a site of renewal, a place where we can resolve the domestic and global battles that have paralyzed our progress on earth."45 We believe that space as a place is no different from the land, sea, and air, and we reject the astrofuturist credo as a fallacy. Human beings and their robotic proxies operate and (in the case of the land) live every day in these environments, carrying out myriad functions from the spiritual and artistic to the martial (and these are by no means mutually exclusive). Our entry into space must respect the human condition in its entirety, good and bad, and attempts to redeem human nature through the wonders of technology or hopes that the infinite expanse of space will offer the opportunity to unite humankind where our existence on Earth has failed are bound to disappoint. It is tragic but true that "short of a revolution in the heart of man and the nature of states, by what miracle could interplanetary space be preserved from military use?"46 Strategy, Eternal and Universal In the quest for a theory of spacepower, it is perhaps wise to first state categorically what such a theory should not be. In particular, a theory of spacepower should not be at odds with the universal and eternal logic of strategy. Instead, it should be a theory of its use in the service of strategy. Edward N. Luttwak points out that to postulate such a thing as "nuclear strategy," "naval strategy," or, in this case, "space strategy" is to argue that each of these kinds of strategy is somehow fundamentally different from the strategy that governs them all. Luttwak writes, "If there were such a thing as naval strategy or air strategy or nuclear strategy in any sense other than a conflation of the technical, tactical, or operational levels of the same universal strategy, then each should have its own peculiar logic."47 A theory of spacepower should not claim such a "peculiar logic," and the foundations for this theory should be cognizant and respectful of a superior and overarching logic of strategy. Sir Julian Corbett wrote of the purpose of theory in strategy: [open quote] It is a process by which we co-ordinate our ideas, define the meaning of the words we use, grasp the difference between essential and unessential factors, and fix and expose the fundamental data on which every one is agreed. In this way we prepare the apparatus of practical discussion; we secure the means of arranging the factors in manageable shape, and of deducing from them with precision and rapidity a practical course of action. Without such an apparatus no two men can even think on the same line; much less can they ever hope to detach the real point of difference that divides them and isolate it for quiet solution.48 [unquote] Given the relative infancy of spacepower, it is important that sensible theoretical foundations be established. Spacepower has made itself ubiquitous in modern war and statecraft, yet discerning a strategic experience of spacepower has proved to be notoriously difficult. Over time, strategic experience will doubtless accumulate, and so eventually a comprehensive theory of spacepower will develop and evolve synergistically with its actual practice. Although spacepower is relatively new, the need for theory is not. As Corbett's thoughts suggest, a theory of spacepower should provide a common framework from which all can refer and a conceptual means by which spacepower is exploited to its full potential in order to attain policy objectives. Pragmatism That said, a theory of spacepower must guard against a creeping inflexibility and orthodoxy that stifle innovative thinking or constructive criticism. It will evolve along with its actual use, and it may be found that some tenets of spacepower thought are in fact wrong. A theory of space-power must also guard against flights of fancy and overactive imaginations that make theory useless as a guide to practice. Spacepower could be especially susceptible to such problems given that it is, conceptually, a blank canvas and is bound up for many people with science fiction. Spacepower is not science fiction, and its intellectual guardians, the theorists, much like the protagonists in the "widening gyre" of W.B. Yeats's "The Second Coming" who are either "lacking all conviction" or are "full of passionate intensity,"49 must take care to protect it from the ignorance of some and the worst excesses of others. Theorists of spacepower, and practitioners who would read such theory, must always be mindful of the fact that strategy "is nothing if not pragmatic," and that "strategic theory is a theory for action."50 A theory of spacepower that is disrespectful of the practicalities of spaceflight and orbitology, the limits of technology, and the eternal, universal workings of strategy could be worse than useless; it could be dangerous. The Nature of Spacepower To repeat, spacepower is not beyond the logic of strategy, nor can it be. Strategy is eternal in its nature and logic, and while the grammar and character of strategy evolve because of changes in their many dimensions such as society, politics, and technology, strategy's fundamental nature does not. Spacepower is subject to the nature of strategy and always will be. The nature of spacepower is simply the ability to use space for political purposes, and that too will never change. John G. Fox is only partially correct when he states, "The nature and character of space warfare 50 years from now may be wholly unrecognizable to those of us alive today."51 Fox is probably correct in that the character of spacepower will change over the next 50 years, due perhaps to unforeseen technological developments. He is wrong, however, to state that the nature of spacepower is changeable; it is not. So long as humankind possesses the ability to exploit the space environment, then the nature of spacepower is immutable and impervious to societal, political, economic, technological, or any other kind of change.</span>

<span class="Underline">Reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees space conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">We have arrived at what will undoubtedly be the most controversial part of this chapter, wherein we discuss spacepower and its nexus with warfare. It is controversial only because space has yet to be overtly weaponized or generally recognized as an arena of open combat. Many, if not most, want to keep it a weapons-free peaceful sanctuary, particularly the suprastate actors. Just because all other media are weaponized and used as arenas of combat does not mean that space will automatically follow suit.19 Perhaps this generation will figure out how to keep the beast of war in chains short enough to prevent it from going to space. But the next (and each succeeding) generation must also keep the chains short. Unfortunately, the constant march of technology is making space more important to states at the same time it is making it easier to build space weapons. In anticipating the future of spacepower for theoretical discussion, we can do little more than extract a roadmap from the history of human activity and extrapolate forward. The preponderance of evidence suggests that space will be no different than air, land, and sea regarding warfare. In the words of Colin Gray: [quote] It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21 [unquote] […continues…] There are many good reasons for not putting weapons in space for the purpose of space attack. Among them are the enormous expenses of putting them in space and their vulnerability once there if they are left undefended. But there is a paradoxical logic to warfare that increases the likelihood of someone actually doing it: Because there are many good reasons not to put weapons in space, putting weapons in space makes little sense; no one is expecting weapons in space; therefore, an actor achieves the element of surprise by putting weapons in space! </span>

<span class="Underline">Advantage of space weaponization makes it inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) Note: the first two sentences are myths the authors intend to refute</span>
<span class="Underline">Space is too vast to be controlled. If one state weaponizes, then all other states will follow suit, and a crippling arms race in space will ensue. Space is indeed vast, but a quick analysis of the fundamentals of space terrain and geography shows that control of just LEO would be tantamount to a global gate or checkpoint for entrance into space, a position that could not be flanked and would require an incredible exertion of military power to dislodge. Thus, the real question quickly becomes not whether the United States should weaponize space first, but whether it can afford to be the second to weaponize space. Space has been dubbed the ultimate high ground (see figure 19–2). As with the high ground throughout history, whosoever sits ensconced upon it accrues incredible benefit on the terrestrial battlefield. This comes from the dual advantages of enhanced span of command acuity (visibility and control) and kinetic power. It is simply easier and more powerful to shoot down the hill than up it. The pace of technological development, particularly in microsatellites and networked operations, could allow a major spacefaring state to quickly establish enough independent kinetic kill vehicles in LEO (through multiple payload launches) to effectively deny entry or transit to any other state. Currently, the United States has the infrastructure and capacity to do so; China may in the very near future. Russia is also a potential candidate for a space coup. Should any one of these states put enough weapons in orbit, they could engage and shoot down attempts to place counterspace assets in orbit, effectively taking control of outer space. Indeed, the potential to be gained from ensuring spacepower projection while denying that capability in others is so great that some state, some day, will make the attempt. Figure 19–2. Gravitational Terrain of Earth-Moon Space In order to ensure that no one tries, space weapons opponents argue that the best defense is a good example. So long as the United States does not make any effort to weaponize space, why would any competing state be tempted to do so? And even if another state does attempt it, the United States has the infrastructure to quickly follow suit and commence a campaign of retrieval in space. Not only does the logic escape us, but also it seems that by waiting, the United States is guaranteeing what space weapons opponents fear most: a space arms race. </span>


<span class="Underline">It’s happening now – there are multiple military challengers to US space superiority</span>
<span class="Underline">Gopalaswamy and Wang 10 [Bharath-Senior Research Scholar @ Cornell University, defense fellow @ the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, PhD in Mechanical Engineering, Ting-Post doc fellow @ the Judith V Reppy Center for Space and Conflict Studies, Cornell University, Science Direct, “The Science and Politics of an Indian ASAT Capability”]</span>
<span class="Underline">The revolution in military affairs has compelled actors such as China, Russia, and the USA to emphasize the use of space to support national security in their military doctrines, and thus space assets have become a critical component of their national security infrastructures. In particular, space support for defence operations on the ground has long been established. Worldwide spending for ground support is estimated at billions of dollars for programmes that provide military attack warning, communications, weather forecasting, reconnaissance and weapons guidance applications.1 Spending on these types of programmes by nations such as India, China, France, Germany, Israel, Italy and Spain is increasing; security being the main driver. In the absence of dedicated military satellites, these actors are resorting to using their civilian space satellites for applications such as communications, imagery, etc.2 With the increased emphasis on the military uses of space has come an interest in anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons. Speaking in early 2010, Indian Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik argued for the development of an Indian anti-satellite missile system. “Our satellites are vulnerable to ASAT weapon systems because our neighborhood possesses one,” Naik said while delivering the Air Chief Marshal L.M. Katre memorial lecture. He underlined the need for India to develop ASAT technology and referred to it as “one of our challenges of future war capability.”3 In this paper we analyse the context in which India must decide on pursuing an ASAT capability and the implications of such a decision for Indian security. The growing military use of space has increased the probability that satellites will be targeted should a conflict break out. In January 2007 China became the third country (after the USA and Russia) to test an ASAT weapon. The large debris field created by the Chinese test underlined the potential for a conflict in space to damage the commercial space activities and long-term economic interests of both combatant and non-combatant countries. Although this debris issue has achieved a reasonable amount of publicity in India, Indian officials have been putting greater public emphasis on developing their own hit-to-kill capabilities and, particularly in the past few months, have been quite open in calling for India to develop its own ASAT weapons.4 Given India’s extensive commitments to space activities, its concerns regarding a demonstrated Chinese ASAT capability may be legitimate and justifiable. However, it is important to assess whether a response in kind is an appropriate one. Over the past 20 years, the use of outer space has both increased and changed dramatically. From the dawn of the Space Age to the end of the Cold War Russia and the USA were the world’s only major space powers. However, in recent years the accessibility of space has increased and continues to increase, with new states building satellites, developing launchers and starting space agencies. The 2010 Space Security Index reports that, as of 2009, almost 10 countries have independent orbital launch capabilities, and around 60 nations have assets in space.5 India’s interests in space are manifold and it can be classified as a country that relies heavily on space. In the field of telecommunications and broadcasting the liberalization policies adopted by the Indian government have expanded the role of the private sector in telecommunications and broadcasting, thus increasing the number of stakeholders in the field of space technology. Among India’s substantial investments in space are the 11 INSAT (Indian Satellite) satellites with 211 transponders for broadcasting and communications. These satellites are the mainstay for television broadcasting and provide connectivity to more than 1100 TV transmitters.6 They also provide rural area communications, business communication, and tele-education and telemedicine services. The INSAT satellites include very high resolution radiometers for producing cyclone warnings, gathering meteorological data, assisting emergency communication for weather forecasting, providing support during disasters and aiding search and rescue missions. The eight-satellite Indian Remote Sensing system (IRS) comprises some of the best satellites in the world for generating information on natural resources. Data from the IRS satellites are used for a variety of applications such as drought monitoring, flood-risk zone mapping, urban planning, forest survey, environmental impact analysis and coastal studies. Investments in space have a major economic impact for India and, considering India’s recent rise in economic and political might, it is quite logical to expect that its ambitions and investments in space will only continue to rise. The first Gulf war demonstrated that space is indispensable to the military. The space systems acquired by the USA during the 1970s and 1980s proved their worth in the Persian Gulf during the 1990 and 1991 Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. Lieutenant General Donald L. Cromer, at the time Commander of Space Systems Division of the Air Force Systems Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, pointed out that Desert Storm was the first space war – the first war in which space systems were used by operational commanders and integrated into their daily decision-making processes. This, in turn, influenced the attitude of military leaders towards space. Previously, said General Cromer, “…space people used to be pushed off to the side. We had to fight for everything. We had neither understanding nor strong support for all the things that space could do for the Air Force.” As a result of Desert Shield/Desert Storm, however, commanders acquired a new appreciation of the value of space systems. In the general’s words, “Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm will be a watershed for recognizing that space is as much a part of the Air Force and military infrastructure as the airplanes, tanks and the ships…. All future wars will be planned and executed with that in mind.”7 That said, the rapidly increasing dependency on space during war time requires a correspondingly rapid increase in capabilities.</span>

<span class="Underline">Specifically, the US and China are headed for a war over space despite rapprochement elsewhere – both sides understand the benefits of space control</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, PhD, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">The coming war with China will be fought for control of outer space. The stakes are high. The side that prevails will have a clear path to domination of the international system. Although its effects will be far-reaching, the conflict itself will not be visible to those looking up into the night sky. It will not be televised. Most will not even be aware that it is occurring. It may already have begun. And yet, this new kind of remotely-controlled proxy war will not be so different that it is unrecognizable. The principles of war and the logic of competition remain as they always have. Only the context has changed. When perceived through this mind-set, via the tenets of traditional realist and geopolitical theories that have survived millennia in their basic forms, the unavoidable conclusion is that the United States and the People’s Republic of China are on a collision course for war. Such determinist theory is quickly countered by those who find its implications abhorrent. Inevitability is a crass and unsubtle divination. Because a thing has always happened does not mean that it always will. Nor does the reverse hold—because a thing has never happened does not mean that it cannot be so. The realist paradigm of power politics does not have to hold sway. The cruelly consistent narrative of history need not be eternally retold. Nothing is inevitable, counter the idealists. The world can be made different, the world today is different. 1 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1676919 The power of possibility is tantalizing, but the brusque strength of probability, for a decision maker, usually holds sway. The past foreshadows the future—and it is the calculation of probability over time combined with risk that is more persuasive than platitudes. If an event is likely, its outcome perceptible, and its influence measurable, the prudent state must make preparations to mitigate its effects. If an event is unlikely, even if its impact is serious, actions necessary to mitigate it are often deferred to the future—though this form of political gambling tends to magnify the deleterious effects of the event when it eventually comes to pass. If the state’s sovereignty is at risk, however, no matter how unlikely the event, it must be dealt with directly. On the surface, it may seem as though geopolitical forces are currently in dynamic balance. The US is the overwhelming sea and air power, offensively oriented and favoring maneuver and precision strike for advantage in war. The PRC is potentially the greatest land power the world has ever known, defensively established and reliant on masses of infantry as its core strength. Neither has a globally significant advantage vis-à-vis the other. There is no plausible near-term scenario in which the US could invade and sustain an occupation of the Chinese mainland. Likewise, the US is currently impervious to any invasion and occupation by Chinese forces. Neither state’s sovereignty appears in doubt due to actions by the other. At the level of grand strategy neither mass or maneuver, offense or defense, has a transformational advantage. From this perspective, war, inevitable though it may be, is not imminent. Less venerable theories of conflict and cooperation are more favorable toward long-term peace. Economically, the US and PRC are tightly bound. Chinese markets are opening and the productivity of PRC manufacturing has allowed the US to move into a post-industrial economy. Trade is increasing substantially, and much of America’s foreign debt is held by China, to the point that it is not to either state’s fiscal advantage to engage in a conflict that will sever or (even just weaken) these ties. Culturally and historically, the Chinese and American people are inclined toward mutual admiration and respect. Despite the political differences between Chinese Communism and Western Liberal Democratic Capitalism, human connections and government rapprochement are valued by both sides. An appreciation of American 2 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1676919 technological innovation and Chinese work and spiritual ethics imbues the still-developing relationship. Both sides seem willing to work together and sustain a world system in which each nation-state has its place and its independence. In every sphere but one, it seems, the two great powers are building toward peace. In every sphere of competition, with one exception, there is room for negotiation and mutually beneficial outcomes. That one incompatible, uncompromising realm is outer space. A Twenty-First Century Great Wall in Space: No state relies on space power and space support more than the US. Since at least the mid 1980s, its armed forces have undergone a radical transformation. Space intelligence and observations, high bandwidth communications, and navigation support have created the most deadly combat force in history. America can engage targets anywhere in the world, in all weather, day or night, with extraordinary precision and lethality, and with a minimum of collateral damage. The progress of this transformation has been stymied with the continuing emphasis on ground forces occupation duties in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the American military is operating more effectively and efficiently today with the smallest percentage of its population actively engaged in military service since the post-WWII demobilization. Just over two years ago—and perhaps again earlier this year as part of a ballistic missile defense system test—China successfully engaged one of its own derelict satellites in space. This was an extraordinarily provocative action. The United States simply has no defense against such a capability, and China’s anti-satellite (ASAT) test was intended to remind the world of this weakness. Moreover, its use of an MRBM (which the PRC produces in mass) to propel the kill vehicle indicates a potential ASAT weapons capability sufficient to target the entire US low earth orbit inventory. The US responded in kind, engaging and destroying one of its own de-orbiting satellites with a modified surface-to-air missile interceptor launched from an Aegis cruiser. While this response demonstrated an enhanced American capability to engage low-earth orbiting (LEO) satellites 3 from a mobile platform, the message sent was straight-forward. There is no current defense against a satellite attack, and the only option available to US or PRC strategists is retaliation. If deterrence fails, LEO will become a global no-fly zone. Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively. China’s ultimate goal appears to be to assert its regional supremacy and achieve co-equal (if not dominant) status as a global power. Control of space is a critical step in that direction. Without its eyes and ears in space to provide warning and real-time intelligence, the United States would be in a painfully awkward situation should the PRC put direct military pressure on Taiwan. A robust space program, aimed at achieving dominance in LEO, prompts a comparison to traditional large-scale government projects in China. Its monumental Great Wall was intended to keep the barbarians out, and while never impermeable, when fully manned it stymied the mobile bands of steppe cavalry that had pillaged northern regions for centuries. But defense was only one of its purposes. Such works were needed to enhance security and also to bolster trade and spur economic growth. In turn, these massive public works gave legitimacy to the ruling power. Awe-inspiring achievements were a source of pride, and clear evidence of the superiority of the state. Moreover, they were a way to slough off excess economic capacity, keeping the population industriously engaged while limiting the amount of capital that could be accumulated by private interests. China’s current space program is readily imagined as a New Age Great Wall. Competing with the West in the highest technological endeavors, and doing so despite significant capital disparities, enhances the legitimacy of the communist party. China’s domestic population rationalizes lower per capita income as the state completes its rise among nations to superpower status. International audiences are awed by the accomplishments, conveying further legitimacy to the state. They acknowledge China’s domestic right to self-determination, but more importantly give credence to the capacity of Chinese manufacturing to produce quality high technology goods. This perception helps to increase the sale of advanced Chinese made products abroad. 4 While its comprehensive space program enhances foreign and domestic perceptions of legitimacy, and raises awareness of Chinese industrial and manufacturing acumen, its military space efforts directly threaten the relatively stable international system. It is this latter issue that presents a wicked problem for strategists. Western Action / Eastern Timing: The Western mind sees transparency and openness as the surest way to peace. When one state can effectively monitor another, fears of surprise attack are mitigated and the tendency to overestimate a potential opponent’s capacities and intentions are minimized. With transparency, the security dilemma is obviated and cooperation is possible. But transparency as a confidence-building measure is a purely Western mode of thought. To an Eastern strategist, the idea that an opponent might know precisely one’s strengths and weaknesses merely invites attack. The key to stability in this view is uncertainty—not knowing how strong or how weak an opponent is, and never, under any circumstances, revealing one’s own intentions and capacities. The more sure the knowledge, the more crafty the countervailing plan, the more likely its success. Hence the essential disconnect between West and East in the conduct of war is in the difference between action and timing. The Western strategist seeks to force change through positive steps. Analyses focus on the likely response to specific events, and assessments of whether more or less force is necessary to accomplish change. The future is constructed wholly through the effort and interplay of action. Lao Tsu said, when describing a ceramic storage jar, it is the clay that gives the jar its shape, but it is the hole that is its purpose. Therefore, he insisted, utility is determined from what there is, but value and meaning derive from what there is not. And so it is in the distinction between West and East, between a tactically dominant mindset and a strategy-dominant one. The former concerns itself with reality, in determining what is. From this comes utility. Strategy is instead a search for what there is not, for what there could be. Tactics seeks solutions, the end 5 state of thought. Victory is sufficient in itself. Strategy seeks questions, the commencement of thought. For the strategist, an answer is the debarkation point for a better question. Victory and defeat are understood in the aggregate, merely as pebbles on a long and endless path. Just as the one is meaningless without the other—each is a necessary part of the definition—a combination of utility and value, tactics and strategy, is vital to our view of and place in the world. In the Western way of War, tacticians-cum-strategists traditionally match means to ends so to maximize utility. In such a worldview, utility is efficiency-maximizing, and the most cost effective matches of available means to ends results in victory. In the Eastern Tao of War, strategists prepare for and await the moment of advantage. Through intense study, preparation and training, and patience, victory emerges. In this essay I describe the dialectic of tactics and strategy, and the linkage between them called operations. It requires a rather counter-intuitive foundation—Lao Tsu’s jar. To the Eastern strategist, proper war-making is a matter of timing. Balance of force is a not a single calculation, but a continuing one. Power is a function of capabilities, position, and morale—just as it is in the West—but it is predicated on the interplay of numerous immutable and sometimes unknowable forces. Structure dominates agency. Rather than force a change through positive actions, the Eastern strategist bides time until the moment to strike is ripe. Indeed, the gardening analogy is a strong one in Chinese military writings. No matter how much effort one puts into growing a crop—in learning how to garden, preparing the soil, and tending the plants—there is no benefit in harvesting too early or too late. Patience is the preeminent military virtue. When Chinese generals are told that their advantage is in long-term planning, they are liable to chuckle. “I do not know what will happen tomorrow,” he or she will respond, “how can I know what will happen in years or decades?” What the Eastern strategist does is study, prepare, and wait. Through study and reflection, the strategist learns about the opponent’s forces and one’s own, as well as the terrain, technologies, and socio-political contexts that shift in time. Through preparation and training, military forces required by the strategist are available when needed. By awaiting the proper moment for action, success is guaranteed. 6 Western hubris and Eastern inscrutability thus dominate their security relations. When Douglas MacArthur famously stated there is no substitute for victory, he was affirming an agent centered dictum. His meaning was clear. Who prevails in war need make no excuses for the manner in which the battles were fought. History is written by the victor. Alternatively, when Sun Tsu claimed the acme of skill is to win without fighting, he did not refer to a passive or inactive strategy. He averred that following the study-prepare-wait model one comes into a position where the outcome is obvious to all parties, and a capable opponent will choose to negotiate the best terms rather than fight to a foregone and disastrous conclusion. To contrast then merge the disparate perceptions, I turn to a deep-rooted if not quite venerable mode of analysis. </span>

<span class="Underline">China is realist and wants hegemony – internal and external motivations</span>
<span class="Underline">Yuan-Kang Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Western Michigan University, CNAPS Taiwan Fellow. July 2006. (THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION. http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/wang2006.pdf )</span>
<span class="Underline">Studies have shown that China has been acting like a realist power on the world stage and, in the words of Thomas Christensen, “may well be the high church of realpolitik in the post-Cold War world.”7 Chinese analysts frequently write in terms of power and are skeptical of the idea of humanitarian intervention and promotion of democracy. The Chinese government is known to conduct business with states, such as Sudan, Zimbabwe, and others, whose internal governance is questionable by international standards, and it avoids commenting on or attempting to alter those governments’ internal or external behaviors. Hence, to study China’s grand strategy, realism provides a useful starting point. The realist theory of international relations predicts that the long-term objective of China’s grand strategy is to be the dominant power in Asia. In a world in which no central authority exists to protect states from aggression, a great power will strive to amass more power relative to others and attempt to dominate the system—regional or global—so that it has the capability to set the agenda and dictate the “rules of the game.” In an anarchic world, prudence dictates that states not base their security on other nations’ assurances of benign intentions.8 After all, intentions are difficult to fathom and, even if known, can change in the future. Uncertainty about intentions—an enduring feature of the anarchic system—pushes states to aim for domination. The benefits of being the world’s strongest state are tremendous. Such a state enjoys not only a broader set of foreign policy options, but is also more capable of protecting its vital interests and consequently has the best chance of survival. Once a state has achieved that preeminent position, it will strive to prevent potential rivals from challenging its dominance.9 China’s modern history attests to Thucydides’s observation about power: “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.”10 The Qing Dynasty’s relative weaknesses in the nineteenth century enabled the Western powers and Japan to encroach upon China’s sovereignty and territorial interests, causing the infamous “century of humiliation.” To free the country from further suffering, generations of Chinese leaders since the Opium War in 1839 have endeavored to rebuild a powerful nation. They understood that in international politics weakness invites aggression, and strength begets security. The desire for a strong country was a major reason that Dr. Sun Yat-sen led the revolution to overthrow the Qing Dynasty and establish the Republic of China in 1912. Later on, Chiang Kai-shek continued the agenda of building a strong China but was thwarted by Japanese invasion. In 1949, Mao Zedong, emerging as the victor in the Chinese civil war, proclaimed atop the Tiananmen Square: “The Chinese people have stood up!” It is hardly surprising that New China was a revisionist state bent on changing the balance of power in its favor. China’s century of humiliation demonstrated to the CCP leadership that power is the key to state survival.11 Thus, “strong country” (qiangguo) is a constant theme of contemporary Chinese statecraft and an aspiration of the populace. As one of China’s leading experts of foreign affairs notes, having the status of a great power brings “confidence and dignity to billions of Chinese people, significantly reduces the likelihood of China being suppressed or bullied by today’s superpower, significantly alleviates the potential and actual threats posed by countries hostile to China, significantly helps China secure the cooperation and support of other countries (including other great powers) and more effectively maintain and pursue the international interests that China deserves.”12 But how strong should China be? There is no clear answer in the policy and academic communities in China. The official mission of the Chinese Communist Party calls for “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” (zhonghua minzu weida fuxing), as reiterated nine times in former General Secretary Jiang Zemin’s report to the 16th Party Congress in 2002. But this does not answer the question of how much power is enough. The writings of Chinese analysts are also unclear about how much power the country should eventually possess.13 Does China wish to revive its status as the dominant power in Asia? Most agree that China should become a “world great power” (shijie daguo), but do not specify whether China should be “first among equals” or just equal.14 Some suggest that China should play a “dominant” (zhudao) role in regional, if not global, affairs, and should “reshape” (chongshu) a world order that better suits Chinese interests.15 Others put forth a somewhat qualified view and suggest that China should play a preeminent role in regional security affairs, with global economic interests, but should not become a global military power.16 This lack of clarity in Chinese writings is hardly surprising, considering that the mantra of China’s foreign policy since 1949 has been opposition to any forms of power politics and hegemonism—not to mention that China does not yet have the capability to assume the leading role in Asian affairs. To learn about the future direction of China’s strategic objectives, I turn to realism for guidance. Therefore, my claim about China’s long-term objective of regional primacy is a theory-based inference. Pax Americana and Pax Sinica The explanatory (and predictive) power of realist theory can be illustrated by examples from both America’s and China’s own histories. Consider today’s reigning superpower—the United States. Since the first days of U.S. independence, American leaders have consciously sought to build a country dominant in the Western Hemisphere—in the words of John Quincy Adams in 1811 before he became president, “a nation, coextensive with the North American continent, destined by God and nature to be the most populous and most powerful people ever combined under one social compact.”17 Manifest Destiny aside, in 1823 the United States announced the Monroe Doctrine to prevent European powers from meddling in its backyard. Clearly, American leaders understood that its security would be best served by becoming the hegemonic power in the Western Hemisphere. As U.S. power grew in the twentieth century, its policy transmuted: deny other powers the possibility of becoming hegemon in any other region. “The interest of the United States of America,” declared President John F. Kennedy in 1963, “is best served by preserving and protecting a world of diversity in which no one power or no one combination of powers can threaten the security of the United States.”18 The White House’s National Security Strategy of 2002 explicitly states: “Our forces will be strong enough to dissuade potential adversaries from pursuing a military build-up in hopes of surpassing, or equaling, the power of the United States.”19 Similarly, the Pentagon’s Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) of 2006 states that the United States will “seek to ensure that no foreign power can dictate the terms of regional or global security. It will attempt to dissuade any military competitor from developing disruptive or other capabilities that could enable regional hegemony….”20 Thus, as realist theory predicts, American foreign policy aims to preserve its global dominance and prevent the rise of a regional hegemon in Europe or Asia. Such a regional hegemon could challenge America’s interests and threaten its security. Liberals and realists alike generally agree on this strategic goal. Joseph S. Nye, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, argues that maintaining regional stability and “deterring the rise of hegemonic forces” constitutes the rationale for stationing American troops in East Asia.21 Along the same line, Samuel Huntington argues: “A world without U.S. primacy will be a world with more violence and disorder.”22 Furthermore, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger emphasizes that “it is in the American national interest to resist the effort of any power to dominate Asia.”23 For most Americans, the United States should maintain a preponderant position in global affairs and prevent the emergence of a hostile hegemon in Eurasia that could threaten American security. As Stephen Walt notes, “one would be hard pressed to find a prominent U.S. politician who would openly endorse anything less than the continuation of the nation’s dominance.”24 The same realist logic that led the U.S. to attain and maintain the status of regional hegemon in the Western Hemisphere motivated China’s regional strategy over many centuries. Throughout most of history, China was the regional hegemon in East Asia. The Middle Kingdom was the most powerful state in the region and was able to set the rules for trade and tribute with neighboring and even faraway states. Chinese dominance was expressed through a tribute system that required regional states to acknowledge Chinese supremacy and accept their inferior status as vassals. Their envoys brought tribute to the Chinese court and performed certain rituals, including the kowtow, to symbolize their submission to the emperor. In return, they were lavished with a much higher value of Chinese goods and luxuries such as silk, tea, treasures, and agricultural products. The vassal states were required to adopt the Chinese calendar, and their rulers were enfeoffed by the Chinese emperor. They could also call for Chinese help if attacked. By paying tribute and receiving Chinese goods and culture, it was hoped, the foreigners would be transformed into civilized peoples and would not be a threat to China. In this sense, the tribute system served as a “defense mechanism” to protect China from foreign attacks.25 Many scholars consider Imperial China’s tribute system voluntary and peaceful. China specialists frequently use the tribute system to argue that the Chinese world order was a benign one, and that China has not historically followed the dictates of realism.26 A careful look at Chinese history, however, reveals a different story. First, Chinese statecraft was not as benign (or non-coercive) as is often depicted in the Sinocentric literature. Although those who accepted Chinese suzerainty were granted tributary trade privileges, those who did not “were defined as inhuman, therefore deserving extermination,” in the words of historian Peter Purdue. In the seemingly pacific tribute system, “the iron fist always was held in reserve behind the smooth ritual mask.”27 Second, the bedrock of the tribute system was Chinese power. When China was powerful, it was able to preserve and protect the tribute system. When China was in decline, its ability to maintain the system dropped in tandem.28 For instance, in the sixteenth century, as the Mongol threat mounted, the declining Ming China was forced to watch helplessly as its tributary state of Hami in Inner Asia fell prey to the nearby state of Turfan. Frequently overlooked in the tribute system literature is that, for three hundred years, the weaker Song Dynasty (960-1279) had to pay tribute to a more powerful adversary in northern China and grudgingly accepted China’s inferior status. Third, security through expansion was not uncommon in Chinese history. For example, Han China conquered the Korean state of Choson around 108 BC and established four commanderies on the peninsula. Tang China expanded into Korea by conquering Koguryo in 668. In the south, the Han, Tang, and Ming dynasties conquered and reconquered the northern part of Vietnam and incorporated it into the imperial administrations. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Qing China under the Manchus was an expansionist power bent on dominating Asia.29 Finally, in addition to viewing the tribute system through a Chinese lens, analysts would benefit from the viewpoints of those at the receiving end of Chinese power—the tributary states. These states’ understanding of the tribute system was different from Chinese interpretation. Since Chinese return of goods was usually in excess of the tribute, the vassal states saw this as payment for their cooperation. As historian Henry Serryus aptly observes of Sino-Mongol relations during the Ming Dynasty, “the Mongols thought of the tribute system as a tribute paid to them, not the other way about.”30 This depiction of the Sinocentric order undoubtedly differs in culture and form from Pax Americana as well as other regional hegemonic systems. They share a core element, however: a recognition that security is best ensured by becoming the most powerful state in their region. The regional hegemon can dictate the boundaries of acceptable behavior and possesses the means to enforce them, if necessary, by the threat or use of force. Neither American nor Chinese leaders would prefer to see their nations overshadowed by a stronger great power next door. </span>

<span class="Underline">China is rapidly militarizing space and will surpass the US – this destroys hegemony</span>
<span class="Underline">Blanchard, 7/11/11 – Ben Blanchard is a Reuters correspondent based in Beijing, cites a report by the Journal of Strategic Studies [Reuters, “China ramps up military use of space with new satellites-report”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/12/china-satellites-idUSL3E7I902220110712]</span>
<span class="Underline">(Reuters) - China is developing cutting-edge satellites that will allow it to project power far beyond its shores and deter the United States from using aircraft carriers in any future conflict over its rival Taiwan, a report said. The piece in October's Journal of Strategic Studies, a U.K.-published defence and security journal, runs at odds with China's stated opposition to the militarization of space. But the report, an advance copy of which was obtained by Reuters, said that the rapid development of advanced reconnaissance satellites to enable China to track hostile forces in real time and guide ballistic missiles has become a key to the modernisation of its forces. While the United States used to be unrivaled in this area, China is catching up fast, it added. "China's constellation of satellites is transitioning from the limited ability to collect general strategic information, into a new era in which it will be able to support tactical operations as they happen," the report said. "China may already be able to match the United States' ability to image a known, stationary target and will likely surpass it in the flurry of launches planned for the next two years." Beijing has consistently denied it has anything other than peaceful plans for space and says its growing military spending and prowess are for defensive purposes and modernisation of outdated forces. But with the recent unveiling of a stealth fighter, the expected launch of its first aircraft carriers and more aggressive posture over territorial disputes such as one in the South China Sea, Beijing has rattled nerves regionally and globally. China's space program has come a long way since late leader Mao Zedong, who founded Communist China in 1949, lamented that the country could not even launch a potato into space. Since then, it has launched men into orbit and brought them home, sent out its first lunar probe and begun longer-term programmes to explore Mars and establish a space station. The successful missile "kill" of an old satellite in early 2007 represented a new level of ability for the Chinese military, and last year China successfully tested emerging technology aimed at destroying missiles in mid-air. U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned earlier this year that advances by China's military in cyber and anti-satellite warfare technology could challenge the ability of U.S. forces to operate in the Pacific. "STRATEGICALLY DISQUIETING" China's need to use satellites to up its military game became apparent during the 1995-96 Taiwan Straits crisis, when the U.S. dispatched a carrier group after China menaced the self-ruled island with war games, the report said. Beijing realised it could neither track nor respond to the U.S. ships. The incident also led China to realise it needed the means to keep Washington from using its navy to intervene in a war over Taiwan. Beijing regards the island as a rebel province. "The most immediate and strategically disquieting application (of reconnaissance satellites) is a targeting and tracking capability in support of the anti-ship ballistic missile, which could hit U.S. carrier groups," the report said. "But China's growing capability in space is not designed to support any single weapon; instead it is being developed as a dynamic system, applicable to other long-range platforms. With space as the backbone, China will be able to expand the range of its ability to apply force while preserving its policy of not establishing foreign military bases." More broadly speaking, satellites will be able to help China project power. "As China's capabilities grow, with space reconnaissance as an example, it will be increasingly hard to reconcile the rhetoric of a defensive posture and a more expansive capability." (Editing by Brian Rhoads and Yoko Nishikawa) </span>

===<span class="Underline">1AC Link</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Space challenges will collapse hegemony and cause war. Weaponizing now locks in heg.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">Almost 2,500 years ago, Thucydides foresaw the inevitability of a disastrous Peloponnesian war due to “the rising power of Athens and the fear it caused in Sparta.” Indeed, whenever an extant international order is challenged by a rising power, the dominant power in the system is obligated to respond. Such conditions are relatively rare in history, but when they occur, the resulting war is not for minor spoils or border modifications, but for leadership of a new world order. It is a great war, a hegemonic war. This is the context in which the world now exists. The relatively stable global hegemony of US dominance since 1945, punctuated by limited wars and shifting balances of opposition, has relied on technology-dominant global power projection. Today, that technology is wholly integrated and inextricable from space support, and no state relies more on space power for its economic and security well-being than the US. Any effort to deny space capabilities would be a direct challenge to its hegemonic power, and the United States must confront the usurper or abdicate its leadership position. To be sure, China’s increasing space emphasis and its cultural antipathy to military transparency suggests that a serious attempt at seizing control of space is in the works. A lingering fear is the sudden introduction of an unknown capability (call it Technology X) that would allow a hostile state to place multiple weapons into orbit quickly and cheaply. The advantages gained from controlling the high ground of space would accrue to it as surely as to any other state, and the concomitant loss of military power from the denial of space to America’s already-dependent military forces could cause the immediate demise of the extant international system. The longer the United States dithers on its military responsibilities, the more likely a potential opponent could seize low-earth orbit before America is able to respond. And in such circumstances, the US certainly would respond. Conversely, if America were to weaponize space, it is not at all sure that any other state or group of states would find it rational to counter in kind. The entry cost to provide the necessary infrastructure is still too high—hundreds of billions of dollars, at minimum. The years of investment needed to achieve a 29 comparable counter-force capability—essentially from scratch—would provide more than ample time for the United States to entrench itself in space and readily counter preliminary efforts to displace it. The tremendous effort in time and resources would be worse than wasted. Most states, if not all, would opt not to counter US deployments directly. They might oppose American interests with asymmetric balancing, depending on how aggressively it uses its new power, but the likelihood of a hemorrhaging arms race in space should the United States deploy weapons first—at least for the next few years—is remote. This reasoning does not dispute the fact that US deployment of weapons in outer space would represent the addition of a potent new military capacity, one that would assist in extending the current period of American hegemony well into the future. Clearly this would be intimidating, and America must expect severe condemnation and increased competition in peripheral areas. But such an outcome is less threatening than another, particularly non-liberal authoritarian state doing so, as the necessity of a response in kind is compelling. Placement of weapons in space by the United States would be perceived correctly as an attempt at continuing American hegemony. Although there is obvious opposition to the current international balance of power, the majority of states seem to regard it as at least tolerable. A continuation of the status quo is thus minimally acceptable, even to states working toward its demise. As long as the United States does not employ its power arbitrarily, the situation would be bearable initially and grudgingly accepted over time. Mirror-imaging does not apply here. An attempt by China to dominate space would be part of an effort to break the land-sea-air dominance of the United States in preparation for a new international order. Such an action would challenge the status quo, rather than seek to perpetuate it. This would be disconcerting to nations that accept, no matter how grudgingly, the current international order—including the venerable institutions of trade, finance, and law that operate within it—and intolerable to the United States. As leader of the current system, the United States could do no less than engage in a perhaps ruinous space arms race, save graciously decide to step aside and accept a diminished world status. 30 Seizing the initiative and securing low-Earth orbit now, while the United States is dominant in space infrastructure, would do much to stabilize the international system and prevent an arms race in space. The enhanced ability to deny any attempt by another nation to place military assets in space and to readily engage and destroy terrestrial anti-satellite capacity would make the possibility of large-scale space war or military space races less likely, not more. Why would a state expend the effort to compete in space with a superpower that has the extraordinary advantage of holding securely the highest ground at the top of the gravity well? So long as the controlling state demonstrates a capacity and a will to use force to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a future war in space is remote. Moreover, if the United States were willing to deploy and use a military space force that maintained effective control of space, and did so in a way that was perceived as tough, non arbitrary, and efficient, such an action would serve to discourage competing states from fielding opposing systems. It could also set the stage for a new space regime, one that encourages space commerce and development. Should the United States use its advantage to police the heavens and allow unhindered peaceful use of space by any and all nations for economic and scientific development, over time its control of LEO could be viewed as a global public good. In much the same way the British maintained control of the high seas in the nineteenth century, enforcing international norms of innocent passage and property rights, and against slavery, the US could prepare outer space for a long-overdue burst of economic expansion. There is reasonable historic support for the notion that the most peaceful and prosperous periods in modern history coincide with the appearance of a strong, liberal hegemony. America has been essentially unchallenged in its naval dominance over the last 60 years and in global air supremacy for the last 15 or more. Today, there is more international commerce on the oceans and in the air than ever. Ships and aircraft of all nations worry more about running into bad weather than about being commandeered by a military vessel or set upon by pirates. Search and rescue is a far more common task for the Navy than forced embargo, and the transfer of 31 humanitarian aid is a regular mission. The legacy of American military domination of the sea and air has been positive, and the same should be expected for space. </span>

<span class="Underline">Space power has become as necessary force multiplier – it must be protected</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf) Note: the first sentence is a myth the authors intend to refute</span>
<span class="Underline">In 1991, U.S. forces defeated the world's fourth-largest military in just 10 days of ground combat. The Gulf War witnessed the public and operational debut of unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft employing stealth technology, and promising new missile interceptors. Arthur C. Clarke went so far as to dub Operation Desert Storm the world's first space war, as none of the accomplishments of America's new-look military would have been possible without support from space.6 Twelve years later, Operation Iraqi Freedom proved that the central role of spacepower could no longer be denied. America's military had made the transition from a space-supported to a fully space-enabled force, with astonishing results. The U.S. military successfully exercised most of its current spacepower functions, including space lift, command and control, rapid battle damage assessment, meteorological support, and timing and navigation techniques such as Blue Force tracking, which significantly reduced incidences of fratricide. The tremendous growth in reliance on space from Desert Storm to Iraqi Freedom is evident in the raw numbers. The use of operational satellite communications increased four-fold, despite being used to support a much smaller force (fewer than 200,000 personnel compared with more than 500,000). New operational concepts such as reach back (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) and reach forward (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) reconfigured the tactical concept of war. The value of Predator and Global Hawk unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), completely reliant on satellite communications and navigation for their operation, was confirmed. Satellite support also allowed Special Forces units to range across Iraq in extremely disruptive independent operations, practically unfettered in their silent movements. But the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all-weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America's striking power. Attacks from standoff platforms, including Vietnam-era B– 52s, allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low casualty rates and collateral damage. In Desert Storm, only 8 percent of munitions used were precisionguided, none of which were GPS-capable. By Iraqi Freedom, nearly 70 percent were precision-guided, more than half from GPS satellites.7 In Desert Storm, fewer than 5 percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By Iraqi Freedom, all were. During Desert Storm, GPS proved so valuable that the Army procured and rushed into theater more than 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of 1 per company (about 200 personnel). By Iraqi Freedom, each Army squad (6 to 10 Soldiers) had at least 1 military GPS receiver. If, as it has been said, the 1990 Gulf War was the first space war—the birth of military enhancement and enabling space capabilities that had long gestated in the role of mission support—then the twin Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom represent military spacepower's coming-out party. Space support enabled a level of precision, stealth, command and control, intelligence-gathering, speed, maneuverability, flexibility, and lethality heretofore unknown. U.S. combat capabilities were absolutely dominant in these conflicts—and the entire world now understands the significant military role played by space systems. </span>

<span class="Underline">Weaponizing is key to preserve space power</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">If space is a military domain, and I am convinced that it is, then it should follow this logic. A state that relies on military support from space—the effects it achieves from having assets in space—must plan to gain at least limited control of space in times of conflict. And, as is obvious from the description of analogous domains above, control is possible only from within the domain. If the state is unwilling to put weapons into space, then it cannot hope to ensure effects from space when another state attempts to contest its position. Its logical recourse is to wean itself quickly from space support, enhancement, and enablement, and move to a pre space military force structure. It must then stop wasting procurement money, production, and personnel on military space. If it is likely the military will fight without space support, then it should train to do so. The most efficient military in a space-denied environment will be the one 23 that does not require the use of space at all. Of course, if a military force is proficient in fighting without space, why should it spend scarce resources to organize, train, and equip itself to fight any other way? It is the height of folly for a commander to rely on a capacity that may or may not be available when needed. With military power preparing to fight without space, government funding for continuing military space support will be scaled back, and ultimately cut. Without a military presence to protect fragile space assets and ensure treaty compliance in space, along with drastic reductions in space industry as military contracts end, commercial space development will be drastically curtailed. It would be absolutely prudent to develop ground, sea, and air-based anti-space weapons, so that an opponent cannot use space freely against it, but to waste capital and effort on a nice-to-have capacity in space that is not needed to conduct operations on the earth would be ludicrous. Following this logic, denying oneself the capacity to put military force in space is tantamount to giving up on the military (and probably civil) value of space. Lao Tsu’s jar is broken. </span>

<span class="Underline">Proliferation of anti-access tech makes conventional power projection impossible</span>
<span class="Underline">Jim Thomas, Vice President for Studies @ Center For Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, ’10 [Center For a New American Security, “SHAPING THE AGENDA: AMERICAN NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE 21 ST CENTURY”. http://www.cnas.org/files/multimedia/documents/Future%20of%20the%20Force%20transcript.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">We see today that the military balance in the Western Pacific is eroding in particular driven by the modernization of the PLA’s force structure and military. Right now, the Department of Defense in particular – the services are looking at the development of a new concept commonly called air-sea battle. It’s referred to in the Quadrennial Defense Review to help to arrest this decline. But my argument today is that the growing anti-access and area denial threats we face today in the Western Pacific are only the first manifestation and that what we’re going to see is we’re going to see a maturation of the anti-access capabilities and we’re going to see their proliferation coupled with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. What I would argue is that we may in fact be entering what could be called the post-power projection era in which traditional modes of power projection may no longer be as viable as they’ve been in the recent past. This is not only going to be true at the high-end of conflict as we think on force engagements but as Peter noted, with the proliferation of both WMD and precision guided weapons, guided rockets, artillery, mortars and missiles, the kinds of capabilities we’re seeing show up in the hands of non-state actors like Hezbollah today. Countries like Iran, non-state actors, terrorist groups are acquiring the means necessary to complicate traditional power projection. What this means is it’s going to be harder for us to deploy into distant theaters against a range of potential adversaries to gain access in those theaters. It’s going to be harder for us to operate once we’re there, especially in traditional modes of operation and it’s going to be far harder to sustain logistically, with very long logistics tail stretching all the way back to the continental United States, those forward forces. CNAS published a great paper last year looking at the contested commons. And one of the things that’s really hallmark to U.S., for the U.S. military is the control of various domains, whether it’s sea control, space control, control of the air space over our force and over our allies and friends around the world, you name it.</span>

<span class="Underline">Space is the ultimate high ground. Plan results in domination of Earth and space.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10 [September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">As technology developed, the details of geostrategic theory morphed toward actionable decisions, but the essential logic persisted. Control the most vital locations and lines of communication (LOC) if possible, deny those advantages to an opponent. Similar arguments were made for air and missile power, and are currently in vogue for space power. When space is perceived as terrain, it can be mapped and studied geopolitically (see figure 2). Gravitational isobars are analogous to elevation lines, and both high-ground and lines of 11 communication stand out. The key feature for understanding the importance of LEO is its dominant position near the top of the earth’s gravity well. Figure 2. A satellite in stable LEO circles the earth every 90 minutes, and does so without any expenditure of fuel. A network of about 300 interconnected satellites armed with kinetic or directed energy weapons could provide continuous coverage of the earth and, according to scaled back Strategic Defense Initiative estimates from the late 1980s, could engage 100 simultaneous missile launches from anywhere on the earth. While this does not protect against a massive attack from a major nuclear power, it does give some defense against the most likely nuclear missile events—an accidental launch, a terrorist or rogue state launch, the so-called mad boat captain scenario, or a limited strike by third party states (e.g. India vs. Pakistan or Israel vs. Iran). A network of just three laser or other directed energy satellites in geostationary orbit (24,000 miles above the earth) would provide near-instantaneous coverage of 70 percent of the earth’s surface. 12 The advantageous position atop the gravity well is extraordinary. Satellites there are travelling at hyper-velocity, about 17,500 mph, making them extremely fleeting and difficult to target from the bottom of the well, that is, from the surface of the earth. The velocity of even a tiny projectile hitting the earth at this speed magnifies the damage potential. A non-explosive heat shielded metal rod could penetrate several meters of hardened concrete, for example. A needle-sized projectile travelling at this speed would smash a missile lumbering up from the bottom of the gravity well to bits. If one state (or entity) could quickly saturate LEO with several dozen micro-satellites, each with a complement of small, hyper-velocity kinetic rods, it could dictate the terms of entry into outer space. Such satellites would be too small to detect from the earth (the optical distortion of looking from a more-dense to a less-dense medium obfuscates all but the largest satellites; think of the difference in clarity between looking into a swimming pool from the atmosphere and looking out at the atmosphere from underwater) and could begin operations by clearing LEO of all adversary satellites. Any state attempting to repopulate LEO would have to take the risk of having its space launch vehicle (SLV) destroyed in the boost phase, at terrific expense. ASAT missiles or SLVs launched from the earth have easily detected heat signatures, and would be readily engaged before they could reach LEO. Indeed, space is the only location that would allow a state intent on preventing opposing weapons from reaching space to do so comprehensively and efficiently. Ground-based interceptors engage in the unpowered mid-course, where they are vulnerable to decoys and other counter-targeting deceptions, or worse, in the re-entry phase. Moreover, such systems must be placed along expected lines of approach (they are not adaptive), and are vulnerable to conventional and terrorist attacks. Sea and air-launched anti-satellite weapons can engage SLVs in the boost phase if they are already operating close to a launch point at the time of attack. Destroying an enemy’s rockets and missiles in the boost phase has many additional advantages, to include ensuring that any debris caused by the engagement falls onto the launching state. Doing so effectively, over the entirety of the earth’s surface, is a capacity best based in space. </span>

<span class="Underline">Space is geographically shaped by gravity – control of chokepoints is possible</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, '2 (Everett C Dolman is Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. Astropolitik, edited by Colin Gray and Williamson Murray, edited by Colin Gray and Williamson Murray, Pg 62)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the Age of Sail, wind and current—their appearance, prevalence, or lack thereof— were the determining factors in transoceanic travel. In rail travel, gradient is the determining limitation in transcontinental planning. In space, gravity is the most important factor in both understanding and traversing the topography of space. It dictates prudent travel and strategic asset placement. The unseen undulations of outer space terrain, the hills and valleys of space, are more properly referred to as gravity wells. Depiction of this terrain is difficult, but a two-dimensional portrayal is that of a weight sinking into a taughtly stretched sheet of rubber (see Figure 3.8). The more massive the body, the deeper the well. Travel or practical distance in space is less a function of linear distance than of effort or work expended to get from point A to point B. Traveling 35,000 km from the surface of the Earth, for example, requires 22 times as much effort as traveling a similar distance from the surface of the Moon, as the Earth’s gravity well is 22 times deeper. 12 In spacefaring terms, the important measure of work is the propulsive effort required to change a velocity vector, or the total velocity required to get from point A to point B. The total velocity effort (also called Δv or Delta V) is the key to understanding the reality of space travel and the efficient movement of goods. In another example of effective distance in space versus linear distance, it is much cheaper in terms of Δv to propel a spacecraft from the Moon to Mars (56 million km at the closest orbital point) than to propel the same spacecraft from the Earth to the Moon (just 385,000 km). 13 Thus the Δv to go from low Earth orbit (an orbit just above the atmosphere) to lunar orbit is 4100 m/s, which is only 300 m/s more than to go to geosynchronous [orbit, indeed] most of the effort of space travel near the Earth is spent in getting 100 km or so off the Earth, that is, into low Earth orbit. [More revealing,] to go from low Earth orbit to lunar orbit takes about 5 days, but requires less than half the effort needed to go from the Earth’s surface to low orbit. [Thus,] certain points that are far apart in distance (and time) are quite close together in terms of the propulsive effort required to move from one to the other. 14 The previous discussion of orbital mechanics has shown that a spacecraft in stable orbit expends no fuel, and is therefore in the most advantageous Δv configuration. The most efficient travel in space can then be envisioned as a transfer from one stable orbit to another with the least expenditure of Δv. Using this logic, in space we can find specific orbits and transit routes that because of their advantages in fuel efficiency create natural corridors of movement and commerce. Space, like the sea, potentially can be traversed in any direction, but because of gravity wells and the forbidding cost of getting fuel to orbit, over time spacefaring nations will develop specific pathways of heaviest traffic. Orbital maneuvers can be performed at any point, but in order to conserve fuel, there are certain points at which thrust ought to be applied. The most efficient way to get from orbit A to orbit B (the proper language of space travel) is the Hohmann transfer (see Figure 3.9). This maneuver is a two-step change in Δv. Engines are first fired to accelerate the spacecraft into a higher elliptical orbit (or decelerate into a lower one). When the target orbit is intersected, the engines fire again to circularize and stabilize the final orbit. A Hohmann transfer orbit is depicted from the Earth to geosynchronous orbit, but the same logic is used in all transfers including low-Earth orbit to geostationary, planetary movement, even interception of comets from Earth launch facilities. So-called ‘fast transfers’, in which the rules of orbital mechanics are ignored and a spacecraft simply expends fuel throughout its flight path, are of course possible, but require such an expenditure of Δv they will only be done only if fuel is abundant/functionally without cost, or if time is critical. This is the outer-space equivalent of sailing the long way round, however, and can make business unprofitable and military losses unacceptable. Given the vital necessity to conserve fuel and increase the productive lives of spacecraft, the future lanes of commerce and military lines of communications in space will be the Hohmann transfer orbits between stable spaceports. Britain’s rise to power came, Mahan believed, because it had exploited its location across the sea routes of Europe. A modern astrostrategist can and should make similar arguments. Mahan correctly observed that a prudent state not only could avoid garrisoning all the seas to dominate them, it would not even have to garrison the whole of the commerce lanes. Only the critical point locations along these lanes need be controlled. A small but highly trained and equipped force carefully deployed to control the bottlenecks or chokepoints of the major sea lanes would suffice. Control of these few geographically determined locations would guarantee dominance over military movement and world trade to the overseeing state. The Hohmann transfer establishes the equivalent of the lane of commerce for space. Domination of space will come through efficient control of specific outer space strategic narrows or chokepoints along these lanes. The primary and first readily identifiable strategic narrow is low-Earth orbit itself. This tight band of operational space contains the bulk of mankind’s satellites, a majority of which are military platforms or have military utility. This is also the realm of current anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons technology and operations, including the US F-15 launched satellite interceptor and the massive Russian proximity blast co-orbital ASAT. Within this narrow belt are the current and projected permanently manned space stations, and all space shuttle operations. Moreover, all the incomprehensible vastness of the universe can be accessed only by traveling through it. At the edge of Earth space, beyond low-Earth orbit, lies the most obvious and discussed strategic narrow—the geostationary belt. This band about the equatorial waist of the Earth is the only natural orbit that allows for a stable position relative to a given point on the Earth. The geostationary belt has severe constraints on the number of satellites that can operate within it, however, due to the possibility of broadcast interference from adjacent platforms. This has caused it to be considered a scarce and precious international natural resource by most members of the international community. Nonetheless, in 1977, nine equatorial states asserted in the Bogota Declaration that national sovereignty extended upward, ad just coloeum, to geostationary altitude. The action is not dissimilar to the attempts of numerous coastal states to extend the limit of their internationally recognized territorial waters. In other words, the geostationary belt is considered the sovereign territory of those states directly beneath it, transforming an area routinely referred to as ‘the common heritage of mankind’ into a geopolitical conflict zone (see Chapter 4 for a complete discussion). Mahan additionally advocated the establishment of naval bases at strategic point locations, including Hawaii, the Philippines, and several Caribbean islands, to act as fueling and resupply stations for the seafaring state’s navy. The range of ships and natural interests of the state geographically determined their spacing. Without these bases, US war and trade ships would ‘be like land birds, unable to fly far from their own shores’. 15 The notion is not fresh, and such staged basing is historically common, but its tendrils reach to outer space. Giulio Douhet’s advocacy of a basing procedure predicated on new technology complements the Mahanian vision when transferred to space. Douhet wrote extensively of the coming revolution in modern warfare due to the fact that aircraft were essentially unimpeded by the Earth’s surface features (a critical change in the evolution toward astropolitics with the gradually decreasing importance of topography). Air power was limited in its operations, however, by critical air operations routes, which required precisely located takeoff and landing fields and effective maintenance and repair facilities at major centers. Such bases should be considered critical for space control, and planets, moons, asteroids, and other heavenly bodies are obvious locations for ‘way stations’ or ‘stepping stones’ for space operations. But these may not be the most favorable point locations from a strategic perception. Another consideration based on Δv advantages must be taken into account. The gravity well concept discussed above has important implications for military combat operations other than space transportation/logistics and way station location. In 1981, G.H.Stine wrote of the energy and maneuver advantages of high ground positions in outer space. 16 The first, energy advantage, is a firepower benefit because weapons placed higher in the gravity well gain the downward momentum—velocity in the power equation, velocity times mass—while kinetic energy weapons firing up the gravity well lose momentum, thus power. The maneuver advantage comes because spacecraft higher up in the gravity well have more time to observe and react to attacks than those at lower positions. Stine argued that true tactical and operational advantage in space would go to those who could dominate the top of the gravity wells, and the best positions were those that because of counterbalancing gravitational forces had no down well pull in any direction. Perhaps the most intriguing point locations useful for strategic or commercial bases in Earth-Moon space are the gravitational anomalies known as Lagrange Libration Points, named for the eighteenth-century French mathematician who first postulated their existence. 17 Lagrange calculated that there were five specific points in space where the gravitational effects of the Earth and Moon would cancel each other out (see Figure 3.10). An object fixed at one of these points (or more accurately stated, in tight orbit around one of these points) would remain permanently stable, with no expenditure of fuel. The enticing property of libration points is that they maintain a fixed relation with respect to the Earth and Moon. In practice, owing to perturbations in the space environment including solar flares, orbital drift and wobble, and micrometeorites, only two of the Lagrange points are effectively stable—L4 and L5. The potential military and commercial value of a point in space that is virtually stable is highly speculative, but imaginatively immense. The occupation and control of these points is of such vital importance that an advocacy group called the L-5 Society was formed to influence national policymakers. 18 </span>

<span class="Underline">The plan is independently key to tech leadership necessary to heg</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)</span>
<span class="Underline">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective. This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. Of course space weapons are expensive—very expensive, though not necessarily more expensive than terrestrially based systems that may accomplish the same objectives, not to mention objectives that cannot be met otherwise—but so are all revolutionary technologies, particularly those that pioneer a new medium. Furthermore, the state that achieves cutting-edge military technology first has historically been the recipient of tremendous battlefield advantage, and so pursuit of cut-ting-edge technology continues— despite the enormous cost. Moreover, the cultural and economic infrastructure that allows for and promotes innovation in the highest technologies tends to remain at the forefront of international influence. All empires decline and eventually are subsumed, but it has not been their search for the newest technologies or desire to stay at the forefront of innovation that causes their declines. Rather, it has been the policies of those states, generally an overexpansion of imperial control or an economic decision to freeze technologies, that result in their stagnation and demise. Space and space technology represent both the resources and the innovation that can keep a liberal and responsible American hegemony in place for decades, if not centuries, to come; furthermore, unless America maintains this technological edge, it will likely lose its preeminence.</span>

<span class="Underline">Weaponizing space trades off with conventional power – solves all disads</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, Assoc. Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, 10</span>
<span class="Underline">[September, Dr. Everett Carl, Associate, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”]</span>
<span class="Underline">The fiduciary and social costs to weaponize space effectively will be immense. These are necessary costs if America, or any other state, is determined to have a military force structure that relies on space support and enablement to operate as it does now, increasingly so for the future. And it will have benefits for the military that may not be readily apparent; for where will the money come for this space weapons capacity? It will not come from school budgets or foreign aid programs. It will not come at the expense of health care reform or corporate 26 bailouts. It will come from existing or planned military budgets, from the capacity of conventional military capabilities on the land and sea and in the air. There will be fewer aircraft carriers and high dollar aircraft fighters and bombers. If space weapons capable of targeting the earth are deployed, relatively slow moving ships and aircraft will be conceptually obsolete, instantly vulnerable to them. As money is scrounged for space lasers and exotic kinetic kill satellites, the systems these space weapons make defenseless will be scrapped. More funding will come from current ballistic and anti-ballistic missile development and deployment, as global ballistic missile defense from space is more cost and practically effective than comprehensive ground or sea-based systems. And most importantly, it will come from personnel reductions, from ground troops currently occupying foreign territory. In this way, America will retain its ability to use force to influence states around the world, but it will atrophy the capacity to occupy their territory and threaten their sovereignty directly. The era of US hegemony will be extended, but the possibility of US global empire will be reduced. Maybe. The future is not determined or even determinable. I have argued elsewhere the practicality of controlling space. I will not add to that argument here. I have also pointed out that the theory that animates these conclusions is precise and well-developed, but the real world is too complex to mirror theory. The political will necessary to weaponize space and follow up with a regime capable of ensuring commercial and cooperative development of space is not yet evident, and such a pure astropolitik vision is not currently viable. But support for the common or collective good that could come from a properly weaponized space force may change that. There are some potential missions for space weapons that do not detract from their primary purpose but complement the goal of space control that may justify its expense. The desire to clean up debris from high traffic orbits could theoretically be done by nuclear-powered space-based lasers—good target practice for their operators. Assured access to space provided by a robust space control force could pave the way for clean, permanent nuclear and toxic waste disposal, as such items currently stored on earth could be sent into the sun. These scenarios are more likely with the monitoring and protection provided by a space-based military or police power. It is an even more difficult dilemma for those who oppose weapons in general, and space weapons in particular. Ramifications for the most critical current function of the Army, Navy, and Marines—pacification, occupation, and control of foreign territory—are profound. With the downsizing of traditional weapons to accommodate heightened space expenditures, the ability to do all three would wane significantly. At a time when many are calling for increased capability to pacify and police foreign lands, in light of the continuing commitments to the occupation and stabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq, space weapons proponents must advocate reduction of these capabilities in favor of a system that will have no direct potential to do so. Hence, the argument that the unilateral deployment of space weapons will precipitate a disastrous arms race is further eroded. To be sure, space weapons are offensive by their very nature. They deter violence by the omnipresent threat of precise, measured, and unstoppable retaliation. But they offer no advantage in the mission of territorial occupation. As such, they are far less intimidating to the international environment than any combination of conventional weapons employed in their stead. What would be more threatening to a state in opposition to American hegemony: a dozen lasers in space with pinpoint accuracy, or (for about the same price) a dozen low-tech infantry divisions massed on its border? A state employing offensive deterrence through space weapons can punish a transgressor state, but it is in a poor position to challenge that state’s sovereignty. A transgressor state is less likely to succumb to the security dilemma if it perceives that its national survival is not at risk. Over time, the world of sovereign states may recognize that the United States could not and would not use space weapons to threaten another country’s internal self-determination. The United States would still maintain the capacity to challenge any attempts to directly intervene in the politics of others, and it would have severely restricted its own capacity to do so. Judicious and non arbitrary use of a weaponized space eventually could be seen as a net positive, an effective global police force that punishes criminal acts but does not threaten to engage in an imperial manner. </span>
===<span class="Underline">1AC impacts</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Force application from space ends interstate conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman, ‘3 – Everett C, Professor of Comparative Military Studies (October 2003. Space Policy Institute, Security Policy Studies Program, Elliot School of International Affairs, George Washington University. “Space Power and US Hegemony: Maintaining a Liberal World Order in the 21 st Century”. Space Weapons: Are They Needed?. Ed. John M. Logsdon, Gordon Adams. http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf )</span>
<span class="Underline">By using its current and near-term capacities, the United States should endeavor at once to seize military control of low-earth orbit From that high ground vantage, near the top of the Earth’s gravity well, space-based laser or kinetic energy weapons could prevent any other state from deploying assets there, and could most effectively engage and destroy terrestrial enemy ASAT facilities. Other states should still be able to enter space relatively freely for the purpose of engaging in commerce, in keeping with the capitalist principles of the new regime. Just as in the sea dominance eras of the Athenians and British before them, the military space forces of the United States would have to create and maintain a safe operating environment (from pirates and other interlopers, perhaps from debris) to enhance trade and exploration. Only those spacecraft that provide advance notice of their mission and flight plan would be permitted in space, however. The military control of low-Earth orbit would be for all practical purposes a police blockade of all current spaceports, monitoring and controlling all traffic both in and out. The United States would concurrently have to announce the policy that it will tolerate no launch of a missile (cruise or ballistic), no cross-border incursion of aircraft, no hostile and illegal position of unwanted naval forces within the twelve-mile limit of national territory. Any transgressions anywhere in the world would be stopped, immediately by force from space. States will complain that their sovereignty has been infringed, but the United States will be on the highest moral ground. Under no condition can a state initiate cross-border violence, and therefore no state can credibly claim that it is defending itself. Thus the complaints of the state whose forces have been dispatched by space weapons will ring hollow. Yes, perhaps the United States had no international right to shoot down the nuclear or chemically tipped missile launched at a traditional adversary, but the launching state will have a hard time justifying its prior right to start such a war. Over time, and this is the key factor to make such a policy work for international stability and peace (which are at least intervening factors in the rise of global prosperity), the United States must rigidly enforce this policy without discrimination. It must not make any terrestrial military incursions of its own. It must act decisively and openly, and completely without bias. There will be cries of dismay that the United States is acting as an empire, but since the only limitations made on another state’s rights are on those to make war, eventually the loudest outbursts will ebb. People will get used to having American weapons flying overhead. They won’t like it, to be sure, but it will seem a waste of time to protest something that has brought so much good to the world. States will begin to cut back on traditional military forces, as they are less useful in a world where they cannot be used offensively, and unnecessary so long as the United States can guarantee state borders. And so it would. Complete domination of space would give the United States such an advantage on the terrestrial battlefield that no state could openly challenge it. Traditional war would be effectively over. An idealist vision would be secured by realist means. Strategic dominance of space would further force the United States to maintain the industrial and technical capacity to keep it at the forefront of hegemony for the foreseeable future. Nontraditional war, especially terrorism, would not be over, but it could very well be mitigated. 42 The current dominant use of space for military matters is in the areas of observation and monitoring. These are the tools of effective police organizations, and have already been adapted in counter-terrorism plans. The details would be worked out in time, but the strategy clearly has benefits for the United States and the world.</span>

<span class="Underline">US-China war risks World War III</span>
<span class="Underline">Starke 09 – Colonel in the US Army [Colonel Timothy J. Starke, “China’s Military and Space Transformation: Implications for U.S. and Northeast-Asia,” Strategy Research Project, 24-03-2009, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA500675&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">Prospects of violent conflict between the United States and China are enough to send shivers down the spines of most Americans and Chinese. Unthinkable as it sounds to many, this scenario nearly became reality several times the past half-century, most recently during the 1995-1996 Taiwan Straits missile crisis.2 Fortunately, cooler heads prevailed. What about next time? Given the lethality of modern weaponry and our historical tendencies , the scope of death and destruction in a U.S.-China conflict could exceed that of both World Wars combined and possibly trigger World War III. Inflammatory statements by hardline Chinese leaders like Major General Chenghu, coupled with China’s massive military build-up and demonstrated weapon advances, such as its unannounced 2007 antisatellite missile launch,3 fuel U.S. mistrust of China’s true intentions. Pg. 1</span>

<span class="Underline">The mere perception of weakness causes US lashout and escalation</span>
<span class="Underline">Ashley J. Tellis, PhD, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment 9/2007 (Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues , “China's Military Space Strategy”)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in the Taiwan Strait would entail serious deterrence and crisis instabilities. If such a clash were to compel Beijing to attack US space systems at the beginning of a war, the very prospect of such a 'space Pearl Harbor'94 could, in turn, provoke the United States to contemplate pre-emptive attacks or horizontal escalation on the Chinese mainland. Such outcomes would be particularly likely in a conflict in the next decade, before Washington has the opportunity to invest fully in redundant space capabilities. Already, US Strategic Command officials have publicly signalled that conventionally armed Trident submarine-launched ballistic missiles would be appropriate weapons for executing the prompt strikes that might become necessary in such a contingency.95 Such attacks, even if employing only conventional warheads, on space launch sites, sensor nodes and command and control installations on the Chinese mainland could well be perceived as a precursor to an all-out war. It would be difficult for all sides to limit the intensification of such a conflict, even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception.96 The emergence of potent Chinese counterspace capabilities makes US military operations in Asia more risky than ever. The threat has not arisen due to a lack of a space arms-control regime, or because of the Bush administration's disinclination to negotiate an accord that bans the weaponisation of space. Rather, it is rooted entirely in China's requirement that it be able to defeat the United States in a regional conflict despite its conventional inferiority. This strategic challenge has compelled Beijing to exploit every anti-access and battlespace-denial technology potentially available. The threat posed by this Chinese effort cannot be neutralised by arms-control agreements, even though all countries stand to profit from the absence of threats to their assets in space. There is a temptation, especially in the United States, to view China's counterspace programmes in moralistic terms. This approach is undesirable and best avoided: Beijing's desire to defeat the stronger by asymmetric means is not a reflection of its deviousness, nor provoked by mendacity on the part of the United States or the Bush administration. It is grounded in the objective conditions that define the relationship between the two countries: competing political goals, likely to persist whether or not the Taiwan conflict is resolved. In such circumstances, the United States should seek, as the Bush administration's own National Space Policy declares, to protect the 'use of outer space by all nations for peaceful purposes and for the benefit of all humanity'. But if this fundamental goal is threatened by Chinese counterspace activities aimed at American space assets, the United States has no choice but to run an offence-defence arms race, and win.</span>

<span class="Underline">US hegemony facilitates great power bargaining --- the alternative is power wars. </span>
<span class="Underline">Wohlforth 09 – Professor of government @ Dartmouth College [William C. Wohlforth, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1, January 2009] </span>
<span class="Underline">Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent of the distribution of capabilities. If the status of states depends in some measure on their relative capabilities, and if states derive utility from status, then different distributions of capabilities may affect levels of satisfaction, just as different income distributions may affect levels of status competition in domestic settings. 6 Building on research in psychology and sociology, I argue that even capabilities distributions among major powers foster ambiguous status hierarchies, which generate more dissatisfaction and clashes over the status quo. And the more stratified the distribution of capabilities, the less likely such status competition is. Unipolarity thus generates far fewer incentives than either bipolarity or multipolarity for direct great power positional competition over status. Elites in the other major powers continue to prefer higher status, but in a unipolar system they face comparatively weak incentives to translate that preference into costly action. And the absence of such incentives matters because social status is a positional good—something whose value depends on how much one has in relation to others.7 “If everyone has high status,” Randall Schweller notes, “no one does.”8 While one actor might increase its status, all cannot simultaneously do so. High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9 I begin by describing the puzzles facing predominant theories that status competition might solve. Building on recent research on social identity and status seeking, I then show that under certain conditions the ways decision makers identify with the states they represent may prompt them to frame issues as positional disputes over status in a social hierarchy. I develop hypotheses that tailor this scholarship to the domain of great power politics, showing how the probability of status competition is likely to be linked to polarity. The rest of the article investigates whether there is sufficient evidence for these hypotheses to warrant further refinement and testing. I pursue this in three ways: by showing that the theory advanced here is consistent with what we know about large-scale patterns of great power conflict through history; by [End Page 30] demonstrating that the causal mechanisms it identifies did drive relatively secure major powers to military conflict in the past (and therefore that they might do so again if the world were bipolar or multipolar); and by showing that observable evidence concerning the major powers’ identity politics and grand strategies under unipolarity are consistent with the theory’s expectations. Puzzles of Power and War Recent research on the connection between the distribution of capabilities and war has concentrated on a hypothesis long central to systemic theories of power transition or hegemonic stability: that major war arises out of a power shift in favor of a rising state dissatisfied with a status quo defended by a declining satisfied state.10 Though they have garnered substantial empirical support, these theories have yet to solve two intertwined empirical and theoretical puzzles—each of which might be explained by positional concerns for status. First, if the material costs and benefits of a given status quo are what matters, why would a state be dissatisfied with the very status quo that had abetted its rise? The rise of China today naturally prompts this question, but it is hardly a novel situation. Most of the best known and most consequential power transitions in history featured rising challengers that were prospering mightily under the status quo. In case after case, historians argue that these revisionist powers sought recognition and standing rather than specific alterations to the existing rules and practices that constituted the order of the day. In each paradigmatic case of hegemonic war, the claims of the rising power are hard to reduce to instrumental adjustment of the status quo. In R. Ned Lebow’s reading, for example, Thucydides’ account tells us that the rise of Athens posed unacceptable threats not to the security or welfare of Sparta but rather to its identity as leader of the Greek world, which was an important cause of the Spartan assembly’s vote for war.11 The issues that inspired Louis XIV’s and Napoleon’s dissatisfaction with the status quo were many and varied, but most accounts accord [End Page 31] independent importance to the drive for a position of unparalleled primacy. In these and other hegemonic struggles among leading states in post-Westphalian Europe, the rising challenger’s dissatisfaction is often difficult to connect to the material costs and benefits of the status quo, and much contemporary evidence revolves around issues of recognition and status.12 Wilhemine Germany is a fateful case in point. As Paul Kennedy has argued, underlying material trends as of 1914 were set to propel Germany’s continued rise indefinitely, so long as Europe remained at peace.13 Yet Germany chafed under the very status quo that abetted this rise and its elite focused resentment on its chief trading partner—the great power that presented the least plausible threat to its security: Great Britain. At fantastic cost, it built a battleship fleet with no plausible strategic purpose other than to stake a claim on global power status.14 Recent historical studies present strong evidence that, far from fearing attacks from Russia and France, German leaders sought to provoke them, knowing that this would lead to a long, expensive, and sanguinary war that Britain was certain to join.15 And of all the motivations swirling round these momentous decisions, no serious historical account fails to register German leaders’ oft-expressed yearning for “a place in the sun.” The second puzzle is bargaining failure. Hegemonic theories tend to model war as a conflict over the status quo without specifying precisely what the status quo is and what flows of benefits it provides to states.16 Scholars generally follow Robert Gilpin in positing that the underlying issue concerns a “desire to redraft the rules by which relations among nations work,” “the nature and governance of the system,” and “the distribution of territory among the states in the system.”17 If these are the [End Page 32] issues at stake, then systemic theories of hegemonic war and power transition confront the puzzle brought to the fore in a seminal article by James Fearon: what prevents states from striking a bargain that avoids the costs of war? 18 Why can’t states renegotiate the international order as underlying capabilities distributions shift their relative bargaining power? Fearon proposed that one answer consistent with strict rational choice assumptions is that such bargains are infeasible when the issue at stake is indivisible and cannot readily be portioned out to each side. Most aspects of a given international order are readily divisible, however, and, as Fearon stressed, “both the intrinsic complexity and richness of most matters over which states negotiate and the availability of linkages and side-payments suggest that intermediate bargains typically will exist.”19 Thus, most scholars have assumed that the indivisibility problem is trivial, focusing on two other rational choice explanations for bargaining failure: uncertainty and the commitment problem.20 In the view of many scholars, it is these problems, rather than indivisibility, that likely explain leaders’ inability to avail themselves of such intermediate bargains. Yet recent research inspired by constructivism shows how issues that are physically divisible can become socially indivisible, depending on how they relate to the identities of decision makers.21 Once issues surrounding the status quo are framed in positional terms as bearing on the disputants’ relative standing, then, to the extent that they value their standing itself, they may be unwilling to pursue intermediate bargaining solutions. Once linked to status, easily divisible issues that theoretically provide opportunities for linkages and side payments of various sorts may themselves be seen as indivisible and thus unavailable as avenues for possible intermediate bargains. The historical record surrounding major wars is rich with evidence suggesting that positional concerns over status frustrate bargaining: expensive, protracted conflict over what appear to be minor issues; a propensity on the part of decision makers to frame issues in terms of relative rank even when doing so makes bargaining harder; decision-makers’ [End Page 33] inability to accept feasible divisions of the matter in dispute even when failing to do so imposes high costs; demands on the part of states for observable evidence to confirm their estimate of an improved position in the hierarchy; the inability of private bargains to resolve issues; a frequently observed compulsion for the public attainment of concessions from a higher ranked state; and stubborn resistance on the part of states to which such demands are addressed even when acquiescence entails limited material cost. The literature on bargaining failure in the context of power shifts remains inconclusive, and it is premature to take any empirical pattern as necessarily probative. Indeed, Robert Powell has recently proposed that indivisibility is not a rationalistic explanation for war after all: fully rational leaders with perfect information should prefer to settle a dispute over an indivisible issue by resorting to a lottery rather than a war certain to destroy some of the goods in dispute. What might prevent such bargaining solutions is not indivisibility itself, he argues, but rather the parties’ inability to commit to abide by any agreement in the future if they expect their relative capabilities to continue to shift.22 This is the credible commitment problem to which many theorists are now turning their attention. But how it relates to the information problem that until recently dominated the formal literature remains to be seen.23 The larger point is that positional concerns for status may help account for the puzzle of bargaining failure. In the rational choice bargaining literature, war is puzzling because it destroys some of the benefits or flows of benefits in dispute between the bargainers, who would be better off dividing the spoils without war. Yet what happens to these models if what matters for states is less the flows of material benefits themselves than their implications for relative status? The salience of this question depends on the relative importance of positional concern for status among states. Do Great Powers Care about Status? Mainstream theories generally posit that states come to blows over an international status quo only when it has implications for their security or material well-being. The guiding assumption is that a state’s satisfaction [End Page 34] with its place in the existing order is a function of the material costs and benefits implied by that status.24 By that assumption, once a state’s status in an international order ceases to affect its material wellbeing, its relative standing will have no bearing on decisions for war or peace. But the assumption is undermined by cumulative research in disciplines ranging from neuroscience and evolutionary biology to economics, anthropology, sociology, and psychology that human beings are powerfully motivated by the desire for favorable social status comparisons. This research suggests that the preference for status is a basic disposition rather than merely a strategy for attaining other goals.25 People often seek tangibles not so much because of the welfare or security they bring but because of the social status they confer. Under certain conditions, the search for status will cause people to behave in ways that directly contradict their material interest in security and/or prosperity. Pg. 33-35</span>

<span class="Underline">Scope and intensity of conflicts have been decreasing – hegemony is the primary cause – statistical studies prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Drezner 05 Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University</span>
<span class="Underline">(Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, war, and the dangers of extrapolation, may 25</span>
<span class="Underline">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, perhaps, since our distant forebears realized that a tree limb could be used as a club. But here is something you would never guess from watching the news: War has entered a cycle of decline. Combat in Iraq and in a few other places is an exception to a significant global trend that has gone nearly unnoticed--namely that, for about 15 years, there have been steadily fewer armed conflicts worldwide. In fact, it is possible that a person's chance of dying because of war has, in the last decade or more, become the lowest in human history. Is Easterbrook right? He has a few more paragraphs on the numbers: The University of Maryland studies find the number of wars and armed conflicts worldwide peaked in 1991 at 51, which may represent the most wars happening simultaneously at any point in history. Since 1991, the number has fallen steadily. There were 26 armed conflicts in 2000 and 25 in 2002, even after the Al Qaeda attack on the United States and the U.S. counterattack against Afghanistan. By 2004, Marshall and Gurr's latest study shows, the number of armed conflicts in the world had declined to 20, even after the invasion of Iraq. All told, there were less than half as many wars in 2004 as there were in 1991. Marshall and Gurr also have a second ranking, gauging the magnitude of fighting. This section of the report is more subjective. Everyone agrees that the worst moment for human conflict was World War II; but how to rank, say, the current separatist fighting in Indonesia versus, say, the Algerian war of independence is more speculative. Nevertheless, the Peace and Conflict studies name 1991 as the peak post-World War II year for totality of global fighting, giving that year a ranking of 179 on a scale that rates the extent and destructiveness of combat. By 2000, in spite of war in the Balkans and genocide in Rwanda, the number had fallen to 97; by 2002 to 81; and, at the end of 2004, it stood at 65. This suggests the extent and intensity of global combat is now less than half what it was 15 years ago. Easterbrook spends the rest of the essay postulating the causes of this -- the decline in great power war, the spread of democracies, the growth of economic interdependence, and even the peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Easterbrook makes a lot of good points -- most people are genuinely shocked when they are told that even in a post-9/11 climate, there has been a steady and persistent decline in wars and deaths from wars. That said, what bothers me in the piece is what Easterbrook leaves out. First, he neglects to mention the biggest reason for why war is on the decline -- there's a global hegemon called the United States right now. Easterbrook acknowledges that "the most powerful factor must be the end of the cold war" but he doesn't understand why it's the most powerful factor. Elsewhere in the piece he talks about the growing comity among the great powers, without discussing the elephant in the room: the reason the "great powers" get along is that the United States is much, much more powerful than anyone else. If you quantify power only by relative military capabilities, the U.S. is a great power, there are maybe ten or so middle powers, and then there are a lot of mosquitoes. [If the U.S. is so powerful, why can't it subdue the Iraqi insurgency?--ed. Power is a relative measure -- the U.S. might be having difficulties, but no other country in the world would have fewer problems.] Joshua Goldstein, who knows a thing or two about this phenomenon, made this clear in a Christian Science Monitor op-ed three years ago: We probably owe this lull to the end of the cold war, and to a unipolar world order with a single superpower to impose its will in places like Kuwait, Serbia, and Afghanistan. The emerging world order is not exactly benign – Sept. 11 comes to mind – and Pax Americana delivers neither justice nor harmony to the corners of the earth. But a unipolar world is inherently more peaceful than the bipolar one where two superpowers fueled rival armies around the world. The long-delayed "peace dividend" has arrived, like a tax refund check long lost in the mail. The difference in language between Goldstein and Easterbrook highlights my second problem with "The End of War?" Goldstein rightly refers to the past fifteen years as a "lull" -- a temporary reduction in war and war-related death. The flip side of U.S. hegemony being responsible for the reduction of armed conflict is what would happen if U.S. hegemony were to ever fade away. Easterbrook focuses on the trends that suggest an ever-decreasing amount of armed conflict -- and I hope he's right. But I'm enough of a realist to know that if the U.S. should find its primacy challenged by, say, a really populous non-democratic country on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, all bets about the utility of economic interdependence, U.N. peacekeeping, and the spread of democracy are right out the window. UPDATE: To respond to a few thoughts posted by the commenters: 1) To spell things out a bit more clearly -- U.S. hegemony important to the reduction of conflict in two ways. First, U.S. power can act as a powerful if imperfect constraint on pairs of enduring rivals (Greece-Turkey, India-Pakistan) that contemplate war on a regular basis. It can't stop every conflict, but it can blunt a lot of them. Second, and more important to Easterbrook's thesis, U.S. supremacy in conventional military affairs prevents other middle-range states -- China, Russia, India, Great Britain, France, etc. -- from challenging the U.S. or each other in a war. It would be suicide for anyone to fight a war with the U.S., and if any of these countries waged a war with each other, the prospect of U.S. intervention would be equally daunting</span>


<span class="Underline">Transition war causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Nye 90 former assistant secretary of defense and president of Harvard's Kennedy school of government </span>
<span class="Underline">(Joseph, Bound To Lead: The Changing Nature Of American Power 1990, p. 16-17)</span>
<span class="Underline">Some suggest that the current debate on American decline should be regarded as a register of mass psychology and popular fads rather than an analysis of power.42 Others ask why Americans should worry about power. Why not focus solely on wealth and live as well as Swedes or Canadians? The short answer is that the United States is not in the same geopolitical position as Sweden or Canada. It cannot afford a free ride in world politics. If the largest country in a world of nation-states abdicates leadership (as the United States did in the 1920s), the results can be disastrous for all. In an assessment of the debate about American decline, British scholar Susan Strange concludes that "we are all in agreement... on the critical nature of the present end-of-century decade. We share a common perception that mankind... is standing at a fork in the road... In the last resort, it may be that this common concern is more significant than the differences in interpretation. Decline and War. Perceptions of change in the relative power of nations are of critical importance to understanding the relationship between decline and war. One of the oldest generalizations about international politics attributes the onset of major wars to shifts in power among the leading nations. Thus Thucydides accounted for the onset of the Peloponnesian War which destroyed the power of ancient Athens. The history of the interstate system since 1500 is punctuated by severe wars in which one country struggled to surpass another as the leading state. If, as Robert Gilpin argues, "international politics has not changed fundamentally over the millennia," the implications for the future are bleak. And if fears about shifting power precipitate a major war in a world with 50,000 nuclear weapons, history as we know it may end.</span>

<span class="Underline">Space weapons are technologically feasible – it’s just a question of policy </span>
<span class="Underline">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Arguments in the first category spill the most ink in opposition, but they are relatively easy to dispatch. Consider first that history is littered with prophesies of technical and scientific inadequacy, such as Lord Kelvin's famous retort, "Heavier-than-air flying machines are impossible." Kelvin, a leading physicist and president of the Royal Society, made this boast in 1895, and no less an inventor than Thomas Edison agreed. The possibility of spaceflight prompted even more gloomy pessimism. A New York Times editorial in 1921 excoriated Robert Goddard for his silly notions of rocket-propelled space exploration (an opinion it has since retracted): "Goddard does not know the relation between action and reaction and the need to have something better than a vacuum against which to react. He seems to lack the basic knowledge ladled out daily in high schools." Compounding its error in judgment, opining in 1936, the Times stated flatly, "A rocket will never be able to leave the Earth's atmosphere."3 Bluntly negative scientific opinion on the possibility of space weapons writ large has been weeded out over time. No credible scientist today makes the claim of impossibility, and so less encompassing arguments are now the rule. The debate has moved to more subtle and scientifically sustainable arguments that a particular space weapon is not feasible. Mountains of mathematical formulae have been piled high in an effort, one by one, simply to bury the concept. But these limitations on specific systems are less due to theoretical analysis than to assumptions about future funding and available technology.4 The real objection, too often hidden from view, is that a particular weapons system or capability cannot be developed and deployed within the planned budget or within narrowly specified means. When one relaxes those assumptions, opposition on technical grounds generally falls away. Furthermore, counterexamples exist—for example, the Brilliant Pebbles space-based interceptor system was the most advanced defense concept to emerge from the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI). After a comprehensive series of technical reviews by even the strongest critics in 1989, it achieved major defense acquisition program status in 1990, was curtailed by congressional cuts in 1991 and 1992, and then was canceled by the Clinton administration in 1993. But the cancellation of the most advanced, least expensive, and most cost-effective missile defense system produced by the SDI program was for political, not technical, reasons.5 The devil may very well be in the details. But when critics oppose an entire class of weapons based upon analyses that show particular weapons will not work, their arguments fail to consider the inevitable arrival of fresh concepts or new technologies that change all notions of current capabilities. Have we thought out the details enough to say categorically that no technology will allow for a viable space weapons capability? If so, then the argument is pat; no counter is possible. But if there are technologies or conditions that could allow for the successful weaponization of space, then ought we not argue the policy details first, lest we be swept away by a course of action that merely chases the technology wherever it may go?</span>

<span class="Underline">Err aff on risk assessment- hidden benefits of hegemony</span>
<span class="Underline">Wohlforth 07 [ William, “Unipolar Stability: the rules of power analysis” Harvard International Review, Vol 29, No 1]</span>
<span class="Underline">Defining power as the ability to solve whatever global problem is currently in the headlines virtually guarantees highly volatile prognostications about polarity. This sort of headline chasing led to talk of “empire” in 2002 and 2003, just as it feeds today’s multipolar mania. Assessing active attempts by the United States to employ its power capabilities may well be the most misleading way to think about power. This approach inevitably leads to a selection bias against evidence of the indirect, “structural” effects of US power that are not dependent upon active management. Many effects that can be attributed to the unipolar distribution of power are developments that never occur: counter-balancing coalitions, Cold War-scale arms races, hegemonic rivalry for dominance, security dilemmas among Asian powers, and decisions by Japan and others to nuclearize. Clearly, assessing unipolarity’s potential effects involves weighing such non-events against the more salient examples in which active attempts to use power resources are stymied. But the selection bias goes much further. Not only are non-events downplayed in comparison to salient events that appear to demonstrate the powerlessness of the United States, but patterns of events that do go its way are often missed. Consider, for example, how often Washington’s failure to have its way in the United Nations is cited as compared to its experience in the IMF. And, even in the United Nations, a focus on highly contested issues, such as the attempt at a second resolution authorizing the invasion of Iraq, fails to note how the institution’s entire agenda has shifted to address concerns, such as terrorism, that are particularly important to the United States.</span>



=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===Development is Peaceful=== 
**A. Space development and exploration are commercial and R&D activities**
**Hsu and Cox ‘9**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Feng Hsu, Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group and Ken Cox, Founder & Director Aerospace Technology Working Group, 2/20/09, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]], Caplan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In our view, even with adequate reform in its governance model, NASA is not a rightful ,... ... and these need to be invested in solely by taxpayer contributions. </span>

**B. The aff weaponizes space – that’s a voter for predictable limits – there are limitless military modifications and proposed weapons systems – they add a whole new research base and set of plan mechanisms**
===**'Of Space'**=== 
<span class="Underline">A. the phrase “OF SPACE” in the resolution means the activity must occur IN space – not simply develop for USE in space.</span>
<span class="Underline">BOCKSTIEGEL 95 Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency</span>
<span class="Underline">(Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>

<span class="Underline">The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both ….. materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.</span>

<span class="Underline">AND – of creates precision – the OBJECT of the development/exploration must be SPACE.</span>
<span class="Underline">COLLINS 09</span>
<span class="Underline">[Collins World English Dictionary, dictionary.com]</span>

<span class="Underline">of (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ɒ</span><span class="Underline">v, ( unstressed ) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ə</span><span class="Underline">v) </span>
<span class="Underline">-- prep</span>
<span class="Underline">1. used with a verbal noun or gerund to link it with a following noun that is either the subject or the object of the verb embedded in the gerund: the breathing of a fine swimmer(subject) ; the breathing of clean air (object)</span>

===Framework=== 
====1NC==== 
A. Interpretation – the affirmative must defend a literal substantial increase in the United States federal government’s space exploration and/or development beyond earth’s mesosphere.
Resolved means to enact a policy by law
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1964</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Permanent Edition)</span>
Definition of the word “resolve,” **…** meaning “to establish by law”**.**

__And__, “United States Federal Government … a policy established by governmental means
<span class="Heading2Char">Ericson, 03</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging … future action that you propose. </span>

B. Voting issue
1. Predictability – ignoring the resolution opens up an infinite number of frameworks – this undermines our ability to have in-depth research on their arguments destroying the value of debate.

2. Ground – the resolution exists to create fair division of aff and neg ground – any alternative framework allows the aff to pick a moral high ground that destroys neg offense.

3. Education – academics must learn to engage the public’s line of thinking – abstract moralism without addressing how to get our policies passed is useless.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jeffrey </span>Isaac<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Spring </span><span class="Heading2Char">200</span>2<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Professor of Political Science at Indiana University. “Ends, Means, and Politics,” Dissent, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=601.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What is striking about much … . And it</span>undermines political effectiveness.

4. We should build plausible and specific scenarios—that’s key to improve space policy and avoid nuclear war
<span class="Heading2Char">HUNTLEY et al 2010</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On 16 March 1966 </span>__Neil Armstrong__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> deftly … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;">hardly be generated by governments.</span>

5. Turns the case —credible and specific scenarios are critical to manage technological change
<span class="Heading2Char">HUNTLEY et al 2010</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Wade L. Huntley, US Naval Postgraduate School; Joseph G. Bock, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Miranda Weingartner, Weingartner Consulting; “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy 26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is this last type … results of one such exercise.</span>

====Fairness Outweighs Education==== 
1. Fairness is important – this is a competitive game and people have less incentive to start or stay in the game if it is unfair – Clear, goal oriented rules are key to education and motivation
<span class="Heading2Char">Garris</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span class="Heading2Char">Ahlers and Driskell2002</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Rosemary, research psychologist with the Science and Technology Division of the Naval Air Warfare Center Training Systems Division, M.S. degree in industrial/organizational psychology, Robert, PhD, experimental psychology, human factors, NCstate, James, adjunct professor of psychology at Rollins College, PhD, USouth Carolina, “Games, Motivation, and Learning: A Research and Practice Model,” Simulation Gaming, Vol 33, No. 4, HC </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although </span>__game activity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">takes place … the game will play out. </span>

2. Fairness is key to preserve the educational value of debate –
a. Unpredictability causes shallow and generic debates – these are less valuable than strategies tailored to specific affirmatives.
b. Prevents rigorous testing – we need to research and isolate weaknesses and problems of the aff.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">James </span><span class="Heading2Char">Zappen, 2004</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Professor of Language and Literature at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. “The Rebirth of Dialogue: Bakhtin, Socrates, and the Rhetorical Tradition,” p. 35-36.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, Bakhtin describes the Socratic … of Gorgias, Polus, and Callicles. </span>

3. We solve the terminal impact to education – fairness in a debate context through topicality fosters tolerance of alternative viewpoints which solves dogmatism and bigotry
<span class="Heading2Char">Johnson and JohnsonProfs 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David, professor in the Department of Educational Psychology, University of Minnesota, Roger, professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, University of Minnesota, “Energizing Learning: The Instructional Power of Conflict,” Educational Researcher, Vol 38, No 1, HC </span>
__To discuss difficult issues, make …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Berkowitz & Gibbs, 1983; Berkowitz, Gibbs, & Broughton, 1980).</span>
==Kritik== 
===Heidegger=== 
====1NC Security==== 
Revealing the world as threats to national security naturalizes the instrumentalization of beings and warfare
<span class="Heading2Char">Burke, 07</span> (Anthony Burke- Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. //Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason//, Theory & Event - Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007)
__The epistemology of violence__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">I describe … </span>__global rule of the political.__

Loss of Being outweighs nuclear war – the enslavement of humans to technological thought destroys human dignity and freedom
Rojcewicz <span class="Heading2Char">Prof</span>, 06 (Richard- [<span class="Heading2Char">Prof</span> of philosophy at Pont Park University, translator of 3 Heidegger books], The Gods and Technology; A Reading of Heidegger p.141-142)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Heidegger now launches an extended … </span>__-blindness would make them slaves.__

Alternative text: Suspend calculative thought – this allows us to reengage ontological questions. Leaving assumptions and goals unquestioned guarantees error replication.
<span class="Heading2Char">Korous, 97</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Copeland winner, all around bad ass, Yale JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)</span>
The thought that inhabits critique … energy waiting to be unleashed<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

Particular understandings of war and conflict fails – it should be understood ontologically
<span class="Heading2Char">Barkawi and Brighton 2011</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Tarak, university lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, Shane, doctoral candidate and teaching assistant in the Department of War Studies at King's College, London, “Powers of War: Fighting, Knowledge, and Critique,” International Political Sociology, http://cambridge.academia.edu/TarakBarkawi/Papers/604640/Powers_of_War_Fighting_Knowledge_and_Critique)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So, what can be said … to instrumentalize knowledge about war.</span>

====Impact Calc==== 
Enframing is a pre-requisite to macropolitical violence
<span class="Heading2Char">Burke, 2k7</span> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory and Event, 10.2, Muse)
My argument here, whilst normatively … and violence? Will our thought?

Reject “try or die” – this is a technological form of decisionmaking and the lifeblood of militarism
<span class="Heading2Char">Shrader-Frechette, 97</span> (O’Neill Family Professor at Department of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame; Professor Emerita of Philosophy at the University of Windsor. //Technology and Values//, Rowman & Littlefield Publishing.)
As his thinking develops, however, … //__the only__// __way of thinking.”__

====Framework==== 
Evaluating ontology and how we arrived at the present produces better emergent solutions rather than static ones – reject rigid frameworks in favor of openness
Ladkin 2006 (Donna, Director of Research at the Centre for Leadership Studies at the University of Exeter, UK, “When Deontology and Utilitarianism Aren’t Enough: How Heidegger’s Notion of ‘‘Dwelling’’ Might Help Organisational Leaders Resolve Ethical Issues,” Journal of Business Ethics, Volume 65, pg. 91-97, HChoi)
Colloquially, ‘‘dwelling’’ is associated with a … best fit the given circumstance.

Focus on internal changes outweighs policy discussions
Zajonc Prof 2006
Arthur, Professor of physics at Amherst College. “Contemplative and Transformative Pedagogy,” Kosmos Journal 1.1, http://www.arthurzajonc.org/uploads/Contemplative_Pedagogy%20Kosmos.pdf.
I approach the question of … is the work of education."6

Ontology comes first
Patrick Thaddeus Jackson, 2010. Associate Professor of International Relations in the School of International Service at the American University in Washington, DC. “The Conduct of Inquiry in International Relations: Philosophy of Science and its Implications for the Study of World Politics,” p 41-2.
Ontological commitments, whether philosophical or … kinds of knowledge-production procedures.

====AT Realism==== 
Realism fails – it rationalizes any exceptions
dr. A. (Annette) Freyberg Inan Associate Professor, the Director of the Master's Program in Political Science, Univ of Amsterdam, PhD in Political Science at the University of Georgia, USA. Her MA degrees in Political Science and English were obtained at the University of Stuttgart in her native Germany. Editorial Board Member: International Studies Review, Globalizations Journal, Advisory Board Member: Millennium, What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature 2004
In a recent article, John Vasquez sets out to evaluate the realist claim to … explanatory power or predictive accuracy of the theory” (ibid.). (148-150)

====Hegemony Link==== 
Hegemony can’t control a disordered world and their technological mindset causes militarization and war
<span class="Heading2Char">Burke, 07</span> (Anthony Burke- Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. //Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason// Theory & Event - Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007)
By itself, __such an account … as much as its utilisation.__

====Environment Link==== 
Framing environmental damage in terms of tipping points and positivist risk calculation consigns non-essential beings to the trash heap.
Technological approaches to ecosystems fails – it presupposes a Cartesian split between the self and the world.
Ruth <span class="Heading2Char">Irwin PhD 2010</span>
Ruth, lecturer in philosophy at the University of Auckland. “Climate Change and Heidegger's Philosophy of Science,” Climate Ethics, Volume 11, Issue 1, Choi
The time frame of tipping points is highly debatable<span class="Underline">. Some tipping points have … which presumably can be made to 'fit' everywhere. </span>

====<span class="Underline">Miscalc Link</span>==== 
“accident” is a political strategy to obscure responsibility for nuclear violence
Hanna M. Segal, MB ChB FRC – Training and Supervising Psychoanalyst – British Pyscho-Analytic Society, 88 [Psychoanalysis and the Nuclear Threat: Clinical and Theoretical Studies, p. 47]
The growth of technology is … . We are in their hands.
====1NC Shenanigans==== 
[some poem]
Thus we affirm solidarity with nature—only through complete liberation from the brutal cycle of technological exploitation can we be in an authentic relationship with nature
Steven Best and Anthony Nocella explain in 2006
(Associate Professor of Philosophy and Humanities at University of Texas, El Paso and Professor of Criminology, Sociology, and Peace and Global Studies at Le Moyne College, 06. Steven and Anthony, Igniting a Revolution: voices in defense of the Earth, p. 81-82)
Yes, for both Heidegger and … __realize a patient equanimity toward Life.__
Our relation to nature should be guided by the artistic - it discloses a particular understanding of the world distinct from an instrumental or technological view
Richard Rojcewicz explains in 06
(Professor of Philosophy at Point Park, “The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger”, , pg. 204-207)
__What is the difference between a …__ from the constellation of truth . . .” (FT, 36/35).
Fighting capitalism fails to solve exploitation – ontological focus on calculative thought is a pre-requisite and sufficient to solve
Mikko Joronen explains in 2011
Mikko, Department of Geography, University of Turku, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe,” Antipode, Vol 00, No 0, pg. 1-2, HC
__The historical emergence of the …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">ordering and production of beings.</span>
===Anthro=== 
=Links – Colonization= 
Space colonization discourse exports anthropocentrism to new worlds and reifies terrestrial exploitation – the alternative is to imagine the global suicide of humanity which shatters their humanist ideology
<span class="Heading2Char">Kochi & Ordan 2008</span> (Tarik, Lecturer in Law and International Security at the University of Sussex, Noam, Bar Ilan University, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity,” Borderlands, Volume 7, Number 3)
<span class="Underline">In 2006 on an Internet forum … have, so far, been unavailing. </span>

=Link – State= 
<span class="Underline">**Their appeal to political action reinforces humanist politics as we know it**</span>
<span class="Underline">Carmen </span><span class="Heading2Char">Dell’Aversano 2010</span><span class="Underline"> (“the love whose name cannot be spoken: queering the human-animal bond” journal for critical animal studies, volume III issue ½ 2010)</span>
<span class="Underline">And reciprocally, everything that concerns … of “a queer oppositional politics” (Edelman 2004: 13).</span>

=Link – War= 
The juridical war language of their impact claims mask the species war at the foundation of the law.
Kochi 9
[tarik, lecturer in law and international security @ U of Sussex, Doctorate in Law from Griffith, “species war: law, violence, and animals”, ‘law, culture, and the humanities’, 353-359]
__In everyday speech, in the …__ of genocide or species war.

=Link – solving problems= 
The aff externalizes violence as a problem to be solved by human agency
Kochi and Ordan 08 (An argument for the global suicide of humanity borderlands, December)
__When thinking about whether the … systematic and institutional speciesist violence__.

=Link – Dehum= 
Must abandon species level thinking – dehumanization impacts --> non-human devaluation – reject speciesm – camps/extinction
Deckha in 2k10
Maneesha, associate professor of law at the University of Victoria, “The Subhuman as a Cultural Agent of Violence”, Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Volume VIII, Issue 3, http://www.criticalanimalstudies.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/JCAS-Special-Issue-Women-of-Color-November-3-FINAL-2010.pdf
__Conclusion – A New Discourse That the … dehumanization, but nonhumans as well__.

The idea of [x] being central does not address the question of how the juridical criterion of what violence matters along species lines
Kochi 9
[tarik, lecturer in law and international security @ U of Sussex, Doctorate in Law from Griffith, “species war: law, violence, and animals”, ‘law, culture, and the humanities’, 353-359]
For Schmitt __the juridical notion …__ of genocide or species war.

=Link – Critical pedagogy= 
Critical pedagogy is blatantly ignorant of non-human life and makes domination by humans inevitable – the essentialism of “resistance” makes success impossible.
Bell and Russel, 2k – (Anne C. Bell, department of education, York University, Canada, and Constance L. Russel, Associate Professor, Faculty of Education, Lakehead University, Co-Editor, Canadian Journal of Environmental Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn,” CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 25, 3 (2000):188–203, http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf DH)
For this reason, the various … __share with their audiences”__ (Harding, 1986, p. 112)








=Impacts= 
and, the impact is an unending political genocide which captures the apparatus of life and death
<span class="Heading2Char">Kochi & Ordan 2008</span> (Tarik, Lecturer in Law and International Security at the University of Sussex, Noam, Bar Ilan University, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity,” Borderlands, Volume 7, Number 3)
__Within the picture many paint … is "an eternal Treblinka"__ (Singer, 1968, p.750).

Human centrism allows us to exploit nature, eventually causing extermination of all life.
Ahkin, 10 – (Melanie Ahkin, Monash University, 2010, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australian Philosophers, a peer reviewed journal of philosophy, http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/archives.html DH)
__These five features provide the …__ of the human centric framework.15

<span class="Underline">Anthropocentrism is THE Original Hierarchy—We NEED Politics That Can Respect More than Human Life. Their Humanist Politics Dooms Us To a Future That Endlessly Repeats the Oppression of the Status Quo. </span>
<span class="Underline">Steven </span><span class="Heading2Char">Best</span><span class="Underline">, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2007</span><span class="Underline"> [JCAS 5.2] </span>
<span class="Underline">While a welcome advance over the … baggage official Chistianithy left behind. </span>

Yes anthro kills animals – billions per year
Deckha in 2k10
Maneesha, associate professor of law at the University of Victoria, “The Subhuman as a Cultural Agent of Violence”, Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Volume VIII, Issue 3, http://www.criticalanimalstudies.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/JCAS-Special-Issue-Women-of-Color-November-3-FINAL-2010.pdf
__One of the most violent …__ and exploitation for human ends.
=Alt= 
Rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics
Hudson 4
Laura, graduate student in Cultural Studies at the University of California, Davis, “The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare Life,” meditations journal, Vol. 23, Issue 2, http://www.mediationsjournal.org/articles/the-political-animal
__In his discussion of religion, …__ future of politics and society?


=AT Util= 
<span class="Underline">**Consequentialism is impossible in a non-speciest framework—instead of satisfying a desire for good consequences, you should affirm a value system beyond humanism.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Eric **Katz**, Director of Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, **1997**</span>
<span class="Underline">[Nature as Subject p. 9-10]</span>
<span class="Underline">Utilitarianism might be salvaged for … , self-defeating trap of utilitarianism </span>

<span class="Underline">**We should give moral consideration to the whole cosmos**</span>
<span class="Underline">Roderick </span><span class="Heading2Char">Nash</span><span class="Underline">, Professor of History and Environmental Studies at UC-SB, </span><span class="Heading2Char">1989</span>
<span class="Underline">[The Rights of Nature p. 157-159] </span>
<span class="Underline">On the other hand some … all outside the environmental context.</span>

=AT Perm= 
<span class="Underline">**Their inclusion of animal life does not decenter their position of humans as central – we need to engage in thoughts of extinction prior**</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Kochi & Ordan 2008</span> (Tarik, Lecturer in Law and International Security at the University of Sussex, Noam, Bar Ilan University, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity,” Borderlands, Volume 7, Number 3)
Generally, the animal rights movement … __center of moral thought, already__.

===Baudrillard=== 
====1NC==== 
The affirmative’s strategy of the subject tries to reclaim humanity’s freedom and subjectivity – reject this in favor of the strategy of the object. The 1AC reinstates a decomposing system.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jean </span><span class="Heading2Char">Baudrillard, Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at the European Graduate School, </span><span class="Heading2Char">1990</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Fatal Strategies, p. 111-13</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only the subject</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">desires; … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">of desire has become myth.</span>

Embrace a strategy of fatality that accepts the fact that our world is mediated by ads, self help books and High School Musical 1, 2 and 3 – this accelerates the system to collapse.
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jean </span><span class="Heading2Char">Baudrillard</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, still very dead, </span><span class="Heading2Char">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">what I have called poetic transference.</span>__

The alternative’s break with hyperreality removes the logic of extermination that permeates the simulacra’s inhabitants. – this drive for sacrifice is internalized in the minds of the subjects.
<span class="Heading2Char">Baudrillard in 88</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [ Jean, dead french dude, America,1988, pg. 40-42 ]</span>
__Everywhere survival has become a burning …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">some protective bubble or other.</span>

====2NC Cards==== 
Even if they access some education, we link turn the end point – it is not applicable in a real world. Academia is sheltered and allows us to ignore the way reality is overdetermined by capital and information – ‘the political’ as they know it doesn’t exist
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Paul </span><span class="Heading2Char">Hegarty 2004</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 7/30 Jean Baudrillard: Live Theory P. 91-93 MRL (Woohoo Wayne State/Michael Leap)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The era of simulation, or … ceremonial edifice of former societies'</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (p. 65; 69).</span>

<span class="Underline">Regulated exchange of otherness and difference mandates terror and annihilation of all radical and absolute otherness. Only by rejecting all chance for encounter can the other remain other, and viral racism be combated.</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Baudrillard in 93</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Jean, dead french dude, The Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-130]</span>
<span class="Underline">What, then, does it mean … the proper use of difference</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
===Realism=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">Biology produces realism</span>
<span class="Underline">Sterling-Folker, ‘9 – Jennifer, associate professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Connecticut (Neoclassical Realism, the State, and Foreign policy, pp 109. Edited by Steven E Lobell, Norrin M Ripsman, Jeffery W Talliaferro (professors of poli sci). )</span>
<span class="Underline">The neoclassical realism of this chapter starts with the observation, confirmed in the ….. Hence realist structural patterns are an essential starting point for analysis. </span>

<span class="Underline">The institutional and normative focus of their no power war contention ignores the centrality of power – the result is anarchy and mass violence, turning solvency. Instead endorse realism.</span>
<span class="Underline">Murray 97 – Professor of Politics at the University of Wales Swansea (Alastair J. H. “Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics” 1997, p. 128-134, MT)</span>
<span class="Underline">It was Niebuhr's work in The Nature and Destiny of Man that established the …. divergent value systems which inform the different actors of the international system.</span>

<span class="Underline">The nexus question of policymaking is which theory of IR one accepts – must be a prior question</span>
<span class="Underline">Chernoff, 2007 (Fred, “Theory and metatheory in international relations: concepts and contending accounts,” p. 36-38, TH)</span>
<span class="Underline">Policy makers are able to decide rationally among the available competing options only …. considers the implications of the dotted line connection between theory and observation.)</span>

==Counterplans== 
===Code of Conduct=== 
====1NC==== 
**Counterplan: The** **United States federal government should initiate a strategic dialogue with other space parties to negotiate a Code of Conduct over acceptable uses of outer space, including an agreement to not engage in intentional behavior to release space debris or other irresponsible behavior, and seek reciprocal, conditional verification agreements with all parties.**

**CP solves risks of weaponization – and locks in US spacepower**
**Krepon, Hitchens and Katz-Hyman, ’11** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Michael Krepon = Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information, Michael Katz-Hyman is research associate for the Space Security. Project of the Henry L. Stimson Center. “Chapter 20: Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We view a code of conduct … drawn together as a coherent regime.</span>

====2NC Code of Conduct - AT Cheating==== 
**Risks of cheating are low – it would be easily detectable. Plus there’s no impact**
**Blazejewski 8** [Kenneth, Master’s Degree in Public Affairs form the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, J.D. from New York University School of Law, “Space Weaponization and US-China Relations, Strategic Studies Quarterly, Spring]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">A third reason for the … , as sugof a surprise Chinese launch.</span>

===Environmental Monitoring=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should increase efforts to use existing earth monitoring systems more efficiently, improve relevant interagency information sharing, leverage international partners' investments in their own systems, and promote research and public private partnerships tailored to meet earth monitoring needs.</span>

<span class="Underline">Counterplan solves the entire aff – the plan’s unilateralism trades off with cooperation turning solvency</span>
<span class="Underline">Pathermore and Rogers, 8/1/11 [ Christine Parthemore is a Fellow at the CNAS. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the CNAS. “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY”. Center for a New American Security. http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. government should take three measures to ensure that it continues to …. information if the U.S. government does not provide the proper guidance.</span>

<span class="Underline">Net benefits – politics and spending</span>
<span class="Underline">Pathermore and Rogers, 8/1/11 [ Christine Parthemore is a Fellow at the CNAS. Will Rogers is a Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the CNAS. “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY”. Center for a New American Security. http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Responding to environmental and climate change trends requires a steady …. U.S. climate and environmental data collection capabilities. </span>
==Disads== 
===1NC Irregular Warfare=== 
Space weaponization kills irregular warfare capability which is key to solve WMD threats from terrorism, rogue states, and failed states and extinction. The plan can’t solve.
**Elhefnawy, ’10** – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review (April 1. Originally published in PARAMETERS, Spring 2003, pp. 124-132. http://naderelhefnawy.blogspot.com/2010/04/four-myths-about-space-power.html)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Some might have us believe … of weapons of mass destruction. </span>

Nuke terror causes extinction
**Speice ‘6** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Patrick F., Jr. "Negligence and nuclear nonproliferation: eliminating the current liability barrier to bilateral U.S.-Russian nonproliferation assistance programs." William and Mary Law Review 47.4 (Feb 2006): 1427(59). Expanded Academic ASAP.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The potential consequences of the … </span>**__the use of nuclear weapons__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. (53)</span>

**Bioterror causes extinction**
**Matheny 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Research associate with the … /publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html] </span>

__Of current **extinction** risks, the **…**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

State failure causes escalating instability, disease, and nuclear war
**African Studies Centre et. al**., 200**3**
<span style="color: #222222;">[African Studies Centre et al, December, The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December,<span style="color: #354258;">[[@http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the malign scenario of … </span>__attacks on their national security.__

Only impacts– shared interests prevent great power conflict
**Gelb 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. He was a senior official in the U.S. Defense Department from 1967 to 1969 and in the State Department from 1977 to 1979 (Leslie, Foreign Affairs, “GDP Now Matters More Than Force: A U.S. Foreign Policy for the Age of Economic Power,” November/December, proquest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also </span>__reducing the likelihood of … well short of direct confrontation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">..</span>
===SKFTA=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">CAPITAL is key</span>
<span class="Underline">WHARTON 1 – 12 – 11 Wharton School’s Online Business Journal – Editorial Post – including the Deupty Dean & Executive Director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Business School</span>
<span class="Underline"> [U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?, http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]</span>
<span class="Underline">The Tea Party Factor During the fall election season, some Democratic and …. foundation of Republican economic and foreign policy for decades.</span>

[Link]

<span class="Underline">Solves North Korea war</span>
<span class="Underline">GERWIN 10 Senior Fellow for Trade and Global Economic Policy</span>
<span class="Underline"> Edward F. Gerwin , Jr., "Guest Contribution: 5 Reasons America Needs Korea Free Trade Deal" Dec 16 blogs.wsj.com/economics/2010/12/16/guest-contribution-5-reasons-america-needs-korea-free-trade-deal/ </span>
<span class="Underline">5. China is Not a Fan. The Korea FTA would solidify America’s strategic relationship with South …. are certainly important, the Korea FTA also includes other “beefy” benefits for American trade. </span>

<span class="Underline">EXTINCTION</span>
<span class="Underline">Hamel-Green and Hayes 10 (Michael, Dean and Prof. Faculty of Arts – Victoria U., and Peter, Nautilus Institute, Special Report 100-001, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 2010, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation…. issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>
====<span class="Underline">Link - Climate Monitoring</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Climate monitoring is unpopular – budget fights</span>
<span class="Underline">Boyle 5/11 (Rebecca, Popular Science, leading source of technology and science news magazine, “As Congress Fusses Over Climate Semantics, the U.S. Faces a Weather Satellite Gap”, 23 May 2011, http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-05/satellite-funding-cuts-us-could-face-weather-satellite-gap, Azizi)</span>
<span class="Underline">This year has seen some phenomenally bizarre weather, from deadly tornadoes ripping …. and long-term weather forecasts that people have come to expect today.”</span>
===<span class="Underline">Politics - cybersecurity</span>=== 

Obama pushing cybersecurity- it solves a bunch of things [econ, infrastructure, cyberattack, china]- capital key to avoid delays and top of the docket
Bloomberg 2-16 ( Napolitano Counters Industry on Cost of Cybersecurity Bill http://news.businessweek.com/article.asp?documentKey=1376-LZHX3K1A74E901-26I0J9DDFA8CK0F625K03P7TFQ (Updates with McCain comments starting in 11th paragraph.))
Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) -- __The Obama administration … so soon after its introduction.__

<span class="Underline">This risks nuclear retaliation and is more probable than any other conflict</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Clarke 9</span><span class="Underline"> - special adviser to the president for cybersecurity in the George W. Bush administration. He is now chairman of Good Harbor Consulting (Richard "War from Cyberspace," The National Interest, December 22, http://nationalinterest.org/article/war-from-cyberspace-3278) ."</span>
<span class="Underline">AS IN the 1960s, the … well respond with "kinetic activity." </span>







===Spending=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">B. LINK – any space program will be expensive – will destroy the budget</span>
<span class="Underline">HSU & COX 09 Ph.D., Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group & Ph.D., Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group</span>
<span class="Underline">(Feng Hsu and Ken Cox, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702) </span>
<span class="Underline">There are limited financial resources from the U.S. government, which is now struggling with unprecedented high budget deficit and is confronted with extremely costly ongoing wars. So it is nearly irresponsible to impose on the nation and its people an Apollo-like, huge spending lunar-based space exploration program. There is neither significant (or short-term) science value nor space exploration and operation value in revisiting an earth-orbit destination that was explored by mankind four decades ago. Given today's decimated American economic condition, we must adapt a concurrent and comprehensive space exploration and space development strategy that is not only affordable but can be mutually supported. </span>

<span class="Underline">Fiscal discipline is key to the economy</span>
<span class="Underline">Murphy 8/7 – graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University with a degree in political science (Conor, 2011, "Dark economic times ahead," http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/political-pro-con/2011/aug/7/debt-federal-reserve-bernake-obama/, RG)</span>
<span class="Underline">While it is obvious that this market uncertainty is almost exclusively related to the national …. for a while, but President Obama and the Congress are running out of road and they still don't see the cliff at the end.</span>

<span class="Underline">C. Economic Collapse risk global nuclear wars and terrorism – also turns every reason in their no great power war advantage</span>
<span class="Underline">Harris and Burrows 09 PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>
<span class="Underline">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the …. both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span class="Underline">terrorism causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Yonah Alexander, Inter-University for Terrorism Studies Director and Professor, WASHINGTON TIMES, August 28, 2003, p. A20. </span>
<span class="Underline">Last week's brutal suicide bombings in Baghdad and Jerusalem have once again …. implications concerning national, regional and global security concerns.</span>
====2NC / 1NR spending cards==== 
A2 spending good:
4. Keynesian economic theory is wrong – recent study
De Rugy and Debnam, ’10 – Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center. Jakina Debnam is a research associate at the Mercatus Center. [Mercatus Center, George Mason University. “ Does Government Spending Stimulate Economies?”. July 14.
http://mercatus.org/publication/does-government-spending-stimulate-economies-0. BDD]
A new study by Harvard … it because money is lost.

5. Even if Keynesian economics is possible it fails under current circumstances – six reasons
de Rugby and Mitchell, 9/12/11 [ Veronique de Rugby and Matthew Mitchell are a senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. “WOULD MORE INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING STIMULATE THE ECONOMY?”. http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf]
Notwithstanding the confidence of stimulus … downturn in the short run.



Link magnifiers:
Now is key to fiscal discipline – failure to establish a precedent snowballs
Mercatus Center, ‘11 – cites Veronique de … turn things around right now.”

Any spending destroys discipline
Williams, 7/5/11 – Armstrong, political commentator and activist and TV and radio host. [“Three Kinds of People”, The Cutting Edge, http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=52334&pageid=16&pagename=Opinion, BDD]
3. Finally, those who do … good about it or not.


It’s not a question of price – discipline is important
Indianapolis Star, 7/5/11 [“Bottom line: We must cut spending”, http://www.indystar.com/article/20110705/OPINION08/107050309/Bottom-line-We-must-cut-spending?odyssey=mod|newswell|text|Opinion|p, BDD]
The federal government in recent … feel in the short term.

Spending destroys discipline
Hurt 2-14-11 [Robert Hurt, Virginia Congressman, “… economic outlook of our country.

New spending in the middle of the year balloons – and even trade-offs don’t prevent it from going against the deficit
Fox News 5/24 (Chad Pergram, 5/24/11, "Natural Disasters Could Challenge Campaign Spending Promises", http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/05/25/natural-disasters-could-challenge-campaign-spending-promises)
It often starts like this. … to recover from the floods.



US key:
A U.S. economic collapse will destroy the global economy
Mead 04 , Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, Foreign Policy,
April 1, pg. Lexis)
Similarly, in the last 60 years, … . U.S. economic might is sticky power.

US Econ Key to Global Econ- Recession proves
Levchenko et al Andrei A. Levchenko, Assistant Professor at University of Michigan Department of Economics and member of National Bureaus of Economic Research, Logan T. Lewis, economist in the International Finance Division at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and Linda L. Tesar, Professor of Economics at University of Michigan, member of member of National Bureaus of Economic Research
(“The Collapse of International Trade During the 2008-2009 Crisis: In Search of the Smoking Gun”, May 5, 2010, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.171.12&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
A remarkable feature of the … the absolute decrease in trade.



Impact stuff:
Growth and fiscal discipline are key to space exploration and development
Elhefnawy, ‘8 – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review ( “Economic growth and space development over the long haul”. June 23. The Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1220/1)
No less important is the … -run demands of space flight.

Economic growth solves warming and the environment – EKC curves
Tierney, 9 – John, columnist [April 20. New York Times. “Use Energy, Get Rich and Save the Planet”. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/21/science/earth/21tier.html]
But among researchers who analyze … is more reliable than a revolution.

Turns warming – tech
Freedman, ‘8 – Andrew, environmental journalist and policy analyst (10/20/08. Washington Post. http://voices.washingtonpost.com/capitalweathergang/2008/10/will_the_climate_benefit_from.html)
Furthermore, It's quite possible that … enact tough new emissions standards.

Economic growth is necessary to solve climate change – developing nations
Klemperer, ‘7 – Paul, Edgeworth Professor of Economics at Oxford University and CEPR Research Fellow 9 [VOX. “What is the top priority on climate change?”. http://www.voxeu.org/index.php?q=node/803]
As the developing world ramps … , and perhaps 100 million are illiterate.

Turns US-Sino relations
Swaine, ’11 – Michael Swaine is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. [The Diplomat. http://the-diplomat.com/whats-next-china/avoiding-us-china-military-rivalry/]
Despite the mostly friendly nature … more long-range, strategic communication.

Turns disease
Griffiths 10 (Meredith, May 29, “Economic downturn hampers AIDS battle”, http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/05/29/2912879.htm)
Aid agency Medecins Sans Frontieres … are in sub-Saharan Africa.

Economic downturn collapse Russian restraint, unleashing a winner-take-all war
Nyquist 8 [J.R., a WorldNetDaily contributing editor and author of 'Origins of the Fourth World War.', “Financial Collapse and Destructive War”, September 19, http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2008/0919.html]
If the United States went … oblivious. They are utterly unprepared.

===1NC No Nuke War=== 
<span class="Underline">Nuke war causes extinction---even a small fraction of weapon use sparks famine and ecological, global climate catastrophe</span>
<span class="Underline">Star 9, University of Sydney, 8/2/09, (Stephen Starr and Peter King, , “Nuclear suicide”, Sunday, 02 August 2009, http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20090208-19496.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">But there is little evidence yet that either the government or the Commission is fully alert … populations could perish, and the populations of any nation dependent upon grain imports would be at risk.</span>

<span class="Underline">Their war defense doesn’t apply to Korea</span>
<span class="Underline">Kissinger 4, Henry A. , Former Secretary of State, 11/8/2004, “America's Assignment,” Newsweek, EBSCO</span>
<span class="Underline">While militant Islam is the most immediate and obvious challenge to international order, nuclear proliferation is the … find specious Islamic justification for unconscionable acts in support of terrorism.</span>
==<span class="Underline">Impacts</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Asteroid strikes good - 1NC</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">Asteroids don’t cause total extinction – history proves</span>
<span class="Underline">Boulter ‘2 – (2005, Michael, professor of paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London, scientist with the Fossil Record 2, the world's largest database of fossil remains, “Extinction, Evolution, and the End of Man,” p. 89-90, DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Evidence now shows that the environmental changes caused by the collision of the Yucatan meteorite were restricted to a very short length of geological time. We think that the whole catastrophe lasted only 10,000 years, with many details of the event preserved in the deposit of iridium layer which I described in chapter 2. When interplanetary dust and iridium and the toxic debris from the fires themselves settled over the Earth’s surface between the Cretaceous and the Tertiary, a layer of these particles sedimented where it could. It was the same layer that Walter and Luis Alvarez first made famous just a quarter of a century ago with their discovery. Elsewhere, the Earth became a much quieter place than at some of the other mass-extinction events, when the sea experienced long crises from other sources such as volcanic activity. At the Permian–Triassic (P–Tr) boundary, 245 million years ago, prolonged lack of oxygen, high temperatures and acid rain caused much more havoc. As an event within a self-organised system, this Cretaceous–Tertiary (K–T) avalanche, 65 million years ago, was small enough to allow the sand pile to return to its earlier shape surprisingly quickly. The sand pile of evolutionary biology continued to build from its own internal forces, despite the big kick from the Chicxulub asteroid. That is shown by The Fossil Record 2 and other data to be interference from outside the system, a kick to the sand pile. Other scientists such as Gould and Eldredge, who support the step-wise Punctuated Equilibria for the evolutionary process, see it as another advance up the slippery pole of evolution. Many organisms were well protected from the mayhem and show no signs of damage or change. They continued their former lives unaffected by the environmental change. On the other hand, when the ecosystem was more disturbed, with frequent upsets as a consequence 90 extinction of the catastrophe, then recuperation was slow, with altered ecosystems and new ecological relationships. These alterations became global and are the most prominent legacy of the dinosaur and ammonite extinctions. But other questions remain. How did the entire biosphere, all the biology and ecology, respond to the extinctions of large organisms like ammonites and dinosaurs? The changes in fauna and flora had effects on the way living organisms were recovering from the traumas of finding themselves with new neighbours, let alone new surroundings. The effect was dramatic for some forms of life while it made little or no impression on others. Nevertheless, numerous new species and genera evolved just after the K–T boundary at the beginning of the Tertiary period. Paleontology textbooks have lots of drawings speculating from skeletal evidence on what the new furry mammals looked like. Their appearance may be uncertain, but there is evidence to show that there were lots of them, new species as well as growing populations of individuals. New Families of land invertebrates, freshwater fish and even lizards took over the free space left by the greedy dinosaurs. Marine fish and plankton diversified just as quickly at the species level, but there was no immediate change in the Family constituency or the individuals’ behaviour. Recovery from the catastrophe in the marine realm was controlled by how and when oxygen returned to the water. There is some debate about what happened. Some of the small shelly zooplankton seem to have lived right through the catastrophe, not to be replaced until there was full recovery. Other kinds of plankton from deeper ocean show a range of different responses. Some groups became extinct, others survived, and the majority radiated as new species, genera and even Families. What’s more, these responses were immediate, and we can see them happening within a few hundred years of one another just after the event itself. </span>


<span class="Underline">Asteroid strikes are key to biodiversity and evoltion</span>
<span class="Underline">Grady 06 – (11/9/06, Monica, professor of planetary and space science at the Open University, UK, meteorite expert, interview with Astrobiology Magazine, “Meteorites: Friend or Foe?” http://www.astrobio.net/pressrelease/2139/meteorites-friend-or-foe DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">AM: Plus, they’re our friends because of the changes they’ve helped to bring about in evolution? MG: The K-T boundary is what people always point to as being caused by a 10 kilometer-sized meteorite. The evolutionary consequences of that were enormous, setting in motion a whole chain of environmental changes -- wildly swinging fluctuations in temperature of the atmosphere, the opacity of the atmosphere, the acidity of the surface waters, and changes which led eventually to the extinction of many species. But it also allowed evolutionary niches to be inhabited and expanded by other species. Change in the balance from vertebrates to mammals occurred at the K-T boundary.</span>

<span class="Underline">B) Empirically strikes cause adaptation and diversity</span>
<span class="Underline">Boulter ‘2 – (2005, Michael, professor of paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London, scientist with the Fossil Record 2, the world's largest database of fossil remains, “Extinction, Evolution, and the End of Man,” p. 45-7, DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">But suddenly, 65 million years ago, the dinosaurs were gone, both the carnivores and the herbivores. Although most plants were burnt to the ground by the fireballs that followed the impact, and although the air was dark and smoky, halting photosynthesis, their roots survived. The environment responded to the crisis and quickly recovered. No longer were the conifers and ferns harvested by these hungry foes, the soil was the richer for the forest debris and its microbiology boomed. The temperature of the atmosphere increased and it started to rain very hard in places where it had been drier. The changing environments encouraged the new flowering plants to evolve very quickly. 46 extinction With warm productive ecosystems on land, in the marine realm phytoplankton were major benefactors from these big environmental changes. Microscopic organisms in the sea, soil and air are especially able to adjust to changes very quickly. Small organisms have a much simpler structure and physiology, more vulnerable to most changes, yet more able to recover quickly. Without oxygen most species became extinct at the C–T and K–T events, but those that didn’t quickly recovered and the empty space helped those species to evolve very quickly. There is a sharp delineation at the boundary where some became extinct and others originated in their place. The algae continued to photosynthesise, gathering energy from the sunlight and converting it into food and oxygen, eating up carbon dioxide in the process, clearly a very important stabilising role in the planet’s environment. They had done this through the Cretaceous and before, so we know a lot about the great diversity of the microscopic creatures. Most small mammals also survived, hiding from the heat, being protected by their own sense of exploration. Within a few years some of the planet’s ecosystems were beginning to host a new range of animals, plants and bugs. Life began to assume a new normality. Most important of all, there was not a serious loss of the range of DNA, so many branches of the tree of life were able to continue and recover from the cull. Out of adversity there is usually opportunity, and there was a really creative aspect of the catastrophe. Those organisms that did survive were able to find new opportunities to express structural adaptations. They were able to evolve through the mixing of genes or their mutations that had been taking place quietly through the millions of years before the cull and immediately afterwards. Because the environment had changed very little before the catastrophe there had been no opportunities for these molecular characteristics to express themselves. Evolution was going on inside the cells, in the genes’ DNA, and was not showing up in structural features like the colour of a mammal’s eyes or a flower’s petals. It was as though a strong genetic metal spring had been winding up, collecting energy for millions of years, and then at an extinction 47 instant was released. It caused quick increases in the species diversity of those animal and plant groups that had been inhibited in the wrong environment with its attendant dominant groups of competitors.</span>

<span class="Underline">C) Key to preserve life on Earth</span>
<span class="Underline">BOULTER 2002 </span>
<span class="Underline">(Michael, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, 183-184)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The system of life on Earth behaves in a similar way for all its measurable variables, whether they are communities or ecosystems. For sand grains, substitute species or genes. For avalanches, substitute extinctions. Power laws tell us that large avalanches or large extinctions are much less common than small ones. The controlling factors for the sand piles are weight and angle of the sides of the pile; for mammals they are space and food within the ecosystem. We can kick the sand pile with our feet, and we can reduce the space and the food by changing the environment. But what would happen to the life-Earth system without these external changes? Could it be like a pile without avalanches, eventually collapsing into white noise? The answer lies in our theory of exponential diversification within macro-evolution; the curve ever rising towards the vertical when the Fossil Record 2 Family data are plotted (see figure 3.5). The situation starts to become critical when numbers rise above a comfortable quantity, whether the system is a pile of sand, cars on a motorway or large mammals in America. If there were no mass extinctions, that exponential curve really could have risen to the truly vertical. It could have happened long ago, and it could happen again if there were no extinctions holding it back from the vertical. If that were so, all life on planet Earth would cease. It would need to start again from scratch.</span>

<span class="Underline">Asteroid strike is key to get off the rock</span>
<span class="Underline">Gilster, ’10 [Paul Gilster, technology and space writer for 20 years. “Tracking Research into Deep Space Exploration”. http://www.centauri-dreams.org/?p=16018]</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Why write about this in the context of space exploration? Because Hickman wants to understand why we pay so little heed to the technologies that could save our planet from extinction from the likes of a rogue asteroid. We see small catastrophes and large around us, from the 100 million who died at the hands of war, genocide and famine in the twentieth century to the hundreds of millions affected each decade by earthquakes, floods and hurricanes. But our own survival is assumed. Writes Hickman: Recent events such as the 2005 Indian Ocean tsunami, the 2008 tropical cyclone in the Irrawaddy River Delta, and the 2010 earthquake in Haiti which each killed more than 200,000 people provide powerful reminders of the vulnerability of our species to natural disasters. What they have not done is increase awareness of human vulnerability to extinction. Interviews with people who had managed to cheat fate by surviving catastrophes do not incline viewers to consider the possibility of a global catastrophe without human survivors. News audiences around the planet learned about each of these events via television news coverage, which means that the emotional impact of each event was cushioned by the medium's entertaining and anesthetizing unreality. If these tragedies were rendered to that degree unreal then the possibility of human extinction must seem impossible. Thus it is that, while we know about the risk of impacts from space and have funded efforts to detect incoming debris, we have yet to devise a well-funded solution to prevent such an impact. Having little experience with truly existential threats, and having seen nothing but the excavations at scattered sites like those above to remind us how a culture can collapse and disappear, we fail to accept the severity of long-term risk. Hickman thinks we're hard-wired to recognizing only the immediate, a consequence of evolving in environments that did not demand a longer perspective. Rather than evolve a general perception of risk and a rational calculation of relative risk, our 150 millennia living as hunter-gatherers and the most recent 2 millennia living as farmers prepared us to deal with only some kinds of risk. We respond strongly to those with a high probability of occurring rather than to those with a low or unknown probability of occurring. Warfare, subsistence failure and cooperation failure have produced an animal that is equipped with "specific cognitive adaptations for perceiving cues regarding the likelihood and magnitude of adverse events" and for making rapid decisions based on "risk-risk" trade-off calculations. And so it is that three million Italians continue to live around the Bay of Naples near Mt. Vesuvius, the consequences of whose historical eruptions are available for all to see in the ruins of Pompeii. People live by the millions along fault lines in California that could spawn catastrophic earthquakes, coping with a threat of extinction that is, in many ways, too abstract to visualize. We get on with daily life. Our perception is deeply human and understandable, and it offers a recipe for playing down security for future generations in favor of proceeding with today and stressing how infrequently catastrophes occur. Short-term means getting through a finite lifespan, and it doesn't extend to the kind of lapidary effort that builds a safer future for generations beyond. It's a difficult truth to acknowledge, but it seems to be part of human nature. Our innate assessment of risk means we have a steep wall to climb to promote the well-being of our distant descendants, and that makes even the most basic attempts to survey the population of near-Earth objects a matter of constant watchfulness to ensure the continuation of funding. Getting into space to prevent an asteroid strike that might not occur for millennia is a hard sell, and so is establishing a space presence to ensure species survival in case anything happens to our planet. Read the excerpt from Hickman's book and you'll understand why it may take a near-fatal event (think of the survivable asteroid strike in Clarke's Rendezvous with Rama) to make long-term danger immediate and reinvigorate our will to master space technologies. </span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Gott 9 – J. Richard Gott, Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton University, July 17, 2009, “A GOAL FOR THE HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT PROGRAM,” online: http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">The goal of the human spaceflight program should be to increase the survival prospects of the human race by colonizing space. Self-sustaining colonies in space, which could later plant still other colonies, would provide us with a life insurance policy against any catastrophes which might occur on Earth. Fossils of extinct species offer ample testimony that such catastrophes do occur. Our species is 200,000 years old; the Neanderthals went extinct after 300,000 years. Of our genus (Homo) and the entire Hominidae family, we are the only species left. Most species leave no descendant species. Improving our survival prospects is something we should be willing to spend large sums of money on— governments make large expenditures on defense for the survival of their citizens. The Greeks put all their books in the great Alexandrian library. I’m sure they guarded it very well. But eventually it burnt down taking all the books with it. It’s fortunate that some copies of Sophocles’ plays were stored elsewhere, for these are the only ones that we have now (7 out of 120 plays). We should be planting colonies off the Earth now as a life insurance policy against whatever unexpected catastrophes may await us on the Earth. Of course, we should still be doing everything possible to protect our environment and safeguard our prospects on the Earth. But chaos theory tells us that we may well be unable to predict the specific cause of our demise as a species. By definition, whatever causes us to go extinct will be something the likes of which we have not experienced so far. We simply may not be smart enough to know how best to spend our money on Earth to insure the greatest chance of survival here. Spending money planting colonies in space simply gives us more chances--like storing some of Sophocles’ plays away from the Alexandrian library. If we made colonization our goal, we might formulate a strategy designed to increase the likelihood of achieving it. Having such a goal makes us ask the right questions. Where is the easiest place in space to plant a colony—the place to start? Overall, Mars offers the most habitable location for Homo sapiens in the solar system outside of Earth, as Bruce Murray has noted. Mars has water, reasonable gravity (1/3rd that of the Earth), an atmosphere, and all the chemicals necessary for life. Living underground (like some of our cave dwelling ancestors) would lower radiation risks to acceptable levels. The Moon has no atmosphere, less protection against solar flares and galactic cosmic rays, harsher temperature ranges, lower gravity (1/6th that of the Earth), and no appreciable water. Asteroids are similar. The icy moons of Jupiter and Saturn offer water but are much colder and more distant. Mercury and Venus are too hot, and Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are inhospitable gas giants. Free floating colonies in space, as proposed by Gerard O’Neill, would need material brought up from planetary or asteroid surfaces. If we want to plant a first permanent colony in space, Mars would seem the logical place to start.</span>
===<span class="Underline">Asteroid strikes good - 1NR ecosystems / defense</span>=== 
<span class="Underline"> Even if asteroids cause human extinction preserving the global life-system is more important</span>
<span class="Underline"> BOULTER 2002 (Michael, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, 193)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> It’s a hollow feeling to think of this Earth without humanity: vast tracts of beauty without our eyes to behold. More difficult for the biologist to contemplate is the fact that the most complex group of creatures ever to have evolved has fallen into extinction. We have grown up to give reverence to the advanced characters of Homo sapiens, and now we know they were flawed. It seems that the largest genomes, the most complex physiology and neurology don’t guarantee a permanent place on the throne of biodiversity. What we naıvely saw as an evolving hierarchy does not have ourselves, the human race, in its upper branches. The whole tree needs equal respect for all its parts. </span>

<span class="Underline"> Even extinction events much bigger than any asteroid ever didn’t kill all life – impacts are crucial to the development of complexity.</span>
<span class="Underline">Boulter ‘2 – (2005, Michael, professor of paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London, scientist with the Fossil Record 2, the world's largest database of fossil remains, “Extinction, Evolution, and the End of Man,” p. 60-2, DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">As well as the meteorites colliding with the Earth to mark the end of the Cretaceous and Permian periods, another much bigger collision occurred earlier. It happened about 4,500 million years ago, just 50 a system out of chaos 61 million years after the formation of the Earth and Mars, well before life began. Paradoxically, the evidence for this new idea comes not from the Earth, but from the moon. The US Apollo moon missions of 1969–72 are rated among the highest of human achievements. The live television coverage of the moon landings and re-launches, the technology, and the emotion of ‘one giant step for mankind’ rank high in the annals of the last century. In contrast, it’s interesting that so little publicity has been given to the results from the scientific studies of the rocks collected. For they are even more exciting than anyone imagined, and offer an explanation of how life came to be here on Earth. Studies of the rock samples brought back from the moon made through the 1970s and 80s gave a range of opposing interpretations and arguments. Since then, the work has established a theory accepted by most of the participants, that the moon came from the Earth. The theory led on to speculation that the Pacific Ocean is so big because it is where the biggest impact of all happened. Just after the formation of the solar system another important event happened. Astrophysicists tell us that an asteroid or planet about the size of Mars gave our early planet an oblique glancing blow. The energy released from the impact melted the Earth into layers: atmosphere, mantle and core. The atmosphere comprised water vapour, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, xenon, argon and helium, the core iron and nickel, and the mantle basalt and silicates. The force of the blow on the molten mantle caused a large chunk to splash out. This mass began to orbit the planet, forming our moon. We know it from the rocks brought back by the Apollo crew. Earth rocks of such an extreme age have long since moved back into the Earth’s crust down below the tectonic plates, or more simply eroded or weathered into dust. On the static moon they were preserved, changing only in daily temperature. The moon event determined the rest of the Earth’s history. Before the impact the early planet had static climates, from the poles to the Equator, the same throughout the year. Things never changed and there 62 extinction were no seasons. This was because the planet’s axis of rotation was truly vertical. The force of the huge impact knocked this to one side, causing the axis to tilt, at present 23.4° from the upright. This angle of obliquity changes through different times, causing oscillations through several thousands and maybe millions of years. The shift in the angle of rotation means that one side of the planet is nearer the sun for half the year, and has summer. The other side has winter, though around the Equator there is little change. Seasonal changes in climate had begun, and had happened by a random event, one big astronomical object crashing into another. Energy was being worked into this new world. The then living system began to run itself and self-adjust to internal and external changes, just like many other things in nature – your own physiology, for example. These developments in the universe gathered pace because the expansion outwards created regions of different densities. Gas clouds condensed to give galaxies and further concentrations of gas spun round with increasing force to form stars. They were like clouds in a storm, instead forming stars and their systems in each galaxy. In turn, each of these underwent a period of stability characterised by the physical properties of the galaxies. As the universe and the galaxies and the stars became more complex, the systems showed patterns of random distribution of matter between the explosions after the Big Bang. In system Earth there is a major transition caused by changing environments giving a new kind of order. Changing environments on a planet with water, atmosphere and carbon compounds can create life and evolution. For these systems to survive, let alone develop, catastrophes become essential features within the complex processes. They initiate progress on the planet from simplicity to complexity and are driven forward by the reactions from inside the system. They have the ability to change the noise from the boring unstructured hiss of white noise to the beauty and orderly complexity of a Bach concerto</span>

<span class="Underline">Asteroids are beneficial for the development of life and the planet</span>
<span class="Underline">Chapman, aff author, 03 – (2/10/03, Clark, scientist at the Southwest Research Institute's Department of Space Studies, member of the MSI/NIS (imaging/spectrometer) team of the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) mission to Eros, “Great Impact Debates: The Benefits of Hard Bodies,” http://www.astrobio.net/debate/373/the-benefits-of-hard-bodies DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Clark Chapman: Here I differ with Benny Peiser. Even the catastrophic influence of asteroids has been mainly beneficial to mankind. We mammals have definitely benefited from the evolutionary competition unleashed 65 million years ago when the Chicxulub impact caused the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) mass extinction of dinosaurs and other dominant species. My understanding of the post-Cambrian (last ~600 million years) evolution of life on this planet is that evolution has been profoundly influenced by major epochs of sudden upheaval due to mass extinctions. According to the hypothesis of David Raup of the University of Chicago, these mass extinctions may well have been due to comet and asteroid impacts. All signs point to an impact as the cause of the Permian extinction (the greatest-ever mass-extinction), as well as lesser ones like the K/T extinction. While such events have wiped out many species of life, they have provided the environmental niches for evolutionary change. As the late Stephen Jay Gould argued, evolution favors the more randomly selected species that are able to adapt to unexpected sudden changes rather than those that slowly evolve in competition with their competitors in a nearly constant world. I would expect Benny Peiser to applaud this attribute of impacts. In any case, I agree that we should avoid becoming the next dinosaurs. But I hope and expect that no major impacts will happen during the present century.</span>

<span class="Underline">The ash and darkness caused by an asteroid is good for tons of plant life.</span>
<span class="Underline">Boulter ‘2 – (2005, Michael, professor of paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London, scientist with the Fossil Record 2, the world's largest database of fossil remains, “Extinction, Evolution, and the End of Man,” p. 92-4, DH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Hundreds of thousands of pollen and spores are usually preserved in a few millimetres’ thickness of sediment, each giving a clear identity of their parent plant. Diagrams of the results from counts just above the ash layer in North America and Europe show lots of fern spores and little else. This makes sense, because after forest fires, ferns are usually the first colonisers. You also find them just after volcanic eruptions, and they were first to grow in European bombsites after the Second World War. They like the ash in the soil and they have no problems with low-light regimes. Huge databases have been created from this work on pollen and spores, and my research group is using some of them to test our ideas of evolutionary biology. From these data we looked at the changes in the fossil pollen through the last 65 million years, and to check their validity we set the patterns emerging against those from very different disciplines such as sedimentology and climatology. The pollen databases confirm the rise of deciduous trees and shrubs, especially broad-leaved trees such as oak and lime. These plants also diversified as species and genera 65 to 55 million years ago, during the Paleocene (see figure 1.2). The same interval saw the beginning of the great mixed conifer and broadleaf forests that began to cover the higher latitudes of the northern hemisphere. In other parts of the world there is much slower diversification in early tropical rainforest, warm-temperate floras, and in the more temperate ecosystems in the south. All the evidence points to a to a global expansion of forests at the time, in the number both of species and of individual shrubs and trees in these vast terrestrial ecosystems. It was the time of the highest growth in biodiversity that the planet has ever experienced </span>

<span class="Underline"> Humans will be among the survivors –</span>
<span class="Underline">a) technology</span>
<span class="Underline">POWERS 2002 </span>
<span class="Underline">(Lawrence, Professor of Natural Sciences, Oregon Institute of Technology, The Chronicle of Higher Education, August 9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Mass extinctions appear to result from major climatic changes or catastrophes, such as asteroid impacts. As far as we know, none has resulted from the activities of a species, regardless of predatory voracity, pathogenicity, or any other interactive attribute. We are the first species with the potential to manipulate global climates and to destroy habitats, perhaps even ecosystems -- therefore setting the stage for a sixth mass extinction. According to Boulter, this event will be an inevitable consequence of a "self-organized Earth-life system." This Gaia-like proposal might account for many of the processes exhibited by biological evolution before man's technological intervention, but ... the rules are now dramatically different. ... Many species may vanish, ... but that doesn't guarantee, unfortunately, that we will be among the missing. While other species go bang in the night, humanity will technologically isolate itself further from the natural world and will rationalize the decrease in biodiversity in the same manner as we have done so far. I fear, that like the fabled cockroaches of the atomic age, we may be one of the last life-forms to succumb, long after the "vast tracts of beauty" that Boulter mourns we will no longer behold vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.</span>

<span class="Underline">b) adaptability</span>
<span class="Underline">ROSE 2004 (Michael, UC Irvine, The Historian, Sept 22)</span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">He may well be right about our immediate extinction, but this bookdoes not amount to a lawyer's brief for his conclusion. One would have to accept his Spenglerian sense of inevitability to be affrighted by his reasoning. It is important to realize that his morbid inference applies with equal force to every ungulate, great ape, and bear on the planet. Boulter's interpretation of the fossil data is that all large mammals are about to go extinct, including humans. He does not address the substantial difference between humans and other large mammals with respect to adaptability. He hardly considers the alternativeview that the human species is an ineradicable scourge for the planet, given our ability to live in a wide diversity of habitats while feeding on a broad spectrum of species, from vegetables to vertebrates.Boulter repeatedly fails to address obvious arguments against his thesis. This is a pity because there is no more important issue than the continued survival of our species.</span>

<span class="Underline"> c) bunkers</span>
<span class="Underline"> Jason G. Matheny 07, Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 2007 (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>

<span style="font-size: 1pt;">Perhaps more cost effective than building refuges in space would be building them on Earth. Elaborate bunkers exist for government leaders to occupy during a nuclear war (McCamley, 2007). And remote facilities are planned to protect crop seeds from "nuclear war, asteroid strikes, and climate change" (Hopkin, 2007). But I know of no self-sufficient, remote, permanently occupied refuge meant to protect humanity from a range of possible extinction events. Hanson (2007) argues that a refuge permanently housing as few as 100 people would significantly improve the chances of human survival during a range of global catastrophes. The Americas and Polynesia were originally populated by fewer than 100 founders (Hey, 2005 ; Murray-McIntosh et al., 1998 ). Although it would take thousands of years for 100 people to repopulate Earth, this would be a small setback compared to extinction.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Asteroid strikes good - 1NR space colonization</span>=== 
<span class="Underline"> Motivation > capability</span>
<span class="Underline">Elhefnawy, ‘8 – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review ( “Economic growth and space development over the long haul”. June 23. The Space Review. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1220/1) </span>
<span style="font-size: 1pt;">No less important is the expansion of the economic base that would have to support such endeavors, a point which rarely gets much attention. There is an obvious reason why that approach is often ignored: the common claim that the limits to growth on Earth mandate a turn to the exploitation of space. (Such arguments are not exclusive to the writers of the 1970s. John S. Lewis posits that the failure to do so will mean “civilization collapses to subsistence agriculture by 2030” in his 1996 book Mining the Sky.) However, this is far from being the only reason. The plain truth is that relying on terrestrial economic expansion to endow us with the resources for eventual space expansion will mean admitting the most exciting things are further off than we would like, outside the time frame of “meaningful” discussions of what public policy should be or what private business can do. Besides, it makes for a less compelling and attractive story than the idea of a technological revolution just over the horizon that opens up the heavens to all of us—especially if one is a market romantic when it comes to these matters (see “Market romanticism and the outlook for private space development”, The Space Review, September 2, 2008). Nonetheless, that is what one would have to assume given the state of the art. Additionally, however, while space launch costs (and other, related costs) may drop in real terms in the coming decades, it is safe to say that any viable future spacefaring society will also see them drop markedly in relative terms. The United Nations predicts the rise of Gross World Product (GWP) to about $140 trillion by 2050, more than twice today’s level, and this is still rather conservative next to some previous periods of comparable length. A repeat of the growth of 1950–1990, for instance, would likely result in a GWP in the $250–350 trillion range. And of course, if one goes in for that sort of thinking, the growth we could realize if the predictions of futurists like Ray Kurzweil pan out would absolutely explode those numbers. Of course, some caution is in order. Given the challenges the world now faces, including tight energy supplies, ecological degradation, and financial instability (and the huge uncertainties involved in not just space, but other technologies like molecular engineering and robotics), it is easy to picture even the modest numbers supplied by the UN proving overoptimistic. Additionally, even if these levels of income actually are attained (and the possibility is certainly worth considering), one should not get carried away in fantasizing about their significance. Joseph Schumpeter once considered the prospect of a per capita U.S. GDP of $1300 ($16,700 in today’s dollars) in 1978. It seemed obvious to him that at such a level of income: all the desiderata that have so far been espoused by any social reformers—practically without exception, including even the greater part of the cranks—either would be fulfilled automatically or could be fulfilled without significant interference with the capitalist process. Put more plainly, he argued that “this would do away with anything that according to present standards could be called poverty, even in the lowest strata of the population.” Schumpeter’s scenario was both overly pessimistic, and overly optimistic. As it turned out, the US economy grew far more rapidly than that. By 1978 America’s per capita GDP was about fifty percent higher than in his prediction, some $25,000. However, the utopian results he described did not come about. Indeed, it is worth noting that Botswana and Estonia today meet the level of economic development he described. No one considers either of those countries to be anything close to “poverty-free”. This danger of overestimating the significance of a given level of income certainly carries over to discussions of how large a space program a country (or the international community as a whole) can afford. US GDP in 1970 was roughly forty percent what it is today, but the NASA budget is actually a little smaller. Clearly, growth alone (at least as conventionally measured) did not suffice to fund a more ambitious space program. Nonetheless, even if one should not get carried away by seemingly staggering numbers, the fact of higher output still means an enlarged range of options. Just as China’s economic growth has made its new ambitions in space more than just a dream (even if many of its plans have yet to prove to be realistic), a space project of any given size would seem far more affordable in a world where global wealth had risen by a factor of two, three, or five. This will especially be the case if all that growth has developed along with fiscal sanity, poverty reduction, and better resource management—the failure to achieve which has been the Achilles’ heel of growth in recent decades. (To give just one example, the net financial liabilities of the Group of Seven industrial countries quadrupled as a share of their GDP between 1974 and 2006, tightening their budgets even as their economies got much bigger, according to the Canadian Ministry of Finance.) In the end, rather than banking on space as a way out of Earth’s short-run problems, solving those problems here on Earth, with the resources at hand, is likely to be crucial to meeting the long-run demands of space flight. </span>




==Specific Rounds== 
===Wake Forest Round 1 v. Bishop Guertin (Space Mil)=== 
T - peaceful
Code of Conduct CP (2NR)
Irregular Warfare DA (2NR)
Heidegger criticism
===Wake Forest Round 3 v. Spanish River? (Spy Satellites - Biopolitics/Levinas)=== 
T - Framework
T - Subtantial
Baudrillard criticism (2NR)
Heg Good DA
Biopower good
Util
===Wake Forest Round 5 v. Johns Creek (Sci Fi)=== 
T - beyond
T - Framework (2NR)
Heidegger criticism
Cap Good (2NR)
Liberal Democracy Good (2NR)
===Wake Forest Octas v. Thomas Johnson (Discovery)=== 
T - Substantial
Privatization CP (2NR)
SKFTA DA (2NR)
Heidegger criticism
===MBA Round 1 v. Greenhill (Space Guard)=== 
T - Human
EIS CP
Politics - Payroll Tax Cut
Security K (2NR)
Case
===MBA Round 4 v. Bellarmine (Space Weapons)=== 
T - peaceful? or humans?
Security K
Soft Power DA (2NR)
Irreg. Warfare DA
Case (2NR)
===MBA Round 5 v. (Property Rights)=== 
T - It's/Increase/Development
Anthro K
U.N. CP
Unilat bad DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

====1NC AT Climate Migrants==== 
ZERO evidence to support aff claims
Raleigh, et al, 2007, Clionadh Raleigh, University of Essex Centre for the Study of Civil War- International Peace Research Institute, Lisa Jordan, Florida State University, Idean Salehyan, University of North Texas, 2007, (Assessing the Impact of Climate Change on Migration and Conflict commissioned by the World Bank Group for the "Social Dimensions of Climate Change" workshop)
Much of the available literature … conflict has not been done.

The types of Climate Migration that occur won’t cause conflict
Barnett, et al, 2009, Jon Barnett, Australian Research Council Fellow and reader in the Department of Resource Management and Geography at the University of Melbourne University and Michael Webber, Department of Resource Management and Geography, The University of Melbourne, March 2009, (For the Accommodating Migration to Promote Adaptation to Climate Change, The Commission on Climate Change and Development, http://www.ccdcommission.org/Filer/documents/Accommodating%20Migration.pdf)
The impacts of climate change … the risk of violent conflict.

Even if climate migrants cause conflict – checks prevent escalation of conflicts
Barnett, et al, 2009, Jon Barnett, Australian Research Council Fellow and reader in the Department of Resource Management and Geography at the University of Melbourne University and Michael Webber, Department of Resource Management and Geography, The University of Melbourne, March 2009, (For the Accommodating Migration to Promote Adaptation to Climate Change, The Commission on Climate Change and Development, http://www.ccdcommission.org/Filer/documents/Accommodating%20Migration.pdf)
There is insufficient evidence to … that benefit locals as well.