====[[toc]]==== 
=Affirmative= 
for aff cites: [[mailto:bennettproxy7@gmail.com|bennettproxy7@gmail.com]]
==<span style="font-size: 10px;">1AC Greenhill</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 10px;">The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights for helium-3 mining.</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Hatch 10 (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010), 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">While the notion of traveling to the Moon to secure a rare isotope, which may help an experimental, untested, and dangerous energy source, may sound not only impractical but insane, states are currently discussing and planning for exploratory trips to the Moon to investigate mining Helium-3. n57 The status of these programs will be briefly sketched below. n58 Suffice it to say that the pursuit of Helium-3 is no pipe dream. While going to the Moon to power the Earth may seem like a desperate measure, we certainly live in increasingly desperate times. Regardless of whether the Moon is able to aid humanity in solving the impending energy crisis, the satellite will have further importance as states begin evaluating the feasibility of space colonization. While space colonization may seem like the stuff of pulp science fiction, states are actually considering attempting to build Moon bases and, in turn, populating Mars. n59 The International Space Station is a preliminary venture to determine the long-term effects of living outside the confines of the Earth. n60 Additionally, the Moon may be able to furnish valuable mineral ores not commonly found on the Earth. n61 As a result, a number of states are in the initial stages of planning on [*237] visiting the Moon to reap its potential benefits. n62 For these reasons, a new space race is about to commence, which will lead not only to competition on the Earth but to a jockeying for power in space and on the Moon itself. As a result, the law of outer space, and particularly of the Moon, is more relevant now than at any time since the end of the Cold War. B. The Coming Politics of the Moon - Dramatis Personae Probably more relevant than the substance of whether Helium-3 will be a viable solution to the world's energy problems is the fact that the most powerful nations on Earth believe that it is. Before surveying the relevant law that governs the Moon, it is instructive to know who the players in the new space race will be. In this section, I will briefly assess the current status of each spacefaring state's n63 publicly stated intentions regarding the Moon.1. The United States of America The United States of America is a key player in the future of the Moon. Of all spacefaring nations, only the United States has actually had its citizens reach the Moon. The first Moon landing was made on July 20, 1969. n64 The United States made several return visits later in 1969, 1971, and 1972. n65 No humans have set foot on the Moon since 1972. n66 On January 14, 2004, United States President George W. Bush announced a "new vision" n67 for space exploration. This vision included a commitment to return to the Moon between 2015 and 2020. n68 During this time, astronauts would be "living and working [on the Moon] for increasingly extended [*238] periods." n69 This increased human presence on the Moon would serve as an "important step for ... more ambitious missions," beginning with a visit to the planet Mars. n70 Towards this end, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") announced plans for a permanent lunar base on December 5, 2006. n71 NASA's goal was to permanently staff this base by 2024. n72 The staff would have "rotated in and out, as is done with the international space station." n73 To achieve this return to the Moon, NASA began the Constellation Program: a program that would develop both a new series of rockets as well as a new type of spacecraft that would be more conducive to travel to the Moon. n74 The Constellation Program would consequently signal the end of NASA's focus on the space shuttle program. n75 One of NASA's explicitly stated aims for this planned return to the Moon was to "establish one or more alternative energy sources for Earth based on lunar resources. Potential energy sources include Helium-3 mining for use in fusion reactors on Earth and supplying materials and components for assembly and operation of space solar power satellites ... ." n76 NASA's lunar ambitions have suffered a setback following the accession of the administration of President Barack Obama. Shortly after his inauguration, the President summoned a panel of experts unaffiliated with NASA to review the agency's lunar ambitions. n77 In September 2009, that panel argued that the Obama administration should reject plans for a return to the Moon based on high costs associated with the trip. n78 Additionally, the President's proposed [*239] Congressional budget for 2011 includes $ 2.5 billion for the purpose of ending the Constellation Program. n79 Dire as this may look for the future prospects of an American return to the Moon, a few observations must be made. First, there is reason to believe that the budgetary projection may not actually be the final word on the future of American lunar ambitions. During the 2008 presidential campaign, then Senator Obama stated that he intended to divert funding for the Constellation Program to public education, while ten months later he advocated increasing NASA's budget to facilitate its lunar ambitions. n80 While this inconsistency is reflective of the difficulty inherent in establishing a workable political platform, it also reflects the problem in striking the correct balance between the need to have a hand in the future of lunar resources while trying to keep costs manageable. As a result, it is entirely possible that this balance may again be reconsidered and that, as a result, the Constellation Program may continue. It is also worth noting that NASA's current administrator has made statements that the Constellation Program will be replaced by a new program focused on a Mars landing without visiting the Moon. n81 It is difficult to understand how this program will succeed without the budget of the Constellation Program or without using the Moon as an intermediate launching point for future Mars visits (which was one of the goals of the Constellation Program n82). Ultimately, if NASA has serious desires to explore deeper into the solar system, it is probable that this exploration will be made possible only by a revival of a program designed to place humans on the Moon. Furthermore, it must be noted that, irrespective of American decisions, the rest of the countries described in this section remain committed to landing on the Moon and exploiting its resources. It is in the national security, energy, and economic interests of the United States to have a hand in the disposition of the lunar resources that the other great powers will be seeking. Consequently, the remainder of this Comment will operate under the assumption that the present budgetary situation will be soon remedied, and that [*240] the United States will again allocate the money necessary to explore and develop lunar resources. n83 2. The Russian Federation Until recently, Russia was the only country, other than the United States, that had actually sponsored manned spaceflight. The Soviet Union was responsible for the first artificial satellite to orbit the Earth as well as the first animal space test in 1957. n84 While Russia has never landed a person on the Moon, the Kremlin has announced plans to put a cosmonaut on the Moon by 2025, with a permanent Moon base to follow shortly thereafter. n85 Apparently, Russia had offered to have a cooperative Moon base with the United States, but its offer was rejected, n86 although further details as to why have not been made available. n87 Russia has openly admitted that its aims for lunar exploration are tied to the extraction of Helium-3. n88 Moreover, individuals within the Russian government have questioned American motives and suggested that NASA's Constellation Program's true lunar aim is Helium-3 extraction. n89 Erik Galimov of the Russian Academy of Sciences seemed to best articulate what the Kremlin was thinking, when he opined that NASA's plan would "enable the US to establish its control of the energy market 20 years from now and put the rest of the world on its knees as hydrocarbons run out." n90 3. The People's Republic of China On October 15, 2003, China became the third country to successfully put a human into outer space. n91 China intends to have a permanent facility that orbits the Moon by 2020 n92 and to conduct a moonwalk by 2024. n93 China views the exploration of the Moon as competitive and beneficial, as made clear by Ouyang Ziyuan, the head of the Chinese lunar program, when he stated: "We will provide the most reliable report on helium-3 to mankind... . Whoever first conquers the moon will benefit first." n94 According to Ouyang, "when obtaining nuclear power from helium-3 becomes a reality, the resource on the moon can be used to generate electricity for more than 10,000 years for the whole world." n95 4. Europe While the only states that have placed humans in outer space are the United States, Russia, and China, they are not the only members of the club of spacefaring states. The nations of Europe, while not technically a state, do share a number of common agencies, one of which is the European Space Agency ("ESA"). n96 Although the ESA is not affiliated with the European Union, the members of the ESA include nearly all Western European states. n97 The ESA has ambitions to not only send humans into space but also to participate in the development of the Moon. [*242] The ESA launched its first lunar satellite in September 2003. n98 The satellite's mission was successfully completed upon its planned crash into the Moon's surface in September 2006. n99 This first, small step for the ESA will not be the last. The ESA's new Aurora Programme is an international effort with the purpose of deploying humans and robots on the Moon and Mars in the foreseeable future. n100 Part of this development will be the construction of lunar bases. According to the current schedule, the ESA will construct a "global robotic village" on the Moon in 2016, to be followed in eight years by a manned base. n101 5. The Republic of India India, like China, has both an overpopulation problem n102 and an ambitious design on space. India successfully launched its first lunar probe in November 2008. n103 It intends to conduct its first manned spaceflight by 2014 and a manned lunar mission by 2020, which would put India ahead of regional rival China in reaching the Moon. n104 While India is motivated by the potential for Helium-3 mining, its space development has an additional focus - national security. n105 India's Chief of the Army Staff stated that the space race between India and China needed to be accelerated so that India could counter Chinese attempts to militarize space. n106 6. Japan Japan launched lunar probes in 2007, n107 and one Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency ("JAXA") official has been quoted as saying that "the [*243] building of a manned moon base is part of our long-term plan, looking to about 20 years from now." n108 A plan to have a Moon base in place by 2025 was submitted to the Japanese government in 2005. n109 However, funding difficulties may delay or defeat Japanese lunar ambitions. n110 7. Summary All of the leading world powers, and those states which aspire to enter "great power" status, are interested in the Moon. Given the American rejection of proposed Russian cooperation and the statements by the Indian military chief of staff, it is clear that the controversial theories about Helium-3 and fusion are leading to a global space race, with at least the head of the Chinese lunar program convinced that the first one there will win the prize. n111 Yet, getting to the Moon is just the first step. As one article has put it, there will be a lunar land grab. n112 With as many as five or six players, the Moon has the potential to be the battleground for the next "Great Game." n113 As in any other game, there need to be mutually agreed upon rules that will guide players' conduct. The only problem is that the current body of law that regulates outer space is ill-suited to provide a functional set of rules for the disposition of the Moon, as Part II will demonstrate.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Hatch 10 (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010), 24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Noting the substantive problems presented by the text of both the OST and the Moon Agreement, this section will address the second of two major policy problems presented by an ineffective governance regime for the Moon: the danger that ineffective regulation will lead to neo-imperialist political and military conflict. In the imperialist era when the major Western powers and Japan were carving the rest of the world into colonies and spheres of influence, international law (in the state it existed at the time) recognized the validity of the title to such holdings on the theory of acquisition by discovery. For acquisition by discovery to be valid, the property being acquired must have been, at the instant prior to discovery, a res nullius, defined as "a thing or territory belonging to no one[], a "hitherto unknown territory ... .'" n195 Under this logic, indigenous inhabitants of such areas did not count - only civilized states could acquire through discovery. n196 The notion of res nullius comes originally from Roman law, where the term referred to "a heterogeneous category which included wild animals, abandoned [*259] property, and "divine' things." n197 Res nullius could be acquired through occupatio, the rule that "the first taker of ownerless property (res nullius) becomes its owner." n198 Today, unowned areas cannot be acquired through discovery or first use, n199 primarily because "developing nations became concerned that richer countries would dominate the resources that lay as yet unclaimed by any sovereign... . By the time the developing world gained the wherewithal to reach the resources of the ocean beds, outer space, and Antarctica, those resources would already be claimed." n200 By rejecting res nullius and its corresponding mode of acquisition through discovery, the alternative position of res communes became accepted in the law of international common spaces. Res communes is characterized by the notion that the real estate or object was "common to all men ... such things could not be owned ... ." n201 This notion gave rise to the Common Heritage Doctrine described above. Yet, regardless of whether the language is res nullius or res communes, the existence of a vast, unowned, but claimable area of resource-rich land will inevitably spawn political conflict. n202 At first glance, this might appear to be counter-intuitive: the logic of res communes would seem to suggest that when a proprietary claim is disallowed, states would have no reason to have conflicts over an unownable entity. n203 One example of the success of res communes with respect to conflict resolution is in Antarctica. Prior to the Antarctic Treaty of 1959, the continent was the subject of a series of territorial claims, some dating back as far as the 1840s. n204 By the early part of the twentieth century, eight different countries had launched "scientific expeditions," some of which were as much about annexation as exploration. n205 By 1950, eight claims had been [*260] made on the continent, n206 and these eight would be the claims that would be locked in place during the 1959 Antarctica Treaty. n207 This treaty, along with supplementary agreements (altogether comprising the "Antarctic Treaty System") have managed to "avoid[] conflicts over sovereignty ... prevent[] the militarization of the continent ... [and] prevent[] an unregulated gold rush in Antarctica." n208 This success has, at least in part, been attributed to the application of the res communes doctrine to the Antarctic Treaty System. n209 There are two crucial points, however, that differentiate Antarctica from the Moon and that predict the failure of the OST regime once the Moon becomes a resource base that is readily accessible. First, Antarctica is not a true res communes. The Antarctic Treaty did not require states parties to disavow their territorial claims. n210 Rather, it only barred the modification of the claims that were in existence in 1959. n211 States not only still maintain their claims on Antarctic territory, n212 but some have gone as far as to issue postage stamps in the name of their Antarctic territories to reassert the vitality of those claims. n213 The impact of this perpetuation of territorial claims has been mitigated by other arrangements in the Antarctic Treaty System that severely limit the profitability of states exploiting their claims, such as the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, n214 which has barred extraction of Antarctic resources until 2048. n215 Additionally, Antarctica does not have the mineral or resource wealth of the Moon. n216 For these reasons, [*261] Antarctica has not been worth developing, much less fighting over. Contrast this with the current dispute over the resource-rich Arctic - where states are trying to maintain assertions of territorial control to horde the energy resources beneath the seabed n217 - and it is clear that where resources and profits are accessible, conflict surely follows. The historical conflicts over imperialist regimes and colonialism tend to suggest that when powerful states have an interest in amassing something that exists in large, previously un-owned quantities in one location, they will inevitably come into conflict with one another. States have a limited economic interest in the Antarctic, n218 and so they are unlikely to invest military assets and the necessary financing to vindicate or broaden their claim to something that is not generating them any wealth. In contrast, states seem to believe that they have potentially great economic interests in the Moon and, accordingly may have a correspondingly large motivation to have conflicts over it. n219 Exploration of the Moon will benefit humanity - on Earth, new technologies will be have to be developed to aid states in the new space race - and on the Moon, providing new opportunities for human growth and expansion. n220 Whatever name a regime wants to give to the Moon - res nullius [*262] or res communes - the Moon represents an unparalleled opportunity. Imagine a situation where one state was able to not only find large quantities of Helium-3 or some other valuable resource on the Moon but also succeeded in denying access to other states. That state would enjoy a tremendous economic advantage by cornering the market in some ultrarare, useful commodity. Resources by their nature breed conflict. n221 As demonstrated above, states will soon be converging on the Moon to reap the benefits that it may provide. Given the recent actions by the United States and China, and the spirit of conquest and competition that seems to be informing the current Moon rush, the vague and generic OST will not be able to sufficiently stop state conflict over the greatest economic opportunity in history.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Beljac 8 (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com, | April 1, 2008, http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113 | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">China has tested an anti satellite weapon and Russia has stated that it would not allow other states to control space and threaten its own space assets. In Asia a nascent space race seems to be developing between China, Japan and India. In the far future the large deposits of Helium-3 on the moon's surface could lead to a militarized race to colonize the moon to secure Helium-3 for nuclear fusion energy technologies based on anuetronic fusion reactions in the context of depleting hydro-carbons. Washington argues that it has too much commercially riding on space to allow others to have the potential capability of disrupting U.S. space assets. In 1998 the failure of one satellite, the Galaxy IV, made some 80% of pagers in the U.S. malfunction. Though the latest Russian and Chinese space arms control proposal is flawed, because of the clumsy definition of what constitutes a “space weapon,” this doesn’t mean that space arms control is not possible in principle. A global space arms control regime would protect U.S., Russian, Chinese, and even Australian space assets. An arms race in space will eventually lead other states to catch up with the United States and thereby placing Washington's commercial satellites at risk. Space weaponization may well have cataclysmic consequences given the link between space weapons and nuclear weapons strategy. This is because Russia, and the United States, to a certain extent rely on satellites for early warning of nuclear attack. As other space nations with nuclear weapons develop their space capacity it is expected that they will follow suit. The deployment of space weapons means that the first shot in a nuclear war would be fired against these early warning satellites. Currently strategic planners in Moscow have about 10 minutes between warning of an attack and the decision to launch nuclear weapons in response before they impact. Weapons in space would lower this in certain scenarios down to seconds. This would also apply for weapons placed in space that would be considered to be defensive such as say a space based BMD interceptor or a “counter-ASAT” weapon. On occasion, ground warning radars falsely show that a nuclear attack has been launched. In the 1990s a false alarm went all the way up to President Boris Yeltsin and was terminated after approximately eight minutes. We are still here, noted analysts believe, because warning satellites would have given Moscow real time information showing the alarm to be false. Should such a false alarm coincide with an accident involving an early warning satellite when space weapons are known to exist, an accidental nuclear exchange could result. The risk would increase if the false alarm occurred during a crisis. Space weapons could lead to itchy fingers on nuclear triggers. They would therefore significantly increase the importance nuclear weapon states place upon nuclear deterrence.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Helfand and Pastore 9 [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the G-20 summit. They must not let the current economic crisis keep them from focusing on one of the greatest threats confronting humanity: the danger of nuclear war. Since the end of the Cold War, many have acted as though the danger of nuclear war has ended. It has not. There remain in the world more than 20,000 nuclear weapons. Alarmingly, more than 2,000 of these weapons in the U.S. and Russian arsenals remain on ready-alert status, commonly known as hair-trigger alert. They can be fired within five minutes and reach targets in the other country 30 minutes later. Just one of these weapons can destroy a city. A war involving a substantial number would cause devastation on a scale unprecedented in human history. A study conducted by Physicians for Social Responsibility in 2002 showed that if only 500 of the Russian weapons on high alert exploded over our cities, 100 million Americans would die in the first 30 minutes. An attack of this magnitude also would destroy the entire economic, communications and transportation infrastructure on which we all depend. Those who survived the initial attack would inhabit a nightmare landscape with huge swaths of the country blanketed with radioactive fallout and epidemic diseases rampant. They would have no food, no fuel, no electricity, no medicine, and certainly no organized health care. In the following months it is likely the vast majority of the U.S. population would die. Recent studies by the eminent climatologists Toon and Robock have shown that such a war would have a huge and immediate impact on climate world wide. If all of the warheads in the U.S. and Russian strategic arsenals were drawn into the conflict, the firestorms they caused would loft 180 million tons of soot and debris into the upper atmosphere — blotting out the sun. Temperatures across the globe would fall an average of 18 degrees Fahrenheit to levels not seen on earth since the depth of the last ice age, 18,000 years ago. Agriculture would stop, eco-systems would collapse, and many species, including perhaps our own, would become extinct. It is common to discuss nuclear war as a low-probabillity event. But is this true? We know of five occcasions during the last 30 years when either the U.S. or Russia believed it was under attack and prepared a counter-attack. The most recent of these near misses occurred after the end of the Cold War on Jan. 25, 1995, when the Russians mistook a U.S. weather rocket launched from Norway for a possible attack. Jan. 25, 1995, was an ordinary day with no major crisis involving the U.S. and Russia. But, unknown to almost every inhabitant on the planet, a misunderstanding led to the potential for a nuclear war. The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Independently makes war and miscalc more likely</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Hitchens 08 [Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China's regional rivals, India, may feel compelled to seek offensive as well as defensive capabilities in space. The U.S. trade journal Defense News, for instance, quoted unidentified Indian defense officials as stating that their country had already begun developing its own kinetic-energy (nonexplosive, hit-to-kill) and laser-based antisatellite weapons. If India goes down that path, its archrival Pakistan will probably follow suit. Like India, Pakistan has a well-developed ballistic missile program, including medium-range missiles that could launch an antisatellite system. Even Japan, the third major Asian power, might join such a space race. In June 2007 the National Diet of Japan began considering a bill backed by the current Fukuda government that would permit the development of satellites for "military and national security" purposes. As for Russia, in the wake of the Chinese test President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow's stance against the weaponization of space. At the same time, though, he refused to criticize Beijing's actions and blamed the U.S. instead. The American efforts to build a missile defense system, Putin charged, and the increasingly aggressive American plans for a military position in space were prompting China's moves. Yet Russia itself, as a major spacefaring power that has incorporated satellites into its national security structure, would be hard-pressed to forgo entering an arms race in space. Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities [see box at left], proponents of a robust space warfare strategy believe that arming the heavens is inevitable and that it would be best for the U.S. to get there first with firepower. Antisatellite and space-based weapons, they argue, will be necessary not only to defend U.S. military and commercial satellites but also to deny any future adversary the use of space capabilities to enhance the performance of its forces on the battlefield. Yet any arms race in space would almost inevitably destabilize the balance of power and thereby multiply the risks of global conflict. In such headlong competition--whether in space or elsewhere--equilibrium among the adversaries would be virtually impossible to maintain. Even if the major powers did achieve stability, that reality would still provide no guarantee that both sides would perceive it to be so. The moment one side saw itself to be slipping behind the other, the first side would be strongly tempted to launch a preemptive strike, before things got even worse. Ironically, the same would hold for the side that perceived itself to have gained an advantage. Again, there would be strong temptation to strike first, before the adversary could catch up. Finally, a space weapons race would ratchet up the chances that a mere technological mistake could trigger a battle. After all, in the distant void, reliably distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be highly problematic. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Twibell 97 (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">As stated at the forefront of this Note, the emergence of man into space and the proliferation of outer space economic activity is not merely an exercise in scientific endeavor or a luxury of an advanced society. It also holds the key to the "salvation" of humankind who can reap vast rewards in economic benefits: cheaper and more accessible energy, advanced medicine, infinite natural resources, and space for an expanding population. Any doctrine, such as the res communes doctrine, that prevents man from receiving space's incomparable rewards must be scrutinized and questioned. The risk and expense of space activity mandates high levels of cooperation at many levels, including private and governmental cooperation and cooperation amongst international governments. Thus, by allowing property rights in space and increasing the legal certainty for space investors, the potential effect is one of both international harmony and humanitarian rewards.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Twibell 97 (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The problems with international methods in changing space law are obvious. Changes in domestic law often take a significant amount of time. Moreover, when many nations around the world have to agree on one thing, international changes often take much longer. It can take years for a nation to sign an agreement. For example, nations have slowly signed the 1979 Moon Treaty over a period of several years. Conversely, if the world-wide common consensus is the same, changes can occur very fast. When it looks like international changes could take many years, unilateral action may be more attractive. n365 One obvious solution would simply be for the United States to ignore the 1967 Space Treaty's no- sovereignty provision. n366 However, such an action would carry with it many negative international repercussions and could threaten United States investment in space. n367 Further, success in space commercialization, because of the enormous investments required, may depend on international cooperation. Professor Reynolds proposes a better solution. The United States could simply state that it would recognize the claims of those who discover valuable mineral deposits by both citizens and non-citizens of the United States. Recognition of these claims and the protection of these claims from third parties "would not constitute 'national appropriation' or the exercise of sovereignty over territory, but rather, the exercise of U.S. jurisdiction over its citizens and of its power to protect them against third parties." This action would be consistent with principles in analogous law sharing the res communis character of space. Similar to White, Reynolds cites the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act, "which established a mechanism for recognizing mining claims by United States ventures regarding deep seabed mineral deposits outside the territorial jurisdiction of any nation." Instead of creating an international scheme for adopting a body of law similar to the Deep Seabed Act, Reynolds merely proposes that it is a good precedent and a supporting basis for unilateral action. Reynolds states that "[b]ecause the Act applies to an international common area, the high seas, with the same res communis legal character as outer space, it provides an interesting precedent for unilateral United States efforts to recognize property rights in outer space pending some agreed-upon international regime." </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">That spills over globally</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Wasser 11 (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, http://www.spacesettlement.org/ | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The United States will probably be the first and most important market where land deeds will be sold to the public. In that case, it will be the U.S. courts that will rule on whether Lunar land sales are valid transactions or frauds. What this legislation does is tell the U.S. courts what standard to use in making that ruling. Further, it is not at all unusual for quite a few other nations to follow the U.S.'s lead on things like this. However, this legislation is most definitely not just for the benefit of Americans! Given today's global economy, it is almost certain that all entrants in the race to establish a settlement will be multi-national consortia. The investor/owners will be drawn from all around the world, as will the land buyers. Most particularly, the teams of aerospace companies cooperating to build the ships will be from many nations. It is just too big a job for one company, or even one nationality, to undertake alone. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Bennett 8 (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/ | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">IF THE PAST few years have taught us anything, it is to not underestimate the intoxicating allure of property. Real estate, it turns out, brings out the adventurer in all of us. It's unsurprising, then, that a few enterprising thinkers are hoping to harness that power in a more exotic neighborhood: space. No one, of course, owns space - not even the relatively tiny portion of it within humankind's reach. While the space race may have been kicked off by Cold War politics, its rhetoric has always been fastidiously communal, eschewing talk of ownership. "We set sail on this new sea because there is new knowledge to be gained and new rights to be won, and they must be won and used for the progress of all people," President Kennedy intoned in a famous 1962 speech laying out the rationale for putting a man on the moon. In other words, while exploring space has been a race, a mission, and an adventure, it has never been a business. Recently, however, there's been growing interest in changing that. In the small community of people who think seriously about space exploration, a few are arguing that exporting the idea of private property into space is exactly what we need to do to launch a bold new space race. Space exploration remains a very risky, complex, and expensive endeavor. And while the number of at least nominal space nations looks to grow in coming years, here in the United States there's a sense among space exploration enthusiasts that the government just isn't willing to spend the money necessary to make projects like a permanent moon base or manned Mars expeditions succeed. Better, some suggest, to rely on individual avarice to spur exploration, by allowing private explorers to stake a claim, like celestial Sooners, to the lands they reach. Giving extraterrestrial property rights could be a powerful force, not only for exploration, but for the efficient development of the discovered and undiscovered resources of space. Celestial bodies such as the moon and the thousands of near-Earth asteroids may prove to be highly lucrative pieces of property - as sources of minerals and clean energy, venues for scientific experimentation and high-end tourism, or simply as open space for refugees from an increasingly crowded planet. "Property rights will provide the only economic incentive that will possibly justify entrepreneurial space exploration," says Alan Wasser, chairman of the Space Settlement Institute and the former CEO of the National Space Society. The exploration and settlement of space "benefits all mankind, but all mankind doesn't want to put up the money." Already, space is becoming the province of the private sector: hundreds of private satellites now orbit the planet. And within a few years, private space travel has gone from concept to near-reality. Virgin Galactic's SpaceshipTwo suborbital spacecraft is already taking reservations from aspiring space tourists, and hopes to start flights by 2010. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos's own space tourism craft is on a similar timeline. The prototype of Las Vegas hotel billionaire Robert Bigelow's "space hotel," a private space station that he envisions could be rented out to everyone from wealthy vacationers to national space programs, has been in orbit since July 2006. These successes have suggested to some space exploration proponents that private efforts, given the right incentives, might be capable of meeting far more ambitious goals, bringing new technologies, lower costs, and a swashbuckling attitude to a field traditionally dominated by public bureaucracies. There's a variety of opinion as to how extensive extraterrestrial property rights should be - whether to allow, for example, the outright buying and selling of land, or whether to forbid ownership and instead rely on leases, trusts, and easements - but there's nonetheless a growing consensus that some form of space property is inevitable and necessary. In 2004, President Bush's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy announced that a key component of the exploration of the solar system was assuring "appropriate property rights for those who seek to develop space resources and infrastructure." The debate is playing out among the growing number of lawyers who have dedicated themselves to the once obscure field of "space law," a specialty that covers everything from space tourism liability issues to import and export restrictions on satellite parts. And while the question of property on the moon remains, for the time being, an abstract one, for space property proponents it's far from frivolous. Whether it's 16th-century English privateer-explorers or the Dutch East India Company, 19th-century American homesteaders or the building of the Transcontinental Railroad, privatization has a long history as a catalyst for discovery, development, and settlement. Now, some say, it's time to look up. One of the more straightforward models for celestial private property has been put forward by Wasser. He made his case most recently in an article in the winter issue of the Journal of Air Law and Commerce: The United States and other national governments, he argues, should pass what he calls "land claim recognition" legislation. Under such laws, courts would recognize private property claims on the moon or other celestial bodies so long as the claimant has established a settlement there. Wasser proposes limiting lunar property-holders to plots the size of Alaska - that leaves plenty for others, but also is big enough that selling it off would turn a profit even after what are sure to be the enormous expenses incurred getting to the moon in the first place. After that, Wasser argues, the process becomes self-perpetuating. Land sales pay for the cost of developing safe transport and that encourages further settlement, which drives up land prices even more. A key stipulation, though, would be that space property ownership deeds would require the owners to sell people rides to whatever celestial body the property was on - thereby speeding up the process of settlement and spreading around the benefits of whatever space-travel breakthroughs had been arrived at by the property holder."The point of all this is to open the frontier for everyone," Wasser says, "and obviously being willing to sell rides to the settlement would be a way of accomplishing that."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Wasser and Jobes 8 (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Some of those who have written on this subject recognize the need for property rights as an incentive for space development and the ambiguity of the Outer Space Treaty, but are still mired in the concept that space development can only be achieved as it was during the Cold War—by nations and for parochial national interests. For example, in his Seton Hall Law Review article, lawyer Brandon Gruner portrays the question of whether the Outer Space Treaty permits private property solely in terms of whether a nation, presumably the U.S., could use that permission to cheat the no-sovereignty rules.64 What Gruner does not mention is the possibility of good faith claims made by genuine private enterprise settlements, rather than citizens of any single nation, and not acting as a front for any nation trying to slip national appropriation past the rest of the world. But such good faith property claims are the only kind that should be encouraged and allowed. Any effort to establish a human space settlement is almost certainly going to be a multi-national effort. No U.S. company could build a Lunar settlement alone.65 Participation by international companies will be a requirement in practice and could be made part of the law.66 Financially, building a settlement will be so expensive that it will have to be financed and owned by stockholders from many different countries.67 The Settlement would have to use rockets and other components built in many countries, be inhabited by the citizens of many other countries, and would almost certainly launch from someplace outside the U.S., such as Kazakhstan or the Kourou launch pad in French Guiana.68 [Footnote] A new Boeing airliner these days has to use components and whole sections built in many different countries, and of course a lunar settlement would be much more complex and expensive. The International Space Station is another example of the need to use components and personnel from many different countries for big projects, and, again, a lunar settlement would be much more complex and expensive. No one company, no matter how large, has—or wants to have—enough manufacturing capacity to do the whole job itself. Besides that, the cost of manufacturing, especially labor, can be significantly reduced by doing most of the work in multiple non-U.S. factories. Even more important, the financing of really big projects requires raising money all over the world (often from sovereign wealth funds) and, to please those international sources of funding and their governments, the expenditure of funds must also be spread around. Similarly, international investors and their governments would certainly insist that the settlement’s crews include citizens from their countries. As to where to launch from, commercial space launches from the U.S. are difficult, expensive, and involve a huge amount of red tape. Other countries are likely to be much more eager for the business and therefore much more accommodating. Some might well offer significant financial incentives to use their space port. Onerous U.S. regulations force almost all U.S. owned ocean going ships to register under a flag of convenience like Panama and Liberia—and that reasoning will apply even more in the case of big commercial space launches. Finally, the Kourou launch pad in French Guiana, being closer to the equator than any U.S. launch site can be, would probably be the most practical, efficient site to launch from. As Fountain describes it: Given the high cost of space development, the formation of international partnerships among private entities will be crucial in any future development of outer space. Such cooperation has the added benefit of ensuring that no one state monopolizes too many of the resources. Additionally, partnerships would provide developing states the opportunity to participate in ventures on a modest scale . . . . Such states could provide scientists, engineers, and/or a smaller percent of investment capital in exchange for a smaller percent of the profits.69 Therefore, there is no reason at all for a settlement company to place itself on the U.S. registry or choose to be under U.S. jurisdiction, and there are good reasons for not - doing so. Today, few, if any, ocean going ships, choose U.S. registry rather than a “flag of convenience.”70 Therefore, the fact that the U.S. chooses to recognize the land claims of Kazakh or Guyanese companies, for example, could in no way be considered a U.S. attempt to appropriate the Moon.71</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Advantage 2 - Economy</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Multiple internals:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">a. Investment- Common Heritage makes space not cost effective for US companies- the plan provides a massive incentive</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ranjana Kaul, partner at Dua Associates practicing space law, columnist for the Financial Express, 11/15/08, http://www.financialexpress.com/news/column-whose-moon-is-it-anyway/385819/0</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">November 14, 2008 was historic. Twenty minutes after delinking from Chandrayaan I, the Moon Impact Probe dropped the tricolour on the lunar surface. What does this imply? Will placing a national flag on the Moon encourage recognition of property rights in lunar land? Is India fourth in line? These questions are significant because of global interest in exploiting the natural resources of the Moon, asteroids and Mars that are capable of providing new energy sources; fuel for space missions; construction material for permanent space base, among numerous other applications. NASA will return to the Moon in 2020 and build a permanent lunar base from which to launch deep space exploration. Roskosmos, the Russian space agency has similar intentions. While, two key objectives of Chandrayaan-I are to search for surface or sub-surface water-ice on the Moon and to detect the quantum of Helium 3. Thus India has joined the US, EU, Russia, China and Japan in taking significant initiatives in that direction. Lunar expeditions are capital intensive and sustained financing is critical for its success. Presently, neither government nor private enterprise have sufficient incentive to invest billions of dollars in financing technology developments. As a space law expert said, “Exploration is not suicidal and it is usually not altruistic, rather it is a means to obtain wealth. There must be rewards for the risks being taken.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">However, the 1967 Outer Space Treaty, the primary basis for most international space law, prohibits national appropriation of outer space including the Moon and other celestial bodies by claims of sovereignty, occupation, use or any other means (Article II). OST also establishes outer space as the Common Heritage of Mankind to be explored, exploited and used only for peaceful purpose on the basis of equality and non-discrimination. Thus the non-appropriation and CHM principles may be roadblocks to investment. The recognition of private property rights and possibility of immediate payback to investors may provide necessary incentives for private investment. But these propositions contradict international law.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">b. Industrialization- the plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The Apollo landing on the Moon, the Space Shuttle, and space activity in general most likely conjure images of scientific endeavor and symbols of human achievement. This Note advocates legal change to promote commercial space activity; however, not for intellectual value alone. Space industrialization and commercialization offer immeasurable economic and humanitarian rewards unrealized by the average person or lawyer. The space industry is already a multi-billion dollar industry. It is also an industry in which the United States does not necessarily lead. The European Space Agency captures the majority of commercial launch contracts, affecting not only the commercial launch industry, but the satellite, remote sensing, and all other related enterprises. Third-world countries are also major competitors in the space industry. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">The present space industry allows industrial manufacturers to have the capability of conducting laboratory experiments and industrial processes that are virtually impossible to perform on Earth. These processes can be performed thousands of times more efficiently in space. Experimental achievements and manufacturing have already resulted in vital products including, medicine, pharmaceutical drugs, antibiotics, vaccines, computer micro-processing chips, new metal alloys, electronics, energy, and many others. Despite high profit margins from these technological breakthroughs, the space industry has merely scratched the surface of what it can achieve. However, reaching beyond these current achievements proves near impossible under the current body of space law.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Although the United States has landed on the moon and placed its flag on its surface, the United States cannot (nor any other nation or entity) own the moon or any part of it. This includes all other planets, asteroids, and other celestial bodies such as comets. International space law and domestic law following it, prohibit appropriation of celestial property. It is this prohibition and the uncertainty in the limited property rights that stifle the commercialization and industrialization of outer space.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Section II of this Note provides a basic overview of space law. Section III demonstrates how space law restrains the commercial development of outer space. Section IV reveals the little-known, but highly lucrative, space industry that exists today. Section V examines what the industry could be if it were to exist under a legal regime that promotes investment and legal certainty in space. Finally, Section VI provides some suggested changes in space law that will pave the road towards the infinite rewards which may be reaped from the commercialization of space.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">c. Development- Common Heritage currently blocks space development</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Jeremy L. Zell, J.D. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School; B.A., University of South Dakota, 2006, 15 Minn. J. Int'l L. 489</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The time for the formation of a regime to govern the exploration and exploitation of space resources is overdue. Activities undertaken by the United States, China, and other potentially space-faring nations represent the beginning of a twenty-first century space race which will be inextricably tied to mining rights on the Moon, the planet Mars, and NEAs. By viewing the territory of outer space as being vested in the international community, a workable authority to govern mining interests in space can be established. The Space Resource Authority proposed in this article would create economic incentive for nations and firms to simultaneously invest in outer space and developing nations. The hope is that, by eliminating disagreement over the meaning of the Common Heritage Concept, the international community can begin to peacefully develop outer space's resources in a way that truly benefits all of humanity.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Only the plan sends the signal that development of space is legitimate- paves the way for more innovative ventures</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Currently, most ventures are performed in the vacuum of space with little or no question regarding celestial property rights, at least so long as the principles of maritime jurisdiction remain in tact. Celestial property issues will not arise or be answered after the advent of colonization on the Moon or Mars and the mining of asteroids and comets. Rather, they must be answered before the beginning of such ventures. While space ventures are already expensive, high risk also exists for investors uncertain as to whether the mined material, mining operations, or colonies will remain the investor's property, or if it must be equally shared with the international community standing idly by. As a result, the motivation to invest is significantly reduced. Heidi Keefe articulates her universal understanding of human motivation and the weakness of international space law as follows:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">[Space law does not] really take into account the human need to be fairly certain of the task required, and to be rewarded for what is accomplished, which may be the downfall of the current corpus juris spatialis. Without incentive, most individuals will not grow beyond what is absolutely necessary to their lives. The capitalist (or pseudo-capitalist) notions that dominate the economics of the developed world attempt to provide reward based on individual effort. Through this system of rewards for successes, we are ingrained with the notion that there is always an underlying reason for everything that we do. The underlying reason always ends up being money. The rewards for commercial space activities, accordingly, should be certain and predictable. Investors must be guaranteed that the material they mine is their own to profit and use, the colonies built will remain under a particular nation's sovereignty, and the ship or colony built of mined material from unclaimed celestial bodies will not fall under the control of other nations through some abstract claim- of-right to the final product.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Within 5 years the plan spurs lunar mining that uncovers a vast array of resources- leads to limitless wealth and makes us filthy rich</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ezra J. Reinstein, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 1999, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Space offers the potential for practically limitless wealth, some already being exploited, some we may only harness in the distant future, and undoubtedly some we cannot begin to guess. Already the wealth of space is being developed in the form of telecommunications and remote satellite observation. The private-sector investment in telecommunications satellites alone was projected to total $ 54.3 billion (including launch) between 1996 and 2000 -- and this figure doesn't include other commercial space ventures, nor does it include investment in Russian and Chinese satellites. A further $ 70 billion was projected to be invested in satellite communications ground stations over the same period. Research in materials science is uncovering phenomena unique to the low-and no-gravity environment of space, and the space-based processing of these new alloys, composites, ceramics and polymers may soon become an important industry. The field of biotechnology is also taking advantage of zero-gravity conditions to manufacture protein crystals, which the pharmaceutical industry can use to create drugs that are able to "turn off" a protein, thereby regulating metabolic processes. Engineers have considered the possibility of capturing solar energy in massive quantities by laying out giant cells in space and on our moon. Perhaps the most lucrative area of development is the mining of celestial bodies. On the moon, an assay of only 30 km squared of the lunar surface during Apollo-17 turned up deposits of Helium-3, a radiation-free fusion reactor fuel, practically nonexistent on Earth, that is more efficient than any radioactive fuel currently available. So-called near-Earth asteroids ("NEAs"), six are closer to Earth than our moon and more than 50 closer than Mars, might also be optimal targets for early development. The smaller of these asteroids have negligible gravitational fields, which would reduce fuel costs far below what is necessary for a lunar mission. Many of these NEAs seem to be rich in raw materials that are either rare and valuable on Earth, or common on Earth, needed in space, but expensive to launch. For instance, there is accumulating evidence that some NEAs contain gold, rhenium, germanium, and platinum-group metals -- platinum, palladium, iridium, osmium, rhodium, and ruthenium -- at concentrations of up to 100 times those that are mined on Earth. Glenn Reynolds has observed, "The smallest known near-Earth metal asteroid contains more metal than has been mined by humanity since the beginning of time." It has been estimated that 2,000 NEAs larger than 1 km in diameter exist. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Finally, space colonization, though on the distant horizon, is not necessarily a fantasy. Colonization -- pushing humanity's living room beyond its "surly bonds" -- might, depending on how it's implemented, represent a complete answer to the potential disaster of overpopulation and its effects.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Until very recently, harvesting the bounty of space in any of the aforementioned ways has been precluded by technological and financial considerations. Recent price estimates of launching material into orbit costs approximately $ 10,000 per pound; $ 25,000-30,000 per pound of material to launch to our moon. The tremendous cost of launch, retrieval, and return means that "if there was gold in low Earth orbit and all the shuttle had to do was go up and open its cargo bay doors and let [the gold] fall in, it wouldn't be worth it, even then." In the not-too-distant future, however, many of these activities may become economically feasible. The price of launch has decreased due to improved technology and increased competition. The price tag on robotic space missions, likely to be the avant garde of space mining endeavors, is one-fourth of what it was six years ago. Several real-world companies have begun to plan for the day that launch costs fall to a level at which they could profit from space mining. SpaceDev, a Colorado-based provider of commercial space missions and small commercial launch vehicles, is currently traded on the over-the-counter stock market. If a firm is eventually able to bring ore down to Earth, the total wealth available to humanity will be increased. The estimated Helium-3 reserves on our moon would create, in a controlled fusion reaction, 10 times as much energy as is contained in Earth's recoverable coal, oil, and gas combined. What is stopping these companies now, perhaps more than the money or technology, is the uncertainty of the legal regime. If exploitation of outer space's bounty is our goal, we must establish a space property legal system that creates both incentives and predictability. Space development is a highly risky endeavor, as well as mind-bogglingly expensive. Who would expend the effort in developing a space colony, if they were not certain of the project's legality? Valuable projects -- energy collection, mining, and colonization -- are by no means inevitable. If the law of outer space rejects such uses, or even makes their legality uncertain, it is unlikely that the necessary technology would ever be created. A promising solution to our ever-growing energy needs involves setting up giant banks of solar panels in Earth's orbit and on the moon's sunny side, using the solar energy to power space development projects, and then beaming the excess down to Earth as microwave energy for terrestrial use. Will a private electric company be willing to develop such a lunar solar collection system? Not without a field of space law that permits exploitation and a strong rate of return on investment. Unless we can impose a rule of law that eliminates uncertainty while permitting the highest possible rate of return, we may be denied access to the fruits of space for a long time to come.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">That independently causes the next industrial revolution</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">An immediate and accelerated surge in the growth of the commercial space industry would create enormous economic and humanitarian benefits. It would also benefit and provide extensions for already existing terrestrial industries such as medicine, pharmacology, and computer microprocessing. These extensions would substantially accelerate the development of new technologies and manufacturing rates. This section demonstrates the importance in promoting the space industry for humankind today and in the near future. It also shows what today's industry could look like, barring legal constraints. Some of the benefits are realized today in a modest degree, however, other benefits will occur farther into the future and will be inhibited without some form of property rights. If the industry is accelerated and its restraints removed, the long range and intermediate benefits will come sooner and space will indeed be "the cradle for the next economic and industrial revolution." The "immediate" future is defined in terms of this Note as today and approximately the next ten years.While the population as a whole may know little about the scientific characteristics of outer space, many people are aware outer space is a vacuum, there is little or no gravity, and there are extremes in temperature. These characteristics aid in space manufacturing in the immediate future. The environment enables, as demonstrated by experiments on the space shuttle, improved production over earth bound laboratories at seven hundred times the quantity and four times the purity. Although today's technology is very advanced, it has failed to replicate the vacuum of outer space which is important to many industrial applications.Vacuums are desirable for those industries that require crystallization of certain substances for manufacturing products such as pharmaceuticals or microchips. The "perfect" vacuum of space allows crystal formations to be enhanced. This enhanced crystallization aids in a variety of commercial developments, especially pharmaceuticals and semiconductors. Not only is crystallization beneficial for the above industries, it is also beneficial to a host of other industries requiring large and perfect crystallization, including genetic engineering and molecular electronics. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Economic decline causes war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Harris and Burrows 9 – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Experts and history disprove your impact takeouts</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Schrage ‘9 (Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, It's not just the economy, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, analysts at the World Bank and the US Central Intelligence Agency are just beginning to contemplate the ramifications for international stability if there is not a recovery in the next year. For the most part, the focus has been on fragile states such as some in Eastern Europe. However, the Great Depression taught us that a downward global economic spiral can even have jarring impacts on great powers. It is no mere coincidence that the last great global economic downturn was followed by the most destructive war in human history. In the 1930s, economic desperation helped fuel autocratic regimes and protectionism in a downward economic-security death spiral that engulfed the world in conflict. This spiral was aided by the preoccupation of the United States and other leading nations with economic troubles at home and insufficient attention to working with other powers to maintain stability abroad. Today's challenges are different, yet 1933's London Economic Conference, which failed to stop the drift toward deeper depression and world war, should be a cautionary tale for leaders heading to next month's London Group of 20 (G-20) meeting. There is no question the United States must urgently act to address banking issues and to restart its economy. But the lessons of the past suggest that we will also have to keep an eye on those fragile threads in the international system that could begin to unravel if the financial crisis is not reversed early in the Barack Obama administration and realize that economics and security are intertwined in most of the critical challenges we face. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Friedberg ‘9 (Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, The Dangers of a Diminished America, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the peaceful democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions. Today we run the risk that rogue states may choose to become ever more reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability. The aftershocks of the financial crisis will almost certainly rock our principal strategic competitors even harder than they will rock us. The dramatic free fall of the Russian stock market has demonstrated the fragility of a state whose economic performance hinges on high oil prices, now driven down by the global slowdown. China is perhaps even more fragile, its economic growth depending heavily on foreign investment and access to foreign markets. Both will now be constricted, inflicting economic pain and perhaps even sparking unrest in a country where political legitimacy rests on progress in the long march to prosperity. None of this is good news if the authoritarian leaders of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures. As for our democratic friends, the present crisis comes when many European nations are struggling to deal with decades of anemic growth, sclerotic governance and an impending demographic crisis. Despite its past dynamism, Japan faces similar challenges. India is still in the early stages of its emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Alternatively, the US would just withdraw from the international system during the collapse</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ferguson ‘9 (Niall, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Author of War of the World and The Ascent of Money, Introducing the axis of upheaval, The Times, Accessed Online @ The Times Online)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The problem is that, as in the 1930s, most countries are looking inward, grappling with the domestic consequences of the economic crisis and paying little attention to the wider world crisis. This is true even of the US, which is so preoccupied with its own domestic problems that countering global upheaval looks like an expensive luxury. Even with the White House's optimistic forecasts for growth, its gross federal debt is going to balloon to 100 per cent of GDP within ten years. Few commentators are asking what all this implies for US foreign policy. The answer is obvious: the resources available for policing the world are certain to be reduced. Economic volatility, plus ethnic disintegration, plus empires in decline: that combination is about the most lethal in geopolitics. We now have all three. The age of upheaval starts here.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Ockham Research ‘8 (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The economic turmoil roiling world markets right now brings with it plenty of pain. Jobs are being lost, people’s savings decimated, retirement plans/goals thrown out the window, etc. Hard times bring with them harsh consequences. However, it is perhaps useful to be mindful of the geopolitical risks that accompany economic dislocation. Many analysts are eager to compare the difficulties now confronting the global economic system with those of the Great Depression. While I do not believe that the world is facing a second Great Depression, it might be worthwhile to recall from history that the Great Depression spawned geopolitical turmoil that lead to the Second World War. The incoming Obama administration—and Democratic members of Congress who talk of implementing massive defense cutbacks—may want to remember the lessons of the past as they stand on the threshold of power. The hardship and turmoil which impacted the world during the Great Depression provided fertile ground for the rise of fascist, expansionist regimes in Germany, Italy and Japan. Hard times also precluded the Western democracies from a more muscular response in the face of growing belligerence from these countries. The United States largely turned inward during the difficult years of the 1930s. The end result was a global war of a size and scale never seen by man either before or since. Economic hardship is distracting. It can cause nations to turn their focus inward with little or no regard for rising global threats that inevitably build in tumultuous times. Authoritarian regimes invariably look for scapegoats to blame for the hardship affecting their populace. This enables them to project the anger of their citizenry away from the regime itself and onto another race, country, ideology, etc.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Advantage 2 – Colonization </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Land claims are the biggest internal link to lunar settlement – larger than all others combined</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Wasser and Jobes 8 (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on moving out into the cosmos while the window of opportunity for doing so still exists. Besides helping to ensure the survival of humankind, the settling of space—including the establishment of permanent human settlements on the Moon and Mars—will bring incalculable economic and social benefits to all nations. The settlement of space would benefit all of humanity. It would open a new frontier, provide resources and room for growth of the human race without despoiling the Earth, energize our society, and as Dr. Stephen Hawking has pointed out, create a lifeboat for humanity that could survive even a planet-wide catastrophe.1 But, as Dr. Lawrence Risley pointed out, “Exploration is not suicidal and it is usually not altruistic, rather it is a means to obtain wealth. There must be rewards for the risks being taken.”2 Unfortunately, neither private enterprise nor government currently has a sufficient incentive to invest the billions of dollars necessary to make space settlement happen. In the private sector, even the recent accomplishments of space entrepreneurs such as Richard Branson and Robert Bigelow are but tiny steps towards settlement.3 These billionaires may be able to get a few passengers to low Earth orbit, but it is very unlikely that they will finance technology for people to live in space, especially on the Moon or Mars.4 They may be wealthy, but they are not that wealthy. And the U.S. government’s current “Return to the Moon” plan5 has numerous hurdles, not the least of which is whether financing will be sustained over the next decades by future administrations. In any case, the goal of the program is not a thriving settlement on the Moon, but rather a limited, government- run Moon base.6 The government space programs of other countries are even farther behind with regard to space settlement.7 There appears to be one incentive, however, that could spark massive private investment leading to the establishment of permanent space settlements on the Moon and beyond with an immediate payback to investors. The concept of “land claims recognition” (developed by author Alan Wasser and others over the last twenty years) seems to be the most powerful economic incentive, much more so than all the other incentives, such as government-funded prizes and corporate tax holidays combined.8 .8 If and when the Moon and Mars are settled in the future through other incentives, the nations of Earth will eventually have to recognize these settlements’ authority over their own land. But to create an incentive now, governments would need to commit to recognizing that ownership in advance, rather than long after the fact. Land claims recognition legislation would commit the Earth’s nations, in advance, to allowing a true private Lunar settlement to claim and sell (to people back on Earth) a reasonable amount of Lunar real estate in the area around the base, thus giving the founders of the Moon settlement a way to earn back the investment they made to establish the settlement.9 Appropriate conditions could be set in the law, such as the establishment of an Earth-Moon space line open to all paying passengers regardless of nationality.10 The many other aspects of the land claims recognition concept are discussed in detail elsewhere,11 but a major point of related debate involves what international law has to say about the legality of a private entity, such as a space settlement owned by a corporation or individual, claiming ownership of land on a celestial body like the Moon on the basis of “occupation and 9 It cannot be stressed enough that the reason for land claims recognition legislation is not to establish a good property rights regime for its own sake, nor is it to protect Lunar residents from claim jumping, which will not, in fact, be a problem, as will be shown later. See The Space Settlement Initiative, http://www.space settlement.org (last visited Mar. 25, 2008). The sole reason is to create the only product that a privately funded space settlement could sell to the public back on Earth for sufficient profit to justify the tremendous cost of establishing a space settlement. Id. This product is hundreds of millions of paper deeds that are recognized by the U.S. government and other governments as bona fide deeds to acres of Lunar or Martian land, printed on Earth for pennies apiece, and sold to investors on Earth for perhaps one hundred dollars each. Id. The chain of reasoning is as follows: The objective is promoting the settlement of space—the day when ordinary people will live and work in thriving communities on the Moon and Mars. We do not want the Moon and Mars to be permanent wastelands like Antarctica, but instead we want them developed like Alaska. This goal would require an enormous up-front investment, but government has proven unwilling or unable to make this investment. Id. Private enterprise could make this investment, but only if there were a prospect of a quick, enormous profit upon success. Id. For this, there needs to be a very profitable product that a privately funded space settlement could sell to the public back on Earth. Id. It would be ideal if every nation of the world allowed the sale and acknowledged the validity of the deeds but, since the biggest pool of money is concentrated in the U.S., and the U.S. tends to lead the way in economic matters, it is U.S. recognition that is by far the most important. A claim of 600,000 square miles— around four percent of the Moon’s surface and roughly the size of Alaska— would contain 384,000,000 acres, so at even a conservative price of one hundred dollars per acre it would be worth almost forty billion dollars The following discussion lays out the argument that current international law, and especially “the Outer Space Treaty,” does appear to permit private property ownership in space and permit nations on Earth to recognize land ownership claims made by private space settlements, without these nations being guilty of national appropriation or any other legal violation.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Lunar colonization is the crucial prerequisite to Mars colonization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Dinkin 4 (Sam Dinkin, regular columnist at the Space Review, September 7, 2004, “Colonize the Moon before Mars” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/221/1 | Suo)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">It will probably take decades of subsidy before a Mars colony could sustain itself. A twenty-year program of $50-billion-a-year subsidies would hit a trillion dollars. This is an affordable sum for a rich planet. It would be an excellent idea to get started if this were the only space colonization option. There is a much better option, however, teasing us as it hangs in the sky. The Moon The Moon has many relative advantages. The first is capital utilization. A Lunar cycler can make hundreds of round trips in the time that a Mars cycler can make. Second, there is much less fuel required to get from the Earth to the Moon than to Mars. Existing technology can be used to get to the Moon (see “Soyuz to the Moon?”, The Space Review, August 2, 2004). A lunar landing mission might cost $120 million for an Ariane 5 booster. If each mission cost another $120 million for the Soyuz, service module and everything else, then that would be $240 million per flight instead of $5 billion per flight. That means that a $50-billion level of commitment from Earth can afford over 400 flights every two years. Of course, that level of commitment could be optimally spent in much better ways. By creating a lunar cycler, a station at L-1, an orbital fuel depot, in situ utilization of lunar oxygen and possibly lunar water, there could be a vibrant community on the Moon. While a single Ariane 5 could not heft as much as a Mars Direct flight, it may still transfer a comparable amount of resources and people as a Mars Direct flight would to Mars. Since life support and consumables are much less onerous for a short trip than a long trip, there is a lower mass requirement for crew transfer flights to the Moon and much less depreciation of capital in transit. Having new heavy lift that would enable Mars Direct would also enable more sensible lunar colonization missions. ngineering First, on a mission to the Moon, Earth rescue is a decent possibility for certain kinds of failures. On a trip to Mars, this would be out of the question. As NASA is finding out with its shuttle return to flight efforts, having a standby rescue ship and a space station to go to makes failure recovery for many failures feasible without too much increased capability from our existing hardware. Second, the proximity to Earth allows for just-in-time planning. With Earth only a few days away, a regular resupply mission can have last minute changes to its manifest. That means that fewer spares need to be kept on hand to assure the same level of safety as in a Mars mission. Third, the short distance between the Earth and the Moon allow Earth based teleoperation to be a viable alternative to robotics and local human operation. This vastly leverages the capability of capital equipment on the Moon. Fourth, there is valuable information that can be learned in setting up a space colony that will raise the likelihood of success of all future colonization efforts. So if we are colonizing both Mars and the Moon, colonizing the Moon first would help inform the colonization plan of Mars. The reverse would not be as true because Mars colonization would take longer. Finally, resource and energy options are opened up to guard against our energy appetite increasing (as our nuclear appetite isn’t) or carbon appetite decreasing. In addition to lunar resource utilization, creating an option to colonize near Earth asteroids is very interesting and makes many resource extraction strategies feasible even if it would take technology breakthroughs or huge changes in the economy to make them financially viable.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Mars colonization prevents extinction through untapped resources and a sustainable civilization </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Zubrin 96, former Chairman of the National Space Society, and President of the Mars Society, Robert, Ad Astra, "The Case for Colonizing Mars," July/August, http://nss.org/settlement/mars/zubrin-colonize.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Among extraterrestrial bodies in our solar system, Mars is singular in that it possesses all the raw materials required to support not only life, but a new branch of human civilization. This uniqueness is illustrated most clearly if we contrast Mars with the Earth's Moon, the most frequently cited alternative location for extraterrestrial human colonization. In contrast to the Moon, Mars is rich in carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, all in biologically readily accessible forms such as carbon dioxide gas, nitrogen gas, and water ice and permafrost. Carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen are only present on the Moon in parts per million quantities, much like gold in seawater. Oxygen is abundant on the Moon, but only in tightly bound oxides such as silicon dioxide (SiO2), ferrous oxide (Fe2O3), magnesium oxide (MgO), and aluminum oxide (Al2O3), which require very high energy processes to reduce. Current knowledge indicates that if Mars were smooth and all its ice and permafrost melted into liquid water, the entire planet would be covered with an ocean over 100 meters deep. This contrasts strongly with the Moon, which is so dry that if concrete were found there, Lunar colonists would mine it to get the water out. Thus, if plants could be grown in greenhouses on the Moon (an unlikely proposition, as we've seen) most of their biomass material would have to be imported. The Moon is also deficient in about half the metals of interest to industrial society (copper, for example), as well as many other elements of interest such as sulfur and phosphorus. Mars has every required element in abundance. Moreover, on Mars, as on Earth, hydrologic and volcanic processes have occurred that are likely to have consolidated various elements into local concentrations of high-grade mineral ore. Indeed, the geologic history of Mars has been compared to that of Africa, with very optimistic inferences as to its mineral wealth implied as a corollary. In contrast, the Moon has had virtually no history of water or volcanic action, with the result that it is basically composed of trash rocks with very little differentiation into ores that represent useful concentrations of anything interesting. You can generate power on either the Moon or Mars with solar panels, and here the advantages of the Moon's clearer skies and closer proximity to the Sun than Mars roughly balances the disadvantage of large energy storage requirements created by the Moon's 28-day light-dark cycle. But if you wish to manufacture solar panels, so as to create a self-expanding power base, Mars holds an enormous advantage, as only Mars possesses the large supplies of carbon and hydrogen needed to produce the pure silicon required for producing photovoltaic panels and other electronics. In addition, Mars has the potential for wind-generated power while the Moon clearly does not. But both solar and wind offer relatively modest power potential — tens or at most hundreds of kilowatts here or there. To create a vibrant civilization you need a richer power base, and this Mars has both in the short and medium term in the form of its geothermal power resources, which offer potential for large numbers of locally created electricity generating stations in the 10 MW (10,000 kilowatt) class. In the long-term, Mars will enjoy a power-rich economy based upon exploitation of its large domestic resources of deuterium fuel for fusion reactors. Deuterium is five times more common on Mars than it is on Earth, and tens of thousands of times more common on Mars than on the Moon. But the biggest problem with the Moon, as with all other airless planetary bodies and proposed artificial free-space colonies, is that sunlight is not available in a form useful for growing crops. A single acre of plants on Earth requires four megawatts of sunlight power, a square kilometer needs 1,000 MW. The entire world put together does not produce enough electrical power to illuminate the farms of the state of Rhode Island, that agricultural giant. foGrowing crops with electrically generated light is just economically hopeless. But you can't use natural sunlight on the Moon or any other airless body in space unless you put walls on the greenhouse thick enough to shield out solar flares, a requirement that enormously increases the expense of creating cropland. Even if you did that, it wouldn't do you any good on the Moon, because plants won't grow in a light/dark cycle lasting 28 days. But on Mars there is an atmosphere thick enough to protect crops grown on the surface from solar flare. Therefore, thin-walled inflatable plastic greenhouses protected by unpressurized UV-resistant hard-plastic shield domes can be used to rapidly create cropland on the surface. Even without the problems of solar flares and month-long diurnal cycle, such simple greenhouses would be impractical on the Moon as they would create unbearably high temperatures. On Mars, in contrast, the strong greenhouse effect created by such domes would be precisely what is necessary to produce a temperate climate inside. Such domes up to 50 meters in diameter are light enough to be transported from Earth initially, and later on they can be manufactured on Mars out of indigenous materials. Because all the resources to make plastics exist on Mars, networks of such 50- to 100-meter domes could be rapidly manufactured and deployed, opening up large areas of the surface to both shirtsleeve human habitation and agriculture. That's just the beginning, because it will eventually be possible for humans to substantially thicken Mars' atmosphere by forcing the regolith to outgas its contents through a deliberate program of artificially induced global warming. Once that has been accomplished, the habitation domes could be virtually any size, as they would not have to sustain a pressure differential between their interior and exterior. In fact, once that has been done, it will be possible to raise specially bred crops outside the domes. The point to be made is that unlike colonists on any known extraterrestrial body, Martian colonists will be able to live on the surface, not in tunnels, and move about freely and grow crops in the light of day. Mars is a place where humans can live and multiply to large numbers, supporting themselves with products of every description made out of indigenous materials. Mars is thus a place where an actual civilization, not just a mining or scientific outpost, can be developed. And significantly for interplanetary commerce, Mars and Earth are the only two locations in the solar system where humans will be able to grow crops for export. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Every second of colonization delay costs trillions of possible future lives</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Nick Bostrum, Director, Oxford Future of Humanity Institute Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University 2003 http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">As a rough approximation, let us say the Virgo Supercluster contains 10^13 stars. One estimate of the computing power extractable from a star and with an associated planet-sized computational structure, using advanced molecular nanotechnology[2], is 10^42 operations per second.[3] A typical estimate of the human brain’s processing power is roughly 10^17 operations per second or less.[4] Not much more seems to be needed to simulate the relevant parts of the environment in sufficient detail to enable the simulated minds to have experiences indistinguishable from typical current human experiences.[5] Given these estimates, it follows that the potential for approximately 10^38 human lives is lost every century that colonization of our local supercluster is delayed; or equivalently, about 10^31 potential human lives per second. While this estimate is conservative in that it assumes only computational mechanisms whose implementation has been at least outlined in the literature, it is useful to have an even more conservative estimate that does not assume a non-biological instantiation of the potential persons. Suppose that about 10^10 biological humans could be sustained around an average star. Then the Virgo Supercluster could contain 10^23 biological humans. This corresponds to a loss of potential equal to about 10^14 potential human lives per second of delayed colonization. What matters for present purposes is not the exact numbers but the fact that they are huge. Even with the most conservative estimate, assuming a biological implementation of all persons, the potential for one hundred trillion potential human beings is lost for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster.[6] II. THE OPPORTUNITY COST OF DELAYED COLONIZATION From a utilitarian perspective, this huge loss of potential human lives constitutes a correspondingly huge loss of potential value. I am assuming here that the human lives that could have been created would have been worthwhile ones. Since it is commonly supposed that even current human lives are typically worthwhile, this is a weak assumption. Any civilization advanced enough to colonize the local supercluster would likely also have the ability to establish at least the minimally favorable conditions required for future lives to be worth living. The effect on total value, then, seems greater for actions that accelerate technological development than for practically any other possible action. Advancing technology (or its enabling factors, such as economic productivity) even by such a tiny amount that it leads to colonization of the local supercluster just one second earlier than would otherwise have happened amounts to bringing about more than 10^31 human lives (or 10^14 human lives if we use the most conservative lower bound) that would not otherwise have existed. Few other philanthropic causes could hope to mach that level of utilitarian payoff. Utilitarians are not the only ones who should strongly oppose astronomical waste. There are many views about what has value that would concur with the assessment that the current rate of wastage constitutes an enormous loss of potential value. For example, we can take a thicker conception of human welfare than commonly supposed by utilitarians (whether of a hedonistic, experientialist, or desire-satisfactionist bent), such as a conception that locates value also in human flourishing, meaningful relationships, noble character, individual expression, aesthetic appreciation, and so forth. So long as the evaluation function is aggregative (does not count one person’s welfare for less just because there are many other persons in existence who also enjoy happy lives) and is not relativized to a particular point in time (no time-discounting), the conclusion will hold.</span>

== == 
==2AC T-Development/Exploration== 
Development means to make directly available for sale in a land context
Matthews 91
[[http://www.touchngo.com/sp/html/sp-3671.htm]]
Kenai Borough v. Cook Inlet Region & Salamatov Native Assoc. (3/15/91), 807 P 2d 487
Notice: This is subject to formal correction before publication in the Pacific Reporter. Readers are requested to bring typographical or other formal errors to the attention of the Clerk of the Appellate Courts, 303 K Street, Anchorage, Alaska 99501, in order that corrections may be made prior to permanent publication. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALASKA KENAI PENINSULA BOROUGH, ) a Municipal Corporation; and ) Supreme Court No. S-3117 DONALD E. THOMAS, Borough ) Assessor, ) Trial Court Nos. ) 3KN-86-486/3KN-86-841 CI Appellants, ) ) v. ) O P I N I O N ) COOK INLET REGION, INC.; ) SALAMATOF NATIVE ASSOCIATION, ) INC., ) ) Appellees. ) ) Appeal from the Superior Court of the State of Alaska, Third Judicial District, Kenai, Ralph Stemp, Judge. Appearances: Gerald L. Sharp, Peggy A. Roston, Preston, Thorgrimson, Ellis &amp;amp; Holman, Anchorage, for appellants. Mark Rindner, Lane, Powell &amp;amp; Barker, Anchorage, for appellee Cook Inlet Region, Inc. Russell L. Winner, Bruce A. Moore, Winner &amp;amp; Associates, Anchorage, for appellee Salamatof Native Association, Inc. Marjorie L. Odland, Gary I. Amendola, Assistant Attorneys General, Juneau, Douglas B. Baily, Attorney General, Juneau, for Amicus Curiae State of Alaska. Before: Matthews, Chief Justice, Rabinowitz, Burke, Compton, and Moore, Justices. MATTHEWS, Chief Justice.

One indication of ……and installing utilities).
3. Prefer it – Space demands application of real estate analogies
Harper 8
* BA, 2005, University of California, Los Angeles; JD Candidate 2008, The University of Chicago.
<span class="verdana">Technology, Politics, and the New Space Race: The Legality and Desirability of Bush's National Space Policy under the Public and Customary International Laws of Space</span>
<span class="verdana">8 Chi. J. Int'l L. 681</span>

The instant custom theory is ……frontier: space.

4. Key to Predictability
White 97
[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/real_property_rights_in_outer_space.shtml]]
P roceedings, 40th Colloquium on the Law of Outer Space, p.370 ( IISL 1998). Published by American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc. with permission. Released to AIAA in all forms
Attorney at Law, 4465 Kipling Street, Suite 200, Wheat Ridge, Colorado 80033

The 1967 Outer Space Treaty[1] does not provide a positive regime for the governance of space development. The 1979 MoonTreaty[2] provides a regime for development, but that regime prohibits real property rights. For that and other reasons, most nations have not signed or ratified the Moon Treaty.

A development regime ……<span class="UnderlineBold">terrestrial property law</span>.

5.<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Their interpretation rigs the topic towards a flawed model of space education and replicates the reasons why space programs fail in the squo </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hickman 99</span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;"> (</span>The Political Economy of Very Large Space Projects John Hickman, Ph. D. Associate Professor of Government Department of Government and International Relations Berry College http://www.jetpress.org/volume4/space.pdf)

Space development……this crucial problem.
7. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Your interpretation is anti topical- it prevents development</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lee 9</span>(LLB (Hons) BSc (Hons) BA (Int St)(Hons). Candidate PhD, LLM and MSc. Member of the International Institute of Space Law and Lawyer at Minter Ellison, Canberra, Australia. S1i9n4gapore Journal SJCIL (2000) (2000) 4 pp 194 – 251 Reconciling International Space Law with the Commercial Realities of the Twenty-first Century)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">F</span><span class="UnderlineChar">ourthly, as …..</span>outer space<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

==<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">1AR T- Development/Exploration</span>== 


<span class="Author-Date">a. Dictionary</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Merriam-WebsterOnline Dictionary,no date</span>, [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/develop]], JPW
a : <span class="DebateUnderline">to make active or promote the growth of</span> <developed his muscles>
b (1) : to make available or usable<develop natural resources> (2) : <span class="DebateUnderline">to </span>make suitable for commercial or residential purposes <develop land>
<span class="Author-Date">b. Legal</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Maryland Court of Appeals 79</span>, Appeal from the Circuit Court for Prince George's County; Blackwell, J. Steven M. Gilbert, Associate County Attorney for Prince George's County, with whom were Robert B. Ostrom, County Attorney, and Michael O. Connaughton, Deputy County Attorney, on the brief, for appellants, Robert A. Manzi, Russell W. Shipley on the brief, for appellee, Moore, Lowe and Liss, JJ. Liss, J., http://md.findacase.com/research/wfrmDocViewer.aspx/xq/fac.19791206_0040041.MD.htm/qx
Black's Law Dictionary538.... residential or business uses."
Prefer standard constructions of development unless there’s specific statutory guidance
Blumenthal 95
[[http://www.ct.gov/ag/cwp/view.asp?A=1770&Q=281564]]
Attorney General's Opinion
Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal

In the absence..... was intended.").
c. Nasa Def- most contextual
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">at the Goddard Space Flight Center, 8/7/</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">8</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, “Roadmap to a Space Faring Civilization”, http://www.eng.buffalo.edu/~cheetham/index_files/NA08_GSFC_RSFC_VER_1.0.pdf</span>
Definitions Space faring....<span class="Cards"> work in and profit from space. </span>
==1AR T card== 
Counter Interpretation – NASA says development merely needs to ENABLE commercial development of space – this card is fire
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA</span> 19<span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span> (NASA’s Human Exploration and Development of Space Mission Statement <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/nsp/heds.htm]]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">We seek to</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> bring the frontier of space fully within the sphere of human activity to build a better future for all humankind. Imagine new products based on space research, such as high-quality protein crystals to allow the design of new drugs for treating disease. Envision school children learning their lessons by telepresence instruction from the Moon. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Imagine commerce flourishing in space</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, with solar power satellites, or a Martian powerplant to permit a permanent colony. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">These</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> images </span><span class="UnderlineChar">are part of the Human Exploration and Development of Space</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (HEDS) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Enterpris</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">e. </span>The mission of the Enterprise is to open the space frontier<span class="UnderlineChar"> b</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">y exploring, using, and </span>enabling the development of spaceand to expand the human experience into the far reaches of spac<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">e</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. In exploring space, HEDS brings people and machines together to overcome challenges of distance, time, and environment. Robotic science missions survey and characterize other bodies as precursors to eventual human missions. The Space Shuttle and International Space Station (ISS) serve as research platforms to pave the way for sustained human presence in space through critical research on human adaptation. These programs also provide opportunities for research with applications on Earth. </span>HEDS serves as a catalyst for commercial space development<span style="font-size: 8px;">. We will employ breakthrough technologies to revolutionize human space flight. Phase I of the International Space Station icludes nine docking missions by the Space Shuttle to the Russian Mir space station. Questions to Address HEDS pursues the answers to myriad research and engineering questions that must be answered as we learn to live and work in space. HEDS plays an important role in pursuing answers to the questions: What is the fundamental role of gravity and cosmic radiation in vital biological, physical, and chemical systems in space, on other planetary bodies, and on Earth, and how do we apply this fundamental knowledge to the establishment of permanent human presence in space to improve life on Earth? HEDS also plays an important role working with the other Enterprises to pursue answers to other fundamental questions, including: Does life exist elsewhere than on our planet? Goals </span>The goals <span class="UnderlineChar">of the HEDS Enterprise </span>are<span style="font-size: 8px;"> as follows: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Prepare to conduct human missions of exploration to planetary and other bodies in the solar system; Use the environment of space to expand scientific knowledge; </span>Provide safe and affordable<span class="UnderlineChar"> human </span>access to space<span class="UnderlineChar">, establish a human presence in space, and share the human experience of being in space</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">; </span>Enable the commercial development of space<span class="UnderlineChar">and share HEDS knowledge, technologies, and assets that promise to enhance the quality of life on Earth</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>
==<span class="Cards">2AC Holocaust Trivialization</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Their _ evidence trivializes the Holocaust. Vote neg to preserve jewish identity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sneidernman 99</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (Barney, Prof. of law at University of Manitoba, Manitoba LJ) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Are Jews then guilty of “moral bookkeeping”....</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> another pernicious ideology</span>

=<span style="font-size: 16px;">Politics Link Turns</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 16px;">2AC Generic</span>== 

<span class="CiteChar">Only a risk of a link turn- not a hot button issue now and its perceived as politically meritous</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tierney 8</span> (journalist, New York Times. “For Sale: Moon and Mars” http://tierneylab.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/08/29/for-sale-moon-and-mars/)



Those billions of dollars..... monetary prize <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">for future settlements.</span>

Growing consensus in Congress - property rights are needed and they were pushed in previous space plans
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Drake </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bennett</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10px;">, staff writer The Boston Globe, 5/18/</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">08</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10px;">, “My space”, The Boston Globe, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/?page=full</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">There's a variety of opinion....</span>__<span style="font-size: 10px;">space resources </span>and infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 10px;">."</span>


==2AC Aerospace== 
Aerospace lobby support for the plan- huge incentive
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasser 4</span> (Alan Wasser is chairman of <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/|The Space Settlement Institute]]</span>. The space settlement prize
http://www.thespacereview.com/article/249/1**)**

Sam said: “By offering a monopoly...... certainly help with that<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

Aerospace lobby makes it rain
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lasker 8</span> (John Lasker, Inter Press Service News Agency, "Aerospace Lobby Wages Its Own Election Campaign," September 5, http://ipsnews.net/africa/nota.asp?idnews=43804)

COLUMBUS, Ohio, Sep 5 (IPS) - "<span class="UnderlineChar">In about the time it takes you to drive into a gas station</span>.....considered "space hawks" by peace activists.











=Negative= 
for neg cites: [[mailto:jfraser2012@gmail.com|jfraser2012@gmail.com]]

==Strats== 
===GREENHILL=== 
Round 2 versus Dallas Jesuit KD (SPS)
1NC: XO, DoD Anchor Tenant, SKFTA, Spending, ASPEC, case
2NC: DoD Anchor Tenant, case
1NR: SKFTA
2NR: DoD Anchor Tenant, SKFTA

Round 3 versus New Trier BN (SPS)
1NC: ASPEC, T-Its, DoD Anchor Tenant, SKFTA, Spending, case
2NC: Case, DoD Anchor Tenant
1NR: SKFTA
2NR: SKFTA, case

Round 6 versus Centennial MK (DSCOVR)
1NC: T Substantial, XO, SKFTA, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: SKFTA
2NR: SKFTA, Case

===SAINT MARKS=== 
Round 1 versus Houston Memorial LC (SPS)
1NC: T-Its, Prizes CP, China Currency, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: China Currency
2NR: China Currency, Case


Round 3 versus Pace ES (ORS)
1NC: XO, Bomber Tradeoff DA, Super Committee DA, T-Increase, Stratosats, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: Bomber Tradeoff DA
2NR: Bomber Tradeoff DA, Case

Round 5 versus Greenhill SU (Space Guard)
1NC: T-Increase, Super Committee, DOT Offsets CP, case
2NC: Super Committee DA
1NR: DOT Offsets CP
2NR: DOT Offsets CP, Super Committee DA

Octafinals versus HoFlo GS (DRAGNETS)
1NC: T-Increase, Super Committee, XO, Bomber Tradeoff DA, case
2NC: Case
1NR: Bomber Tradeoff DA
2NR: Bomber Tradeoff DA, Case




==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">SKAFTA DA</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Will Pass – Top of docket, obama push and bipart support</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Reuters, 9/15 (http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/16/usa-china-trade-idUSS1E78E20V20110916)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The push for China currency legislation comes as President Barack Obama is urging Congress to approve free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama and legislation known as Trade Adjustment Assistance to help U.S. workers displaced by foreign competition. U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk told reporters on Wednesday he expected Obama to send the pacts to Congress within the next several weeks. The bills are expected to pass with bipartisan support, but many Democrats are anxious about the trade deals fearing they will lead to more manufacturing job losses. Reid told reporters on Thursday he planned to take up the Trade Adjustment Assistance bill next week. "My goal is to get that done as quickly as we can" and then send it to the House for approval, Reid said. He added that would hopefully set the stage for action on the three trade pacts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">SPS saps polcap</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Day 8 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">(Dwayne A., Program Officer – Space Studies Board of the National Research Council, “Knights in Shining Armor”, The Space Review, 6-9, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">If all this is true, why is the space activist community so excited about the NSSO study? That is not hard to understand. They all know that the economic case for space solar power is abysmal. The best estimates are that SSP will cost at least three times the cost per kilowatt hour of even relatively expensive nuclear power. But the military wants to dramatically lower the cost of delivering fuel to distant locations, which could possibly change the cost-benefit ratio. The military savior also theoretically solves some other problems for SSP advocates. One is the need for deep pockets to foot the immense development costs. The other is an institutional avatar—one of the persistent policy challenges for SSP has been the fact that responsibility for it supposedly “falls through the cracks” because neither NASA nor the Department of Energy wants responsibility. If the military takes on the SSP challenge, the mission will finally have a home. But there’s also another factor at work: naïveté. Space activists tend to have little understanding of military space, coupled with an idealistic impression of its management compared to NASA, whom many space activists have come to despise. For instance, they fail to realize that the military space program is currently in no better shape, and in many cases worse shape, than NASA. The majority of large military space acquisition programs have experienced major problems, in many cases cost growth in excess of 100%. Although NASA has a bad public record for cost overruns, the DoD’s less-public record is far worse, and military space has a bad reputation in Congress, which would never allow such a big, expensive new program to be started. Again, this is not to insult the fine work conducted by those who produced the NSSO space solar power study. They accomplished an impressive amount of work without any actual resources. But it is nonsensical for members of the space activist community to claim that “the military supports space solar power” based solely on a study that had no money, produced by an organization that has no clout.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Capital key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Mclarty and Cunningham, 11 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">THOMAS "MACK" MCLARTY III AND NELSON W. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. McLarty was chief of staff to President Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort. Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Now, in a few short weeks, Mr. Obama has renegotiated the U.S.-Korea free trade agreement and announced that it will be a priority in the new Congress. He has taken steps to resolve a longstanding trade dispute with Mexico over trucks that goes back to the Clinton years. And, with his selection of Mr. Daley, the president has hired the man who can make this trade revival a reality. What now? Our experience tells us that the only way to push a major trade agreement through Congress—even one where the nominally pro-trade GOP rules the House—is with strong and unyielding presidential leadership, a unified White House staff and cabinet, and a genuinely bipartisan approach to stakeholders and the Congress. First, the president must be fully committed. Nafta was a bipartisan success in no small part because of the personal involvement of Mr. Clinton and sometimes tortuous negotiations with members of Congress. It's true that some pork was doled out and more than one bridge was built as a result of a Nafta vote—something they probably still understand in Chicago. Second, the White House and cabinet must be unified in pulling for passage. Everyone from Vice President Joe Biden to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk must be fully engaged, without hesitation. Don't forget the crucial role that then-Vice President Al Gore's 1993 debate with Ross Perot played in swinging public opinion in favor of Nafta. Third, the effort must be genuinely bipartisan. We'll need scores of members from both sides to make passage possible (this is particularly true with a large tea party GOP caucus that is as yet undefined on trade). Perhaps Mr. Obama could even take a page from the 1993 playbook and bring into the White House a prominent Republican—former U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, former Reagan Chief of Staff Ken Duberstein, or a former congressman such as Jim Kolbe or Chris Shays, for example—to help quarterback the effort.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">key to solve heg, econ, trade, and korea conflict —soft power, diplomacy, economics, and hard power.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Hubbard, 11 – Senior Director for Asia, McLarty Associates and Former Ambassador to South Korea (4/7/11, Thomas, Congressional Documents and Publications, “House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade Hearing - Brady Announces Third in a Series of Three Hearings on the Pending, Job-Creating Trade Agreements: South Korea Trade Agreement,” Factiva,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The United States-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) is a critical step forward for American job creation and ensuring U.S. economic competitiveness in Asia. This trade agreement is also an important investment in the overall U.S.-South Korea alliance at a time when heightened tension on the Korean peninsula requires our solidarity with our allies in the south and it will be a strong manifestation of the U.S. commitment to remain a major presence in Asia. I urge Congress to work toward passage of KORUS as soon as possible. Sixty years ago, the United States stood with the Republic of Korea in countering aggression from the communist North. That bloody conflict, which cost the lives of more than 35,000 Americans, has yet to result in a permanent peace. North Korea continues to challenge the world through its nuclear weapons programs and its recent attacks on the South have reminded us of the military threat and raised deep concerns in Northeast Asia. The Korean Peninsula remains a dangerous place. However, there has been a spectacular success story amidst ongoing tensions. South Korea has risen to become the world's 14th largest economy, a vibrant democracy, and a valued ally for the United States in a critical region. It is currently America's 7th largest trading partner and 7th largest export market. The economic arguments for KORUS are compelling. The most economically significant trade agreement (FTA) negotiated by the United States in over 15 years, KORUS would boost U.S. goods exports by up to $11 billion dollars and U.S. GDP by nearly $12 billion, according to the independent, nonpartisan U.S. International Trade Commission. The agreement would create as many as 70,000 new jobs for Americans at a time when we most need them. It is important to bear in mind that KORUS offers an opportunity to level the playing field with a trading partner whose market has historically been less open than ours. Currently, Korea's average duty on industrial and consumer goods is more than double that of the U.S., and its average duty on agriculture is more than four times that of the U.S. Looking at these differences, it is clear that the U.S. will be in a better position across the board to benefit from the market opening that will flow from KORUS. Ninety-five percent of bilateral trade in industrial and consumer products will become duty free in three years and nearly two-thirds of U.S. agricultural exports--everything from feed corn, to frozen French fries, to fine wines--will enter Korea duty-free as soon as KORUS comes into effect. In addition, KORUS will establish a fair and transparent legal framework for U.S. investors in Korea, and benefit U.S. exporters in telecommunications, financial, pharmaceutical, and other sectors where U.S. companies are on the cutting edge. Koreans see KORUS as a means to make its economy more open, and that is very much in the U.S. interest. More broadly, moving ahead with KORUS will be a concrete demonstration that the United States is prepared to lead on trade in Asia, a signal that all of our partners in the region want to see. We cannot afford to wait on the sidelines while the region pursues agreements that leave us out. The economies of Asia are in the process of integration and are now trading more with each other than they are with the United States. Bilateral and regional free trade agreements are proliferating, and the ROK is in the vanguard. Less than a decade ago, the United States was by far South Korea's leading trading partner. Now, we are competing with the European Union for third place, after China and Japan. With South Korea set to implement an FTA with the European Union in July, we can expect to fall to fourth place, and American farmers, manufacturers, and service providers will be the losers. KORUS will give us special access to the Korean market, enhancing our ability to compete with China, Japan and India, and Europe, even as it strengthens Korea's ties to the U.S. KORUS may also provoke wider liberalization. Approval of KORUS will lend impetus to the effort to develop the Trans-Pacific Partnership. And Asia's third largest economy, Japan, may feel compelled to seek a similar agreement. This, too, would be great for America, provided Japan agrees to open its markets to the same degree Korea will under KORUS. But the economic benefits of KORUS are just part of the equation. Strategic interests are also overwhelming at a time when the U.S. is dealing with a host of new security threats, including North Korea's nuclear weapons program, this free trade agreement will strengthen our strategic partnership with an important Asian ally that shares our belief in democracy and has stepped up to the plate with significant military and economic support in the Middle East and Afghanistan. While creating new American jobs, KORUS will reinforce the full partnership we have with South Korea at a time when that country is playing a growing international role. Furthermore, KORUS will have positive strategic effects that will resonate beyond the Korean peninsula. One of South Korea's primary goals in seeking the Free Trade Agreement with the U.S. is to broaden and strengthen its relationship with its ally at a time when China's rapid rise has provoked significant changes in power relationships in Asia. We strongly share the Republic of Korea's interest in solidifying and broadening this critical alliance. A failure to approve KORUS would be exactly the wrong signal to North Korea and to our allies and friends in Asia who want us to remain strongly engaged. The agreement with South Korea will stand as a new anchor for our longstanding leadership position in a rapidly changing Asia. For more than fifty years, the United States' political and economic commitment to Asia has contributed to the region's stability and prosperity. Nowhere has our engagement been more positive than with the Republic of Korea, which, with our help, rose from the ruins of the Korean War to become a vibrant democracy and one of the largest economies in the world. Americans and South Koreans shared blood together to prevent a communist takeover of the entire Peninsula 60 years ago. We still stand together in facing the many challenges from the North. Republic of Korea Forces stood with us when we needed them in Vietnam and continue to support our common interests in today's military conflicts. The FTA with Korea will strengthen America's relationship with a long-time ally and enhance our presence and influence in the region. I am convinced that America, for its own sake, must remain a leader in Asia. Ratification of this agreement is one way of ensuring that our engagement with the world's fastest growing region will support our fundamental security and economic interests into the future.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Hayes and Green 10 (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, and Michael Hamel, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report, 1-5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">ASPEC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The 1AC doesn’t specific their agent – that’s a voter:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">a. Aff conditionality – they can change their plan after hearing our strategy – the plan is the focus of debate</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">b. 1NC Strategy – all neg args depend on who does the plan – we can’t talk about space intricacies without knowing the agent– also kills CP competition</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">This guts education about the topic</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Livingston '1 – adjunct professor at the University of North Dakota Graduate School of Space Studies; Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) also at Golden Gate University (Dr.David, 2001, "Barriers to Space Enterprise," http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/barriers_to_space_enterprise.shtml, RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Relationships within government organizations and agencies, such as those upon which the NSTP was designed, can often lead to confusing policy, especially for commercial space matters. For example, the NSTP provides that the departments of Transportation (DOT) and Commerce (DOC) should promote creative arrangements between the public and private sectors. There is also an interagency working group representing the DOD, the DOC, the DOT, NASA, and the intelligence community which is to make certain that a commercial voice is heard throughout the process of designing a new launch vehicle. Unfortunately, barriers to space enterprise often result from the actions of these agencies as they are not always in harmony with one another regarding space policy. This situation has been documented by Joan Johnson-Freese and Roger Handberg in their book Space: The Dormant Frontier. In this book, the authors clearly state that the NSTP often fails to obtain cooperation or coordination between the DOD, NASA, and the other agencies for they only cooperate superficially.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Security K</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The affirmative represents the innate urge to dominate – the history of U.S. space exploration is marked with ignorance towards local issues and destructive impulse. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Bormann and Sheehan, 9 [Natalie Bormann, Department of Politics, Northeastern University, Boston, and Michael Sheehan, Professor of International Relations at Swansea University, Securing Outer Space, 2009, p. 1-3]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">That day in October 1957 also marked the beginning of serious concerns regarding the modes and kinds of space activities that we would be witnessing, and these concerns were dominated from the outset by the fact that the first journey into space was accompanied by - if not entirely driven by - the Cold War arms race. The initial steps in the exploration of space were inexorably linked with pressures to militarize and securitize this new dimension. As a geographical realm that had hitherto been pristine in relation to mankind's warlike history, this immediate tendency for space exploration to be led by military rationales raised profound philosophical and political questions. What should the purpose of space activity be, and what should it not be? And how would we approach, understand and distinguish between military activities, civilian ones, commercial ones, and SO forth? More than a half century later, the questions as to what we bring to space' as well as how space activities challenge us, and to what effects, seem ever more pressing. While the debate over some of the assumptions, modes and effects of the space age never truly abated, most of the contributors in this volume agree that there is sense of urgency in raising concern, re-conceptualizing the modes of the debate, and engaging critically with the limits and possibilities of the dimension of space vis-a-vis the political. This sense of urgency reflects the revitalization of national space programmes, and particularly that of the United States and China since the start of the twenty-first century. In January 2004, at NASA headquarters, US President George W. Bush announced the need for a new vision for America's civilian and scientific space programme. This call culminated in a Commission's Report on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, which emphasized the fundamental role of space for US technological leadership, economic validity, and most importantly, security. While this certainly stimulated the debate over the future direction of US space exploration, it has led many to express concern over the implicitly aggressive and ambitious endeavor of colonizing space in the form of calling upon the need for permanent access to and presence in space. A critical eye has also been cast on the Commission's endorsement of the privatization and commercialization of space and its support for implementing a far larger presence of private industry in space operations. Certainly also at the forefront of the current debate on space activities are notions of its militarization and securitization. The deployment of technologies with the aim to secure, safeguard, defend and control certain assets, innovations and activities in space is presented to us as an inevitable and necessary development. It is argued that just as the development of reconnaissance aircraft in the Fitst World War led inexorably to the emergence of fighter aircraft to deny the enemy the ability to carry out such reconnaissance and then bombers to deliver weapons against targets that could be identified and reached from the air, so too has the 'multiplier effect' on military capabilities of satellites encouraged calls for the acquisition of space-based capabilities to defend one's own satellites and attack those of adversaries, and in the longer term, to place weapons in space that could attack targets on Earth. Here, the Bush administration's indication that it envisaged a prominent role for space-based weapons in the longer term as part of the controversial national missile defence system contributed to the atmosphere of controversy surrounding space policy. As space has become crucial to, and utilized by, far more international actors, so the political implications of space activities have multiplied. The members of the European Space Agency have pursued space development for economic, scientific and social reasons. Their model of international space Cooperation has been seen as offering an example to other areas of the world, particularly in their desire to avoid militarizing efforts. Yet even Europe has begun to develop military space capabilities, following a path that has already been pursued by other key states such as China and India, suggesting that there is an inevitability about the militarization, and perhaps ultimately the weaponization, of space. How we conceptualize space has therefore become of fundamental moral, political and strategic importance. Outer space challenges the political imagination as it has always challenged the human imagination in many other fields. For millennia people have looked up to the stars and imagined it as the home of gods or the location of the afterlife. For centuries they have looked to it for answers about the physical nature of the universe and the place of mankind's ancestral home within it. And for decades, it has been seen as the supreme test for advanced technology. Space exploration is a driver of innovation, encouraging us to dream of what might be possible, to push back the boundaries of thought and to change the nature of ontological realities by drawing on novel epistemologies. The physical exploration of the solar system through the application of science and technology has been the visible demonstration of this. The challenges that Space poses for political theory are profound. If space-is about the use of imagination, and the application of novel developments to create new possibilities for human progress, how has political theory and political reality responded to this challenge'? The answer, at least thus far, is both that it has changed everything, and that it has changed very little. For international law, most notably in the Outer Space Treaty, the denial of territoriality and limitations on sovereignty beyond planet Earth offers a fundamental challenge to the way in which international relations has been conceptualized and operationalized in the modern era. On the other hand, the dream of many, that humanity would leave behind its dark side as it entered space, has not been realized. For the most part, the exploration and utilization to space has reflected, not challenged, the political patterns and impulses that characterized twentieth-century politics and international relations. Propaganda, military rivalry, economic competition and exploitation, North—South discrimination and so on have extended their reach beyond the atmosphere. Industrialization and imperialism in the nineteenth century helped produce powerful new social theories, as well as new philosophy, political ideologies and conceptualizarions of the meaning of politics and the nature of human destiny. The realities of the space age demand novel social theories of the same order.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">vote neg to reject security logic. Only direct resistance can return the government issued gift of security.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Neocleous 8 (Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether - to reject it as so ideologically loaded in favour of the state that any real political thought other than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up. That is clearly something that can not be achieved within the limits of bourgeois thought and thus could never even begin to be imagined by the security intellectual. It is also something that the constant iteration of the refrain 'this is an insecure world' and reiteration of one fear, anxiety and insecurity after another will also make it hard to do. But it is something that the critique of security suggests we may have to consider if we want a political way out of the impasse of security. This impasse exists because security has now become so all-encompassing that it marginalises all else, most notably the constructive conflicts, debates and discussions that animate political life. The constant prioritising of a mythical security as a political end - as the political end constitutes a rejection of politics in any meaningful sense of the term. That is, as a mode of action in which differences can be articulated, in which the conflicts and struggles that arise from such differences can be fought for and negotiated, in which people might come to believe that another world is possible - that they might transform the world and in turn be transformed. Security politics simply removes this; worse, it remoeves it while purportedly addressing it. In so doing it suppresses all issues of power and turns political questions into debates about the most efficient way to achieve 'security', despite the fact that we are never quite told - never could be told - what might count as having achieved it. Security politics is, in this sense, an anti-politics,"' dominating political discourse in much the same manner as the security state tries to dominate human beings, reinforcing security fetishism and the monopolistic character of security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security politics, not add yet more 'sectors' to it in a way that simply expands the scope of the state and legitimises state intervention in yet more and more areas of our lives. Simon Dalby reports a personal communication with Michael Williams, co-editor of the important text Critical Security Studies, in which the latter asks: if you take away security, what do you put in the hole that's left behind? But I'm inclined to agree with Dalby: maybe there is no hole."' The mistake has been to think that there is a hole and that this hole needs to be filled with a new vision or revision of security in which it is re-mapped or civilised or gendered or humanised or expanded or whatever. All of these ultimately remain within the statist political imaginary, and consequently end up reaffirming the state as the terrain of modern politics, the grounds of security. The real task is not to fill the supposed hole with yet another vision of security, but to fight for an alternative political language which takes us beyond the narrow horizon of bourgeois security and which therefore does not constantly throw us into the arms of the state. That's the point of critical politics: to develop a new political language more adequate to the kind of society we want. Thus while much of what I have said here has been of a negative order, part of the tradition of critical theory is that the negative may be as significant as the positive in setting thought on new paths. For if security really is the supreme concept of bourgeois society and the fundamental thematic of liberalism, then to keep harping on about insecurity and to keep demanding 'more security' (while meekly hoping that this increased security doesn't damage our liberty) is to blind ourselves to the possibility of building real alternatives to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. To situate ourselves against security politics would allow us to circumvent the debilitating effect achieved through the constant securitising of social and political issues, debilitating in the sense that 'security' helps consolidate the power of the existing forms of social domination and justifies the short-circuiting of even the most democratic forms. It would also allow us to forge another kind of politics centred on a different conception of the good. We need a new way of thinking and talking about social being and politics that moves us beyond security. This would perhaps be emancipatory in the true sense of the word. What this might mean, precisely, must be open to debate. But it certainly requires recognising that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognising that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learning to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and 'insecurities' that come with being human; it requires accepting that 'securitizing' an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">T- Its</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">A. interpretation- Its means belonging to in relation to a noun</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Encarta, 9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">(Encarta World English Dictionary, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861622735)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">its [ its ] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">adjective Definition: indicating possession: used to indicate that something belongs or relates to something</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The park changed its policy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">b. violation- the aff is private development and exploration of space, not federal- they can’t contract to private sector agents</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">c. vote neg for limits- the aff allows any permutation of private actors and international actors that the usfg can contract out to independently blows the lid off the topic and destroys the predictability of limits- marginalizes neg strategy to consult and the dao k</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Anchor Tenant CP</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Text: The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector. The United States federal government should offer long-term, low-interest, guaranteed loans to any private company that expresses interest in investing in space-based solar power.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">CP solves—DoD as anchor tenant is the only way to get the private sector on board</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">NSSO 7 (October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that industry has stated that the #1 driver and requirement for generating industry interest and investment in developing the initial operational SBSP systems is acquiring an anchor tenant customer, or customers, that are willing to sign contracts for high</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">value SBSP services. Industry is particularly interested in the possibility that the DoD might be willing to pay for SBSP services delivered to the warfighter in forward bases in amounts of 5</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">50 MWe continuous, at a price of $1 or more per kilowatt</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">hour. o Recommendation: The SBSP Study Group recommends that the DoD should immediately conduct a requirements analysis of underlying long</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">term DoD demand for secure, reliable, and mobile energy delivery to the war</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">fighter, what the DoD might be willing to pay for a SBSP service delivered to the warfighter and under what terms and conditions, and evaluate the appropriateness and effectiveness of various approaches to signing up as an anchor tenant customer of a commercially</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">delivered service, such as the NextView acquisition approach pioneered by the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">imaging Agency. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">SSP will be equal to current energy costs for the DoD—it must begin with the DoD before costs are low enough for private sector spillover</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Betancourt 10 (Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Military Interest: The U.S. military was spending over $1 per kilowatt hour for electrical power delivered to troops in forward military positions due to transportation and security costs. This estimate of cost does not include the significant numbers of soldiers killed or injured protecting supply convoys. Unlike the public sector where SBSP would need to cost as low as 8-10 cents per kilowatt to be a viable energy option, for military purposes SBSP could still be viable at a cost closer to $1 per kilowatt .[29] The NSSO Study proposed that DoD partner with private companies and foreign allies in creating a test model for SBSP. The DoD would agree to be an anchor tenant customer for the initial SBSP systems. The DoD’s high energy supply costs could justify the high initial implementation cost of SBSP. Energy companies working with the DoD could also begin to supply SBSP to the public sector as the costs of SBSP lower over time.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Loan guarantees guarantee private sector investment </span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">NSSO 7 (National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Recommendation: The SBSP Study Group recommends that consistent with the U.S. Government incentives provided to other carbon</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">neutral energy technologies, it is critical for the U.S. Government to provide similar incentives to encourage private U.S. industry to co</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">invest in the development of SBSP systems. Specifically, the following incentives should be provided to U.S. industry as soon as possible to encourage private investment in the development and construction of SBSP systems: 􀂃 Legislation at both the federal and state level that specifies — and clarifies existing law as specifying — that SBSP is eligible for all pollution credits, carbon credits, and carbon off</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">sets that are available to other clean and renewable energy sources such as wind, hydro, ground solar, and nuclear 􀂃 A federal loan guarantee program of up to 80% should be created for U.S. companies engaged in the business of developing, owning and operating SBSP systems. This program should either be an extension of, or modeled after, the existing loan guarantee program provided to the nuclear power industry. 􀂃 The U.S. Government should enact a 30</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">year tax holiday on any profits made by U.S. industry in the successful operation of space</span><span style="font-family: 'cambria math','serif';">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">based solar power systems. </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">China Currency Bad DA</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China currency won't pass – that avoids a trade war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Wei 10/14</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> -- business staff writer @ China Daily (He, 2011, "Concern over currency bill," http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/cndy/2011-10/14/content_13895416.htm, RG)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China said</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> on Wednesday that </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> "essentially </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">protectionist" bill was on the verge of **triggering a trade war**</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">In response, Locke told the media that "</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the last thing the US or China wants would be to have a trade war where everybody loses</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> ... we must do everything possible to avoid it". </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Analysts see a slim chance of the bill becoming law</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">. Dan Steinbock, research director of International Business at the India China America Institute, said that along with</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> the US House, the litmus test of the bill</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> will be the US Treasury's next report and its view of the yuan, presumably in the coming days. "The </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">White House is engaged in a difficult balancing act</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">. However, the currency bill is driven by protectionist goals. "Some harm has already occurred even if the bill is not passed. As a result, the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">challenge now is to strengthen trust in US-Chinese relations, not to pave the way for a trade war </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">that would hurt both" sides, Steinbock said in an e-mailed reply to questions from China Daily.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">PC k2 hold back China currency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Palmer 9/2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> -- trade journalist @ Reuters (Doug, 2011, "Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall," http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902, RG)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Democrats</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> like</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> House Minority Leader Nancy </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Pelosi and</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> Senator Charles </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Schumer</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> also </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">have signaled plans to push for a vote on legislation to pressure China to revalue its currency </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">in conjunction with the free trade pacts. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">That would inflame relations</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> with Beijing and possibly trigger tit-for-tat trade retaliation **if Obama does not expend political capital to block it.**</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">[LINK]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China currency bill collapses relations </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Isidore 10/13</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> -- staff writer @ CNN Money (Chris, 2011, "China-U.S. trade wars: What's at stake," http://money.cnn.com/2011/10/13/news/international/china_us_trade/?source=cnn_bin, RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China and the U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">are</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> the world's two largest economies and arguably each other's most important trading partners. And now, it seems the two countries find themselves</span>__<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">on the brink of a trade war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">. The U.S. Senate, in a rare show of bipartisan agreement, passed a </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">bill</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> Tuesday that would slap steep taxes known as tariffs on imports from nations with undervalued currencies. It is a provision aimed squarely at China's yuan, and it </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">prompted harsh attacks from Chinese officials. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">"</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Should the proposed legislation be made into law</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">,</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">result would be a trade war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> and that would be a lose-lose situation for both sides," </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">said</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> Vice </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Foreign Minister Cui</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> Tiankai. "</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">It would be **detrimental** to</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> the development of economic ties and might have an **adverse impact on bilateral relations**."</span>__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Sino relations encompass every issue and solve extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Wenzhong</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">2/7/</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">4</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">“Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States --In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of China-US diplomatic relations;” Zhou Wenzhong - </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China;2004/02/07; [[http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/wjdt/zyjh/t64286.htm]]</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China's development needs a peaceful international environment</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">, particularly in its periphery. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">We will continue to play a constructive role in global and regional affairs and sincerely look forward to amicable coexistence and friendly cooperation with </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">all other countries, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the United States</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> included. We will continue to push for good-neighborliness, friendship and partnership and dedicate ourselves to peace, stability and prosperity in the region. Thus </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China's development will</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> also mean stronger prospect of peace in the Asia-Pacific region and the world at large. China and the US should, and can, work together for peace, stability and prosperity in the region. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">Given the highly complementary nature of the two economies, China's reform, opening up and rising economic size have opened broad horizon for sustained China-US trade and economic cooperation. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">By deepening our commercial partnership,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> which has already delivered tangible benefits to the two peoples, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">we can do still more and also make greater contribution to global economic stability and prosperity.Terrorism, cross-boundary crime, proliferation of advanced weapons, and spread of deadly diseases pose a common threat to mankind. China and the US have extensive shared stake and common responsibility for meeting these challenges, maintaining world peace and security and addressing other major issues bearing on human survival and development</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">. China is ready to keep up its coordination and cooperation in these areas with the US and the rest of the international community. During his visit to the US nearly 25 years ago, Deng Xiaoping said, "</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The interests of our two peoples and those of world peace require that we view our relations from the overall international situation and a long-term strategic perspective."</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;"> Thirteen years ago when China-US relations were at their lowest ebb, Mr. Deng said, "In the final analysis, China-US relations have got to get better." We are optimistic about the tomorrow of China-US relations. We have every reason to believe that so long as the two countries view and handle the relationship with a strategic perspective, adhere to the guiding principles of the three joint communiqués and firmly grasp the common interests of the two countries, we will see even greater accomplishments in China-US relations.</span>

==<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">2NC U</span>== 
=== === 
=== === 
=====Not passing – House blocks and Obama won’t sign===== 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Washington Times 10/12</span> (Washington Times, 10/12/11 [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/oct/12/boehner-still-defiant-china-currency-bill/?utm_source=RSS_Feed&utm_medium=RSS]])
=== === 

=== === 
Despite bipartisan supportin the Senate <span class="UnderlineChar">for a bill to punish China for its currency policies</span>, House Speaker John A. Boehner hasn’t backed down on his opposition to the measure, causing doubt whether it will get a vote in the GOP-controlled House. Mr. <span class="UnderlineChar">Boehner</span>, Ohio Republican, <span class="UnderlineChar">told reporters Wednesday that while he has concerns regarding how China values its currency, “what I don’t believe is appropriate is for the Congress of the United States to take this issue up and to do it within a legislation form</span>. “Given the volatility in the world markets, given the uncertainty in the world economy, for the Congress of the United States to be taking this step at this moment in time poses a very severe risk of a trade war and unintended consequences that could come as a result.” Mr. Boehner didn’t say whether he would allow the bill to come to the House floor for a vote, which likely would get some — and possibly significant — support from his Republican caucus. The Senate on Tuesday passed a bill on a 63-35 vote that would allow compensatory tariffs to be imposed on goods from countries that are deemed to be undervaluing their currency. While the bill — which received the support of 16 Republicans — doesn’t name China directly, its main target is clearly the Asian giant. Economists say China’s currency, the yuan, is undervalued by at least 25 percent to 30 percent against the U.S. dollar. That means that Chinese goods sold in the United States become 25 percent to 30 percent cheaper, and U.S. goods exported to China that much more expensive. Mr. Boehner also took a shot at President Obama <span class="UnderlineChar">for failing to give a position on the bill.</span> “While the president’s out campaigning instead of governing, it’d be nice for the president of the United States to make clear what his position,” he said. “It’s time for the president to lead.” But the bill presents a thorny problem for the White House. Many in Mr. Obama’s political base want to take steps to confront China for its economic policies and its massive trade surplus with the United States, but <span class="UnderlineChar">presidents also try to keep as free a hand as possible in the conduct of foreign relations, and </span>having a policy dictated from Capitol Hill could be problematic. The move also risks retaliation from Beijing, which is the largest foreign holder of U.S. Treasury debt. <span class="UnderlineChar">The White House has implied that Mr. </span>Obama wouldn’t sign the bill if it passes both chambers<span class="UnderlineChar"> as written</span>.
=== === 

=== === 
====Not passing – business and House opposition==== 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Xinhua 10/12</span> (Xinhua News Agency, 10/12/11 [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2011-10/13/c_131188005.htm]])
=== === 

=== === 
WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 (Xinhua) -- A controversial currency bill passed by the U.S. Senate on Tuesday posed a "very severe risk" of a trade war, U.S. House of Representatives Speaker John Boehner warned on Wednesday. Boehner told reporters on Wednesday that given the volatility of the global markets and the world economy, this measure will lead to unintended consequences. <span class="UnderlineChar">The U.S. Senate</span> on Tuesday <span class="UnderlineChar">passed the controversial currency bill </span>which threatens to punish China for so-called "currency manipulation" with retaliatory tariffs, despite strong opposition from China and many U.S. business groups. The Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, sponsored by Senators Charles Schumer, Sherrod Brown and other Democratic and Republican Senators, cleared the Senate on Tuesday. The bill is especially directed at China's currency, the yuan, which the United States claimed is undervalued to make Chinese exports to the United States cheaper. The prospects of the bill becoming law remains in doubt <span class="UnderlineChar">with House Republican leaders' opposition to the measure, as the </span>bill still has to clear the Republican-led House<span class="UnderlineChar"> and then be signed by U.S. President Barack Obama before becoming law. Experts held that </span>Boehner's opposition could kill the bill before any vote on the House floor. Boehner last week called the legislation a "dangerous" move.
=== === 

=== === 
====Not passing – House and Obama opposition==== 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Steinhauer 10/11</span> (Jennifer, writer for Ocala.com, a FL news agency, 10/11/11 [[http://www.ocala.com/article/20111011/ZNYT01/110113020?p=1&tc=pg]])
=== === 

=== === 
At the same time, <span class="UnderlineChar">House </span>Republicans have made it clear they have no intention of bringing the currency measure to the floor<span class="UnderlineChar">, and the White House has given it a chilly reception</span>, fearing it too blunt an instrument against China, which has slowly moved to increase its currency value. <span class="UnderlineChar">This is a </span>reverse of last year when a similar, though less stringent, measure passed the House <span class="UnderlineChar">and the Senate neglected to take it up</span>, preferring its own bill. <span class="UnderlineChar">Democrats are now trying, against political headwinds, to force a vote on that same measure against the desires of Republican leaders</span>. The tennis ball volleying of the trade legislation underscores the vexing problem that China presents to Congress<span class="UnderlineChar">: Many members</span>, especially those from manufacturing states, <span class="UnderlineChar">want to be seen as doing something about that nation’s trade advantages, yet the White House and some leaders in both parties think it is far too risky to actually pull the trigger on a solution</span>. As a result, <span class="UnderlineChar">even as some Senate Republicans and many House Democrats pressure House Republicans to get on board, </span>the Obama administration is counting on House Republicans to do what they want, which is to leave any bill to punish the Chinese government over its currency policies in a file cabinet<span class="UnderlineChar">. “Shifting political dynamics and changes in rhetoric about free trade tend to play out in unpredictable ways against the background of a bipartisan desire to get tough with China</span>,” said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University. “<span class="UnderlineChar">A lurking concern is that this bill won’t help the U.S. economy significantly and could instead hurt job growth if China retaliates aggressively</span> and trade tensions compound economic uncertainty, setting back an already fragile recovery. I suspect both parties are a little concerned about supporting such legislation if it backfires. “ Regional politics, White House pressures and jurisdictional disputes have impeded a deal.<span class="UnderlineChar"> Large multinational companies, especially those that have large investments in China, vehemently oppose the bill,</span> while smaller manufacturers facing more import competition, tend to favor it.
=== === 
=====Not passing – Boehner and Obama block===== 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AP 10/11</span> (Associated Press, 10/11/11 [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gMmIC0BEni8tmb0JrOvQP-DU61gw?docId=CNG.c12f3c43916904a6f399b9c9c858913c.241]])
=== === 

=== === 
WASHINGTON — Defying Chinese anger and White House warnings, the US Senate passed legislation to punish Beijing for alleged currency manipulation <span class="UnderlineChar">w</span>idely blamed here for costing American jobs. Lawmakers voted 63-35 to approve <span class="UnderlineChar">the measure</span>, which faced a gloomy future in the Republican-led House of Representatives amid warnings from leaders there that it could spark a trade war between the two economic giants. "We are in trade war. But today we're fighting back," said Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown, one of the bill's chief champions, celebrating an end to "the unilateral disarmament approach we've taken for the past decade." China reacted furiously Wednesday to the passing of the bill. China's foreign ministry called it a breach of World Trade Organisation rules, while the official Xinhua news agency said it was a "ticking time bomb" that could set off a trade war. "It is a serious breach of WTO rules, which cannot solve the US's own economic and employment issues, and will... seriously interfere with Sino-US economic and trade relations," said foreign ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu. The proposal, powered by a tide of US voter frustration at a sour economy and high unemployment ahead of November 2012 elections, envisions retaliatory duties on Chinese exports if the value of the yuan is unfairly "misaligned." Republican House Speaker John Boehner has signalled that he will not bring the legislation to a vote, calling it "dangerous" to economic relations between the world's number-one and number-two economies. "You could start a trade war. And a trade war, given the economic uncertainty here and all around the world -- it's just very dangerous, and we should not be engaged in this," Boehner said recently. <span class="UnderlineChar">President Barack Obama last week declined to back the legislation and worried it could violate World Trade Organization (WTO) rules</span> even as he accused China of "gaming the trade system" in a way that hurts the US economy.
=== === 
=St Marks Round 3 vs. Pace= 
=<span style="font-size: 13px;">XO</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The President of the United States should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space by developing military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development, and reconstitution of military satellites.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Observation 1: Competition </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches</span>
<span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Merriam-Webster's</span>**</span>Online Collegiate Dictionary,<span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">No Date</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">,</span>
http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">used</span> as a function word before a noun or a substantivized adjective <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">to indicate reference to a group as a whole</span> <the elite>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>
Lousiana House of Representatives 5 (http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)

<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Resolution A legislative instrument that</span> generally <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">is used for</span> making declarations, stating <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">policies</span>, and making decisions where some other form is not required. A bill includes the constitutionally required enacting clause; a resolution uses the term "resolved". Not subject to a time limit for introduction nor to governor's veto. ( Const. Art. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)

C. Normal means- funding is congressional
Matthews 11 (Mark Matthews, staff writer for the Orlando Sentinel, 2/14/11 “NASA budget picks fight with Congress” [[http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/2011-02-14/news/os-nasa-budget-released-20110214_1_nasa-administrator-charlie-bolden-nasa-budget-spacex]])

That's $350 million more than what Congress provided in a heavily-debated NASA policy plan signed into law in October. Obama also would cut $850 million from the new heavy-lift rocket that Congress ordered NASA to build by the end of 2016. The deviations did not go unnoticed. Florida Democratic U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, who championed last year's legislation, released a terse statement that said the Obama budget "does not follow the bipartisan NASA law Congress passed late last year" and promised that "Congress will assert its priorities in the next six months." With another round of fighting all but certain, NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden tried to explain why the administration decided to buck the policy approved by Congress. He said commercial space companies had the best chance to quickly build a rocket and capsule that could reach the station. As an example, he pointed to SpaceX, which in December became the first non-government rocket manufacturer to launch a spacecraft into Earth orbit and safely return it and is slated to begin hauling cargo to the space station in 2012. "Our intent -- as soon as we can -- is to have a viable domestic U.S. … vehicle that can take cargo and crew to low-Earth orbit," Bolden said. "Trust me, I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't think it would work," he added. Bolden did not mention a January report in which NASA said it could not build the rocket that Congress wants on the budget and timeline that it was given. Nelson and others have warned theagency that it's disregarding a congressional mandate. Once NASA retires the space shuttle later this year, the U.S. must rely on Russia to ferry astronauts to the station. Some lawmakers, like Nelson, want a government-run rocket to serve as a back-up in case commercial companies are unable to do the job. Obama has argued, however, that commercial companies should have that responsibility so that NASA engineers can concentrate instead on developing futuristic spacecraft. His 2012 budget proposal includes about $1 billion to help develop new technologies that could enable future missions to the moon or beyond. Last year, the White House and Congress feuded for months about how NASA should replace the space shuttle before compromising on a plan that would spend limited money on commercial spacecraft while pushing NASA to build the new rocket and Apollo-like crew capsule. Congress prodded NASA to use the main engines and solid-rocket boosters developed for the shuttle 30 years ago. Monday's budget proposal, essentially, picks that fight all over again. It allocates $1.8 billion for the heavy-lift rocket and about $1 billion for the capsule -- a combined decrease of about $1.2 billion from the compromise plan – to free up money for new-technology research.

<span style="font-size: 13px;">CP key to prez powers- fiats uniqueness to the link</span>
Mayer 01 (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)

Much of the time, analyses of <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">the president’s constitutional power rely on historical evidence of how individual presidents</span> viewed that power and how they <span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">put it into practice</span>**</span>**__. <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Practice matters because of the importance of precedent to the expansion of presidential powe</span>__**<span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">r</span>**</span>**,**<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">because the parameters of </span>presidential authority <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">have</span> often <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">been shaped by case-by-case</span> judicial <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">review</span>, <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">and becausepresidentshave used</span> their authority (often through <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">executive orders</span>) in order <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">to shape institutional</span> patterns and <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">processes that</span> in turn <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">enhance</span> their <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">ability to exercise</span> administrative <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">control</span>. <span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Each time a president relies on executive prerogative</span>**</span> to take some type of action, <span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">it makes it easier for a future president to take</span>**</span> the same (or similar) <span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">action</span>**</span>. “<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The boundariesbetweenthe</span>three <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">branches</span> of government <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">are</span> … <span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">strongly affected by the role of custom</span>**</span>or acquiescence. <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">When one branch engages in a certain practice and the other branches acquiesce</span><span class="Heading3Char">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the practice gains legitimacy and can fix the meaning of the Constitution</span>**</span>.”

<span style="font-size: 13px;">That solves Warming</span>
**__PCAP 08__** (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf)

__This legacy could lead the Congress, the courts and the voters to push the presidential power pendulum to the opposite extreme, handcuffing the executive branch even in areas where its powers are clear__. Yet __the__ 44th __President will need all the tools he or she commands to deal with__ the serious problems the next administration will have to tackle, including **__global climate change__**. To address this issue, the Presidential Climate Action Project commissioned the Center for Energy and Environmental Security at the University of Colorado School of Law to analyze presidential powers. The result is a 200-page analysis based on a review of 140 legal cases and numerous scholarly articles. Ii In its analysis, the Center notes that America’s past presidents have interpreted their authority differently. President William Taft believed the president could not do anything without specific permission from Congress. Theodore Roosevelt was more willing to be assertive under the “stewardship theory” – the idea that presidents have an affirmative duty to pursue the common good unless prevented by a direct constitutional or legislative prohibition. Franklin D. Roosevelt’s philosophy was the most expansive. “In the event that the Congress should fail to act, and act adequately, I shall accept the responsibility and I will act,” he told Congress in his Labor Day address of 1942. As it turned out, FDR did not need to engage in a power struggle with the legislative branch. He was a popular president in a time of crisis. He asked Congress to delegate to him the new authority he felt he needed to deal with the Depression, and Congress did so. As a result, __FDR became a strong and enabled leader with the full consent of the legislative branch at a time when strong leadership was critical. That is the precedent the next President should follow in dealing with energy, the climate and the economy. The President will have many traditional tools at his or her disposal, including executive orders, directives, proclamations, signing statements, national security directives, executive communications with Congress, the ability to call Congress into special session, the veto, the execution of treaties and the creation of executive agreements, a type of international agreement that falls short of a formal treaty and does not require Senate ratification. And,__ of course, the President has __the bully pulpit__. __In regard to climate change, the next administration’s authority includes the power to: •Regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act; •Institute a carbon cap-and-trade regime as EPA did for SO2 and NOx in 1995; •Propose and champion national goals for energy efficiency, renewable energy use, greenhouse gas reductions and other critical objectives; •Enter into executive agreements to collaborate with other nations on research and policies that will reduce energy vulnerability and greenhouse gas emissions; •Restore the federal government’s capacity for climate action by appointing highly qualified experts in climate science and policy to key government leadership positions__; •Rescind Executive Order 13422, in which President Bush established political oversight of federal science; •Restore specific greenhouse gas reduction goals for federal agencies, which were eliminated in another executive order issued by President Bush. **__But like FDR, the next President may need new powers to deal with climate change and the other urgent issues.__** As the Center for Energy and Environmental Security notes, “One of the key actions to be taken by a future president to address climate change policy would be to work with Congress for the appropriate and necessary delegations of authority that will give him or her the power to act with flexibility, without delay and with certainty within the framework of the Constitution.” As in FDR’s era, __the__ 44th __President will be most able to lead boldly on climate change when there is a clear mandate from the voters that the time has come for strong national action__. As University of Chicago Professor William Howell has noted, “Not once in the modern era have the courts overturned a president who enjoys broad-based support from Congress, interest groups and the public.” __Creating that mandate for strong but legitimate use of **presidential power is** one of the **key** responsibilities facing the presidential candidates in this election season – and one of the key challenges for the many organizations working **to build grassroots support for climate action**__.

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Tickell 8 – Environmental Researcher (Oliver, 8/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]) [Quals Added]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson [PhD in Chemistry, Award for Scientific Freedom and Responsibility from the American Association for the Advacement of Science] told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks </span>like wise counsel from the climate<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';"> science adviser to Defra. But</span> __the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd and dangerous__. <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Global</span> __warming on this scale would be a catastrophe that would mean__<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">, in the immortal words that Chief Seattle probably never spoke, "the end of living and the beginning of survival" for humankind. Or perhaps the beginning of our</span> __extinction__.<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';"> The collapse of the polar ice caps would become inevitable, bringing long-term</span> __sea level rises of__ 70-__80 metres__<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">. All the world's coastal plains would be lost, complete with ports, cities, transport and industrial infrastructure, and much of the world's most productive farmland. The world's geography would be transformed much as it was at the end of the last ice age, when sea levels rose by about 120 metres to create the Channel, the North Sea and Cardigan Bay out of dry land. Weather would become extreme and unpredictable, with more frequent and severe droughts, floods and hurricanes. The Earth's</span>__carrying capacity would be hugely reduced.__ __Billions would__ undoubtedly __die__.<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';"> Watson's call was supported by the government's former chief scientific adviser, Sir David King [Director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford], who warned that "if we get to a four-degree rise it is quite possible that </span>__we would__ begin to __see a runaway increase__<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">". This is a remarkable understatement. The climate system is already experiencing significant feedbacks, notably the summer melting of the Arctic sea ice. The more the ice melts, the more sunshine is absorbed by the sea, and the more the Arctic warms. And as the Arctic warms, the release of billions of tonnes of methane – a greenhouse gas 70 times stronger than carbon dioxide over 20 years – captured under melting permafrost is already under way. To see how far this process could go, look 55.5m years to the Palaeocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum, when a global temperature increase of 6C coincided with the release of about 5,000 gigatonnes of carbon into the atmosphere, both as CO2 and as methane from bogs and seabed sediments. Lush subtropical forests grew in polar regions, and sea levels rose to 100m higher than today. It appears that an initial warming pulse triggered other warming processes.</span> __Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the warming caused by human emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth__.


=<span style="font-size: 13px;">T-Increase</span>= 
**A. The aff must immediately increase the exploration and/or development of space- increase is immediate**
**Rogerts ‘5** (Judge Rogers, STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL., 6-24-05, PETITIONERS v. U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, RESPONDENT, NSR MANUFACTURERS ROUNDTABLE, ET AL., INTERVENORS, 2005 U.S. App.)

[**48] Statutory Interpretation. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fe428155fdfc9074f3623f0dae9d78a&docnum=14&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=0ebd338d6a7793de8561db53b915effd&focBudTerms=term%20increase&focBudSel=all#clscc16|HN16]]While the CAA defines a "modification" as any physical or operational change that "increases" emissions, it is silent on how to calculate such "increases" in emissions. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/buttonTFLink?_m=8541fbf7a7f5554ca588059b132acd17&_xfercite=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b367%20U.S.%20App.%20D.C.%203%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_butType=4&_butStat=0&_butNum=103&_butInline=1&_butinfo=42%20U.S.C.%207411&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=14&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=1f89a0e47b1996a5400e8d865d8da08a|42 U.S.C. § 7411(a)(4)]]. According to government petitioners, the lack of a statutory definition does not render the term "increases" ambiguous, but merely compels the court to give the term its "ordinary meaning." See [[http://www.lexis.com/research/buttonTFLink?_m=8541fbf7a7f5554ca588059b132acd17&_xfercite=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b367%20U.S.%20App.%20D.C.%203%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_butType=3&_butStat=2&_butNum=104&_butInline=1&_butinfo=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b541%20U.S.%20246%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=14&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=48f016ea3eabfdb898b67b348b11662c|Engine Mfrs.Ass'nv.S.Coast AirQualityMgmt.Dist., 541 U.S. 246, 124 S. Ct. 1756, 1761, 158 L. Ed. 2d 529(2004)]]; [[http://www.lexis.com/research/buttonTFLink?_m=8541fbf7a7f5554ca588059b132acd17&_xfercite=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b367%20U.S.%20App.%20D.C.%203%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_butType=3&_butStat=2&_butNum=105&_butInline=1&_butinfo=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b370%20F.3d%201%252cat%2013%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=14&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=78fdfe9d48c7b91d7659b90c0198707e|Bluewater Network, 370 F.3d at 13]]; [[http://www.lexis.com/research/buttonTFLink?_m=8541fbf7a7f5554ca588059b132acd17&_xfercite=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b367%20U.S.%20App.%20D.C.%203%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_butType=3&_butStat=2&_butNum=106&_butInline=1&_butinfo=%253ccite%20cc%253d%2522USA%2522%253e%253c%2521%255bCDATA%255b342%20U.S.%20App.%20D.C.%207%255d%255d%253e%253c%252fcite%253e&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=14&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=fb18ff0b92931ac00621d88dae997e67|Am. Fed'n of Gov't Employees v. Glickman, 342 U.S. App. D.C. 7, 215 F.3d 7, 10 [*23] (D.C. Cir. 2000)]]. Relying on two "real world" analogies, government petitioners contend that __the ordinary meaning of "increases" requires the baseline to be calculated from a period immediately preceding the change.__ They maintain, for example, that in determining whether a high-pressure weather system "increases" the local temperature, the relevant baseline is the temperature immediately preceding the arrival of the weather system, not the temperature five or ten years ago. Similarly, [**49] __in determining whether a new engine "increases" the value of a car, the relevant baseline is the value of the car immediately preceding the replacement of the engine__, not the value of the car five or ten years ago when the engine was in perfect condition.

**B. The aff creates a framework that effectually leads to exploration – that’s effects – means they allow anything tangentially related to exploration that could lead to further increases – justifies an infinite number of legal frameworks, international negotiations, and tech transfers**
=<span style="font-size: 13px;">Super Committee DA</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Super Committee will succeed – pressure and bipartisan agreements </span>
Taylor 10/10 (Andrew Taylor , the Associated Press “Deficit 'supercommittee' struggles as clock ticks” 10/10/11 http://www.federalnewsradio.com/?nid=108&sid=2584237)

To be sure, the supercommittee still has time. And panel members, while divided, earnestly want a result. A more optimistic scenario is that in coming days and weeks, members of the panel will become more flexible as the deadline nears _ and as pressure buildsfrom financial markets and credit rating agencies like Standard & Poor's, which in August downgraded U.S. debt from its AAA rating. At the same time, failure to produce a measure would trigger painful across-the-board cuts to the Pentagon budget and a big slice of domestic programs, including Medicare, food stamps and Medicaid. The idea behind this so-called sequester was to force the two sides to come together because the alternative is too painful. "I made it clear to the Republican members of the supercommittee that I expect there will be an outcome, that there has to be an outcome," House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said at a Washington forum on Thursday. "The sequester that was built behind this is ugly, and it was meant to be ugly so that no one would go there. I don't underestimate how hard it's going to be to come to an agreement by the so-called supercommittee, but we have to get to one."

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Plan costs a ton of money</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman 10 (1AC Author)</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

While __developing reconstitution__ and distributed constellation __capabilities__ may serve as important objectives for responsive space, this __is very expensive__. The reality is that responsive space solutions must also be engineered to fundamentally satisfy another more important objective—fielding systems cost-effectively. This foists on decision-makers the need to perform an opportunity cost analysis before arriving at a decision on how best to develop and field space system architectures.80 Jeff Foust posited: ‘‘If operationally responsive spacelift is so important, why are not existing vehicles capable of launching on short notices in greater demand?’’81 Some argue that if costs of the launch vehicle, spacecraft, and all spacelift operations could be brought down, such a system could become a ‘‘real driver’’ for launch demand.82 However, specific payloads that require launch on short notice have not been fully identified. As during the Space Shuttle era, the reality today is ‘‘. . . a lack of payloads has been a big part of the problem’’83 to achieving cost efficiencies. As a result, tens and hundreds of millions of dollars are being squandered annually in developing new ORS launch technologies without underlying lost opportunity costs. In a comparable way, also noted by Foust, DOD officials have talked about launching reconnaissance satellites on short notice as a way to keep an eye on global hot spots as they develop.84 The usefulness and wisdom of such a single-satellite strategy is also questionable. The orbits chosen for such spacecraft would limit the number of visits to specific ellipses on the globe, and thus, compromise their utility. __Whether the DOD will decide to develop any small satellites__ to perform reconnaissance, communications, warning, weather, or other missions __and__ then __store them for launch on short notice is, at best, uncertain__. Appropriators in the __Congress would probably view with suspicion a long-term storage strategy__ for satellites deployed only as part of some sort of reconstitution strategy. That is, they would not support storage of satellites ‘‘in the barn’’ or on-orbit unless the move was part of a viable and cost-effective sustainment strategy. This is not to say long-term storage cannot be used as part of a large constellation storage and sustainment strategy. Such a strategy could provide unique opportunities to upgrade, repair, or replace specific capabilities before it is too late do so upon launch of the spacecraft. The DOD already employs a replenishment launch campaign strategy to sustain its GPS precision navigation and timing system, and that system’s acquisition and sustainment approaches, while a bit imperfect, could be adopted at a minimum. Still, long-term storage of satellites could present a vexing dilemma—launching relatively old, outdated, and marginally useful systems if the storage continues too long. __Taking a satellite that was__ designed 20 or 30 years ago, and __built__ five to 10 __years ago, and keeping it in storage does not appear to support a winning space strategy.__
<span style="font-size: 13px;">New spending makes agreement impossible—Medicare and JSC letter prove</span>
McCarthy and Harder 10/11 (Meghan, Staff Writer, Health Policy, covers health policy throughout Washington for National Journal, worked at Congressional Quarterly, where she covered the House of Representatives and contributed to CQ Healthbeat; and Amy, Energy and Environment Correspondent, reports on energy and the environment for National Journal and moderates an expert blog on the topic as well, was a staff writer for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, “Energy and Commerce Dems Go Left on Super Committee Recommendations” Proquest)

Many of the recommendations will not trigger actual savings. Instead, the letter is a marker for liberal Democrats, fulfilling a Friday deadline for all House and Senate committees to propose ways to reach $1.2 trillion in cuts. Karen Lightfoot, a spokesperson for the Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats, said it was a draft letter that was circulated to Democrats on the committee to gather input. "I want to emphasize that any product of the Joint Select Committee must be balanced across spending and revenue accounts. Significant cuts in spending have already been enacted this year through the appropriations process and the Budget Control Act," Energy and Commerce ranking member Henry Waxman, D-Calif., writes in the letter. "As a result, the majority of the $1.2 trillion to $1.5 trillion in additional deficit reduction the Joint Select Committee is considering should be composed of revenues to balance the spending cuts already enacted." President Obama promised to veto any package that did not increase government revenues, but Republicans have not relented in refusing all tax increases. On health savings, Waxman wants the super committee to hold off on asking Medicare beneficiaries to pay more for their care, something Obama has backed in his own deficit-reduction plans. "Proposals that shift costs to states or to beneficiaries do not control health care costs; they merely shift around the burden to less-privileged groups that are less able to defend their interests," Waxman wrote. Waxman also asked the super committee to reject any changes to Medicaid that might force states to spend more moneyon the health program for the poor and disabled, including an Obama administration "blended rate" proposal that would change how federal Medicaid dollars per state are calculated. The largest cost-saver recommended by Waxman would require pharmaceutical companies to go back to paying a rebate for drugs provided to seniors who are on both Medicare and Medicaid. Currently, pharmaceutical companies only pay the rebate for Medicaid beneficiaries. Waxman says that would save $135 billion over 10 years. That proposal will be roundly opposed by Republicans. Waxman also said any Medicare savings must be used to permanently fix the perennial Medicare doctor's pay problem, known as the "doc fix," but does not give specifics on how that should be done. A permanent repeal of the sustainable-growth rate formula used to calculate doctor's pay is projected by the Congressional Budget Office to cost upwards of $300 billion, making the super committee's already difficult task of cutting $1.2 trillion even tougher. The proposal also included three relatively minor energy policies that Democrats say would create jobs without hefty price tags. The super committee is unlikely to pursue any of these policy recommendations, which all passed the House last Congress, for both cost reasons and GOP opposition to more clean-energy and environmental policies. The recommendations are nonetheless important because they show how much House Democrats have lowered their expectations about what they expect this Congress to pass compared to the 111th session, which included a close vote passing legislation that placed a price on climate-change pollution.
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Deficit commission failure kills hege and the economy and causes Korea war</span>
Michael <span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">O'Hanlon</span>, Director of Research and Senior Fellow @ Brookings in the 21st Century Defense Initiative<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">, 9/23</span> (The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, [[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx]])


__Most worrisome is the default plan__. As part of the August deficit and debt deal, __the new Fiscal “Supercommittee” is due to present a plan__ before Thanksgiving __for an up-or-down vote by Congress__ before Christmas. __If such a plan is not approved, defense and national security will automatically suffer another $500 billion__ or so __in__ ten-year __cuts, making for a grand total of about $900 billion. Such draconian cuts would jeopardize irreducible requirements in American defense policy__—**__winding down current wars responsibly, deterring Iran, hedging against a rising China, protecting global sea lanes vital for commerce, attacking terrorists and checking state sponsors of terror, and ensuring a strong all-volunteer military__** __as well as a world-class defense scientific and industrial base.__Behind these specific recommendations is a broader premise. __Not only the United States, but the world in general, benefits from the current international order in which America is the **strongest power and helps lead a broader alliance system involving most of the world’s other major powers.** World peace would not be served by U.S. disarmament or even a trend towards the emergence of multiple, comparable power centers.__ I do not mean Americans should want to dominate others. Nor should the United States do other countries’ fighting for them. But **__if the United States were to stop playing a global leadership role, competition and conflict would be the likely result__**. __In such a “multipolar” world, countries would often be less confident of their own security__, __and__ sometimes **__inclined to take matters into their own hands by engaging in arms races, building nuclear weapons, or even attacking their neighbors.__**We Americans get lots of things wrong, but we usually get around to the right policy after trying all others as Churchill famously remarked. In the end most peaceful democratic states do not fear us and want to ally with us. As such our power is stabilizing, and desirable. Perhaps __someday a world made up just of democracies will, as “democratic peace theory” would predict, be inherently stable on its own,__ without a strong leader.[1] But __the world is not there yet__.Put differently, __we have to be careful about cutting defense so much that we have to give up some current overseas missions and responsibilities.__ It would be nice if some parts of the world had become less important, some missions that were previously very important obsolescent, some allies that had previously been too weak to carry much of the burden of maintaining international stability much stronger and more inclined to use their power in productive ways. But __the world does not offer many such easy options__.One place might be Russia; despite Moscow’s prickliness on many issues, it has become more security partner than adversary of the United States, and any threats it might pose to NATO are minimal. However, our force planning already downplays the possibility of scenarios involving Russia, as it should, so there are no big further savings to reap. Some might think that Korea would offer a more promising case where American security commitments could be reduced. And __it is true that South Korea’s military is stronger than before, North Korea’s less strong. But **the last time we tried to ignore the Korean threat**,__ back in 1949 when Secretary of State Dean Acheson infamously declared it beyond America’s security perimeter of key overseas interests, **__what we got was an emboldened North Korea and a full-fledged war__**. __Today, North Korea is ruled by the same fanatical regime as before__, and while the conventional military balance on the peninsula now strongly favors the Republic of Korea and United States, **__North Korea now has nuclear weapons__**.For reasons I develop further in the pages that follow__, we would be unwise to draw back from the world or take a big gamble on simply deciding to forgo certain types of military responsibilities__. To be sure, we may choose not to carry out the next “war of choice.” But __we may not always have a choice about when and where to fight; in a world with proliferating nuclear arsenals, transnational terrorists, and other threats that can reach out and touch us even from far away, what happens in other regions can affect Americans much more directly than we might prefer__. In his retirement ceremony speech of August 31, 2011, the greatest general of his generation, David Petraeus, warned us that as a nation we do not always get to choose the wars we fight, and it was good advice. __Rather than retrench, our primary focus in cutting the defense budget should be to look for ways to be more innovative, cost-effective, and brutally efficient__ in how we prepare for most possible contingencies and maintain existing obligations. **__It is not the time for America to come home from the world.__**

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Hayes and Green 10 - *Victoria University AND **Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Koreadevelopments, and related political and economic issues, are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow...The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger...To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.</span>



=<span style="font-size: 13px;">On The Ground CP</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space for the purpose of developing a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, improvement of space situational awareness, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, hardening of military satellites, and the deployment of small satellites in Near-Space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Competition – counterplan is not in space</span>
Tomme 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Edward B. Tomme, Ph.D. Physics, Department of Physics, U.S. Air Force Academy, Air Force Space Battlelab, Air Force Space Command, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler,” Airpower Research Institute, College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education, Air University, Research Paper 2005-001, 2005, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf)

At a recent conference designed to assess the state of the art in near-space, 34 a panel of experts agreed to loosely define near-space as that region between about 65,000 ft (20 km) and 100 km, a definition with admittedly mixed units. Sixty-five thousand feet was chosen as the lower boundary in order to be above the current International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) controlled airspace limit of 60,000 ft. As will be discussed shortly, being above 65,000 ft also has significant meteorological implications. One hundred kilometers was chosen to be at the Karman line 35 loosely defining the boundary of space. Although our definition of near-space reaches up to the boundary of space, we cannot currently sustain operations throughout all of near-space. We can, however, comfortably achieve long-term presence in near-space below about 120,000 ft (36.6 km).

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Solves better than the aff – war games prove</span>
Tomme 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Edward B. Tomme, Ph.D. Physics, Department of Physics, U.S. Air Force Academy, Air Force Space Battlelab, Air Force Space Command, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler,” Airpower Research Institute, College of Aerospace Doctrine, Research and Education, Air University, Research Paper 2005-001, 2005, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf)

Near-space does indeed seem to be the “obvious, correct solution” to operationally responsive space. However, without appropriate funding it will languish and perhaps die stillborn. In times of limited funding, money for new programs must come from somewhere. It would seem that the logical source of such funding would be the programs for which near-space appears to be a much more cost-efficient, operationally effective solution. But how does one go about providing evidence that one conceptual solution is more effective than another? The military commonly uses war games for just such purposes. Head-to-head competition between alternatives, if the granularity of the war game simulation is appropriate, can provide reasonably clear answers to such questions. Preliminary results from war games have already demonstrated effectiveness of near-space platforms, but the simulations have yet to directly compare competing concepts. The time for such a competition has arrived. In conclusion, operationally responsive space really means operationally responsive space effects, and near-space can provide many of those effects moreresponsively and more persistently than space itself. The shift in mindset is of such a magnitude that it will require a substantial rewrite of current military space doctrine. It may also require a reorganization of Air Force and DoD force structure to most efficiently realize the benefits of centralized, seamless effects-based space. Near-space is the catalyst for these significant changes. The paradigm shift must occur. The time for near-space is definitely now.


=<span style="font-size: 13px;">Airforce Tradeoff DA</span>= 
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Funding for a new long-range bomber depends on current savings in the Air Force budget – new programs kill it</span>
Majumdar ‘11 (Dave Majumdar, Defense News, “U.S. Air Force Bomber Plans Hinge On Savings,” 1-17-2011, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=5469848)

If the U.S. Air Force wants its bomber and satellite plans to bear fruit, it must squeeze the money from its own budget through efficiencies and other savings, service officials and analysts said. Air Force Secretary Michael Donley said such savings will fund a host of programs, including the F-35 stealth fighter, the recently announced long-range bomber, more satellite-boosting rockets and upgrades for existing fighters. Donley said the service had already begun a broad efficiency drive by Aug. 9, when Defense Secretary Robert Gates ordered the services to save $100 billion over five years. "This work had been underway, but certainly the secretary [of defense] gave us a shot in the arm and gave us a great, I think, inducement to proceed with this work with a simple caveat: What we found within the Air Force for savings and efficiencies would stay in the Air Force," he told reporters Jan. 12. Finding those savings will be critical, said Dan Gouré, an analyst at the Lexington Institute in Arlington, Va. "It better be a viable strategy; otherwise the Air Force in particular is out of luck. The Air Force has so many demands on it for recapitalizing the force," Gouré said. NEW BOMBER The new bomber will be a key beneficiary of the savings drive, Donley said. "Efficiencies will enable continuing investment in establishing a new program of record for this long-range strike platform in the context of continuing work on this broader family of systems," he said.

<span style="font-size: 13px;">Cancellation of the bomber program triggers deterrence failures</span>
Gunzinger ‘10 (Mark A. Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at CSBA, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Transformation and Resources, former Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council staff, a key player in every major defense review since the end of the Cold War, retired Air Force Colonel and Command Pilot, M.S. National Security Strategy, National War College, Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Master of Public Administration from Central Michigan University, and B.S. Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike,” Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-14-2010, p.76, http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/2010.09.14-Sustaining-Americas-Strategic-Advantage-in-Long-Range-Strike.pdf)

Sustaining the air Leg of the nuclear triad The Air Force needs to have a plan for a land-based strategic deterrent replacement and for sustainment of the air leg of the nuclear deterrent force. —General Chilton, Commander, US Strategic Command 163 The 2010 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) determined that DoD must maintain a nuclear triad in order to sustain the nation’s strategic deterrence posture, provide extended deterrence to US allies and partners, and hedge against changes in the security environment or unforeseen technological failures of one or more triad legs. 164 Despite the NPR’s conclusion, the nuclear triad is on a glide-slope toward a “dyad” of SLBMs and ICBMs. The Defense Department’s nuclear-capable bomber force program of record consists of twenty penetrating B-2s and seventy-six standoff B-52s. 165 When the B-2 loses its ability to penetrate, the air leg of the triad will be reduced to B-52s equipped with nuclear-tipped standoff ALCMs that are approaching the end of their service life and are unsuited for attacking relocatable targets such as road-mobile ICBM launchers of the type being fielded by China, Iran and Russia. 166 There are options that will permit DoD to sustain a nuclear-capable bomber force and hedge against uncertainty. First, DoD should develop a new nuclearcapable cruise missile capable of surviving advanced air defenses. Unlike the ALCM, the new missile should be able to carry conventional as well as nuclear warheads and to be launched from a variety of Air Force and Navy aircraft. A smaller, more versatile cruise missile with a range of 500–600 nm that can be carried by fighter-sized aircraft as well as bombers would permit DoD to take advantage of the economies of scale via a larger procurement and increase the overall size of the standoff missile magazine. Second, the Defense Department should design a new bomber to preserve this option for delivering nuclear weapons. Under New START, the Air Force has the latitude to incorporate basic nuclear weapons requirements into a new bomber design without fully equipping, testing, certifying, and declaring it as nuclearcapable.

<span style="font-size: 13px;">This creates three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation</span>
Williams ‘10 (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010, http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf)

The Case for Continuity The case for the continuity of current U.S. nuclear policies and structure involves consideration of their benefits in terms of security, international prestige, domestic politics, and technology. 8 From a security perspective, nuclear weapons ensure security because the potential usage of nuclear weapons during a conflict raises the cost of war to an unacceptable level. 9 Scott Sagan notes that: Nuclear declaratory policy is meant to enhance deterrence of potential adversaries by providing a signal of the intentions, options and proclivities of the U.S. government in different crisis and war-time scenarios. 10 I would argue, however, that an ambiguous U.S. first use policy of nuclear weapons creates valuable uncertainty on the part of potential adversaries. This uncertainty, coupled with U.S. nuclear and conventional superiority, makes overt state aggression against the U.S. or its’ allies a very uncertain and potentially disastrous proposition, thus not likely to happen. After all, no state has started a war with the U.S. since it acquired nuclear weapons.No part of the U.S. nuclear triad can be eliminated without creating an adverse impact on deterrence. This is the case because each element of the triad fills a unique role that makes U.S. nuclear forces lethal, survivable, and visible. Submarines offer the greatest degree of survivability, but the lowest degree of accuracy and become vulnerable upon surfacing. Bombers are the most accurate and only recallable option, but they are vulnerable to defensive counter-air missions and groundbased anti-aircraft fire. ICBMs are the most reliable means of delivery and the only sovereignlaunched option, yet are all located at known, stationary sites that are easily targeted by enemy ICBM forces, special operations teams, or terrorist surrogates. One may not consider the visibility of nuclear forces to be desirable, but the visibility of bombers and ICBMs allows for clear signaling to potential adversaries about U.S. intentions during a crisis. Take the Cuban Missile Crisis for example: President Kennedy used naval and air forces in order to signal his intent toward Premier Khrushchev. This signaling ensured there were no doubts about U.S. willingness to go to war to prevent Soviet missiles from being placed in Cuba. Future conflicts may require signaling of a similar nature to prevent deadly exchanges. For example, if Kim Jong Il were notified that the U.S. was uploading nuclear-armed bombers in response to North Korean deployments of nuclear-armed missiles, he might reconsider his actions. From the perspective of international prestige, other powers are retaining and in some cases enhancing their nuclear capability, yet as Younger points out, the U.S. is not modernizing any aspect of its inventory. 11 Instead, the U.S. is relying on mathematical projections and estimations regarding the reliability of its systems and deploying them well beyond what most states would consider a reasonable service-life. Further reductionsin strategic nuclear forces could be seen as evidence of retrenchment on the part of the U.S. by ambitious rising or reemerging powers, thus increasing the risk of war. The U.S. could be characterized as a declining power by rising powers who are seeking either initial or enhanced nuclear technology. Rising powers, after all, will work to realign the international balance of power in their favor: one way of doing so is through countering U.S. military capabilities. If the U.S. were to reduce its capability by eliminating portions of the triad, then it would essentially be making it easier for other powers to challenge the current U.S. position. Further, without the potential threat of a nuclear first strike, U.S. allies might feel less secure about U.S. security commitments, especially in light of current troop commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such insecurity has the potential to lead these allies to pursue nuclear capabilities of their own, as well as embolden hostile states to gamble on a lack of U.S. retaliation for WMD usage or conventional aggression. For example, when the U.S. considered reducing troop levels in South Korea, the government in Seoul signaled a potential shift in policy toward a nuclear capability to protect itself from possible North Korean aggression. 12 This threat resulted in very quick U.S. reassurances about troop levels and its commitment to defending South Korea.
=<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC Deterrence Adv</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">1-- No US-China war – degrading US capabilities improved relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Baohui Zhang – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong (March/April 2011, "The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship," JSTOR, RG)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">As Kevin Narizny points out in his study of grand strategy, political </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">turnover in the executive office often leads to dramatic shifts in state behavior</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. In particular, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">changes in control of government</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> from one party to another can </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">lead states to redefine their strategic goals and the means of promoting them</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. 40 </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The </span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">profound and </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">ongoing strategic adjustment by</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Obama</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">administration </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">has indeed borne out this argument. The much-maligned grand strategy of primacy and unilateralism has given way to a new stance that emphasizes strategic restraint and multilateral diplomacy. Smart power</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, rather than military preponderance</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, is now seen by many as the best way to pursue U.S. interests in the world. **The current strategic adjustment by the U.S. has significantly lowered China’s** traditional **concern about the threat posed by a hegemonic America**</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China’s foreign policy analysts</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> have reached a consensus that the U.S. has suffered a significant relative decline and is in the process of strategic retreat</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. 41 As a result, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the old hegemonic system is believed to have disintegrated. This new **perception** of the U.S. position in the world has also led the **PLA to reassess** **the likelihood of war between the two countries**</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Some </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Chinese military strategists</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> now believe that the relative decline of the U.S. has critically affected the ability and will of the American military to engage in major foreign wars</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Lei Sihai, a strategist with a PLA background, claims that “</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the military capability of the U.S. has declined significantly and it is no longer capable of launching major wars.”</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> 42 Major General Jin Yinan, a strategist at the PLA National Defense University, has suggested that </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the rise of China and the relative decline of the U.S. have made a war scenario between them very unlikely.</span>__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> 43 Thus, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the strategic landscape between China and the U.S</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">., as seen by Chinese experts from both civilian and military backgrounds, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">has shifted because of changes in American grand strategy and military strategy. This change in perception has relaxed Chinese concerns about national security</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. It marks a significant turnaround from China’s view of the American threat from the mid-1990s to the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, when the American pursuit of hegemony was seen as the greatest threat in China’s strategic environment. After U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced major changes in the Pentagon’s 2010 budget, including cancelling the procurement of F-22 fighters and key missile defense programs, one PLA strategist characterized these adjustments as “a comprehensive rethinking about U.S. geopolitical strategies.” As the analysis emphasizes, “</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Gates’s and Obama’s thinking no longer shows aggressiveness</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Instead, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">they seek a new security framework through accommodation</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. These significant adjustments in U.S. military strategies, especially the decisions to cut missile defense and stop procurement of F-22 fighters, which are directed mainly against China and Russia, should be welcomed. They are conducive for relaxing relations among great powers and reducing their strategic misunderstanding.” 44 Moreover, Chinese experts have taken keen notice of the new space policy of the Obama administration, which opposes deployment of weapons in space and is willing to explore international agreements on the issue. As observed by a recent PLA analysis, “</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Obama’s willingness to reach an international treaty banning space-based weapons and</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> to establish a global cooperative mechanism will have positive impacts on the world’s efforts for space arms control and prevention of an arms race.” 45</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">2 Even if China strikes it won’t escalate – assumes miscalculation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Weston '9 – Major, attending Joint Military Attaché School en route to serve as the assistant air attaché to the Republic of the Philippines (Scott A, Spring 2009, "Examining Space Warfare: Scenarios, Risks, and US Policy Implications," Proquest, RG)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">In the first scenario, the U</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">S</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">deploys to defend Taiwan against China</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">'s attempt to subdue the island forcibly. As in the RAND study, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China would</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> likely refrain from attacking US space assets to preserve its own space</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> ISR </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">capability</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">which it needs to monitor the US buildup</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The U</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">S</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">would also delay full counterspace operations</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> until fully deployed in order </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">to prepare for retaliation</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> with assets in place instead of in transit, where space disruption would cause much more confusion. With the United States almost fully deployed, China would do well to utilize any counterspace weapons it possesses before the United States targets them</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Given its limited ASAT capability, China would likely target</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> US </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">military communication and reconnaissance satellites</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">avoid</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">ing permanent damage to dual-use commercial satellites to preserve its global reputation</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">and protect its own third-party commercial space contracts. The Chinese would use kinetic attacks and any rapidly deployed ASAT lasers against low-altitude satellites, such as those performing reconnaissance, while likely attacking high-altitude communication satellites by jamming or feeding them malicious code. In addition to hitting space assets, China would probably deploy high-powered GPS and other signal jamming throughout the theater to degrade US bombing accuracy and complicate navigation. US doctrine, which places priority on air and space superiority, suggests that the first US attack would target China's ground-based counterspace capability, using the full range of joint-attack forces and munitions. This first wave of ground attacks would also combine with counterspace offensive operations of a nondestructive nature, as highlighted in the Schriever war games, to temporarily blind Chinese ISR satellites and jam communication and signal- collection satellites. A few political caveats attach to this doctrine-directed target list, however. China's launch facilities are far inland, thus raising the possibility that it would consider strikes in these areas a significant escalation, just as the United States would consider Chinese attacks on US launch facilities at Cape Canaveral, Florida, and Vandenberg AFB, California, provocative. The United States would also have to avoid targeting ground-based missile-launch-detection capabilities, which China might interpret as preparation for a nuclear first strike. As mentioned in the RAND war-game scenario, China would be far less affected than the United States by the loss of most space assets at this point because its air-breathing ISR assets could cover the immediate theater and short-range ground communications that do not rely upon satellites.37 Conversely, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">once US forces have deployed, they would rely heavily upon space assets</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. In a limited military engagement such as this, it is unlikely that the United States would attempt to facilitate ISR flights by establishing air superiority over all of China. US forces would thus remain highly reliant upon satellites for ISR over mainland China and for communication with the homeland and between deployed units. The RAND study also pointed out that </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">China would</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> likely contract commercial thirdparty space assets to provide needed capabilities, complicating repercussions from US attacks</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. All told, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">counterspace operations would probably prove as discriminate as possible to prevent strategic escalation. Both sides would hesitate to utilize kinetic-kill ASATs</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> against anything but very low-altitude satellites </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">for fear of incurring international condemnation and increasing debris hazards</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> for their own resources.38 In all likelihood, the United States would not use its kinetic ASAT capability, preferring to utilize its limited number of seabased Standard Missile 3s for ABM defense of forward-deployed forces. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Thus, the number of satellites destroyed or permanently disabled would be very low</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. As limited as </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">this scenario</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> appears, it </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">bears out realistic actions taken under current policy and doctrine</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">given the resources available to each side</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. In this case, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">it is difficult to see how</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">even</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> one of </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">our most capable space adversaries would</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">have</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> either </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the capability or</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">motivation to attempt a surprise attack on US space assets that would rise to </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the level of a space Pearl Harbor.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> It is also difficult to understand how the cost of deploying hundreds or even thousands of US weapon satellites to ensure space dominance would greatly affect the outcome of this scenario. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Even a deployed spacebased missile-defense shield</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> probably would not encourage the U</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">S</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">to intentionally escalate a limited regional conflict with another nuclear power</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> to a full nuclear exchange if there were any risk of nuclear warheads reaching US soil</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">3-- Relations resilient – disputes will not spillover or escalate to war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Kenneth Lieberthal, Michigan University Professor, January 07 [China’s March on the 21st Century, http://www.aspeninstitute.org/atf/cf/%7BDEB6F227-659B-4EC8-8F84-8DF23CA704F5%7D/CMTCFINAL052307.PDF]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Second, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the current U.S.-China relationship is not fragile</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">. Indeed</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, it has become extraordinarily wide ranging, complex, and deeply embedded in the political and economic systems ofboth societies</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">. Structurally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the financial</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">, economic, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">and trade relationship</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> is the most well-developed leg ofour current bilateral engagement. It </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">has produced a situation ofsuch deep interdependence that only a very traumatic crisis could significantly change this</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> in the short run. However, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">such disruption would palpably affect the standards of living in both countries</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">. Despite well-known frictions, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">therefore, neither side is prepared to damage itselfby taking steps to fundamentally disentangle this economic interdependence</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">. China has shown, moreover, that </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">economic cooperation</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> with the United States </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">is sufficiently important to warrant serious concessions </span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">when necessary to keep this part ofour relationship in reasonably good working order. The existing U.S.-China engagement extends far beyond classic foreign policy and economic spheres. Indeed, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">almost every major agency in the U.S.government has</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> serious programs and fre- quent contacts with its Chinese counterpart. This includes</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> such bodies as the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Department of Education, Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Energy, the Center for Disease Control, the Environmental Protection Agency,</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> and so forth. In short</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, the overall U.S.-China relationship is mature: **even very significant problems in any one issue area will not disrupt the entire relationship****,** and a very solid base already exists for future cooperative efforts</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">. Considerable interests in each country have gelled around the specific forms ofengagement that the two countries have developed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">4-- China has safeguards to prevent miscalculation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">Xinhua Genral News 09(“China’s National Defense in 2008” Following the principle of…http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?start=8&sort=RELEVANCE&format=GNBFI&risb=21_T7215983767</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Following the principle of building a lean and effective force and going with the tide of the development of military science and technology, the Second Artillery Force strives to raise the informationization level of its weaponry and equipment, ensure their safety and reliability, and enhance its capabilities in protection, rapid reaction, penetration, damage and precision strike</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. After several decades of development, it has created a weaponry and equipment system with both nuclear and conventional missiles, both solid-fueled and liquid-fueled missiles, different launching ranges and different types of warheads. The Second Artillery Force is endeavoring to form a complete system for war preparations, optimize its combat force structure, and build a missile operational system suited to informationized warfare</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Its nuclear and conventional missile forces are kept at an appropriate level of readiness.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> The Second Artillery Force is making steady head-way in the construction of its battlefield system, and makes extensive use of modern mechanical equipment and construction methods. Each completed project is up to standard. The Second Artillery Force is also dedicated to logistical reforms and innovations. It has created integrated data bases for field support and informationized management platforms for logistic materials, and improved support systems for the survival of combatants in operational positions. As a result, its integrated logistical support capabilities in case of actual combat have been markedly enhanced. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">To ensure the</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> absolute safety of nuclear weapons, the Second Artillery Force strictly implements rules and regulations for nuclear safety control and accreditation of personnel dealing with nuclear weapons, has adopted reliable technical means and methods, strengthens the safe management of nuclear weapons in the process of storage, transportation and training, improves mechanisms and methods for emergency response to nuclear accidents, and has put in place special safety measures to avoid unauthorized and accidental launches.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">5 Can’t solve existing space – early warning satellites already exist so China would just shoot those down while we’re doing the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">6-- Satellite hardening is useless – enemies target ground based facilities</span>
Charles V Pena, a senior defense policy analyst, Cato Institute, Washington, D. C. Jul 2002. USA Today Vol. 131, Iss. 2686; pg. 14, 5 pgs <http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?did=149310201&Fmt=7&clientId=4347&RQT=309&VName=PQD>//DoeS
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The more immediate threat is not against satellites</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> in space, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">but</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> to the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">land</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">-based facilities</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> (launch and ground-control) </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">associated with space systems</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Indeed, the Space Commission and others recognize that </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">it will be</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> significantly easier for a hostile adversary to threaten ground elements.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Those elements could be </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">susceptible to</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> a variety of actions, including </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">direct military assault </span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">(e.g., with aircraft missiles), </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">terrorist attacks, sabotage,and jamming</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Since this is a more-likely and less expensive way to disable satellite capability, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">the primary focus should not be on protecting satellites in space, but on increasing security and defenses for satellite ground stations and mitigating jamming</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> by the use of encryption, antijamming equipment, and "frequency hopping," which avoids interference from jamming on a particular frequency by switching to a new one after transmitting or receiving a packet of data. When this method is employed, the signal can be effectively jammed only if the jammer knows the frequencies being used, the time during which they are being utilized, and the sequence of use-not easy information to come by. The signal is more resistant to jamming the faster the hops between frequencies and the shorter the information packets. </span>
**7. Power is inevitable—training exercises ensure capabilities even if satellites are attacked**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Lynn**, 20**11** – Deputy Secretary of State [William J. Lynn, III A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment The Washington Quarterly SUMMER http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf]</span>
Third, we need to make our space systems more resilient, and our combat power less reliant on their full functioning. This will help deny adversaries the benefit from an attack in space. Just as in the cyber domain, denying the benefit of attack in space can join retaliatory deterrence as a disincentive to adversaries. __To maintain our combat power, we are learning how to operate in a degraded information environment. Training exercises where we disrupt space-based capabilities help our forces become proficient at operating with interference__. To improve resiliency, __we are developing technology to help us mitigate the loss or degradation of on-orbit systems.__ For instance, __we now have ground, air, and naval-based platforms which can increasingly augment or replace space assets. The U.S. military is one of the few militaries today with the capability to operate in all domains on a global basis, and this ability provides a strategic advantage when space capabilities come under threat.__ Responsive space capabilities which rapidly launch replacements can also play an important role in reconstituting functionality either during or after an attack. And broader partnerships with commercial firms which enable national security payloads to ride on commercial satellites will further improve our resiliency. Hosting military payloads on commercial spacecraft, as we are already doing with a missile warning sensor, is not only cost-effective, it also enables a more diverse, robust, and distributed set of space systems. Finally, the United States views free access to space as a vital national interest. Consistent with our inherent right of self-defense, we will respond accordingly to attacks on it, at a time and place of our choosing and not necessarily in space. Ultimately, deterrence must impact the decision-making of particular countries and leaders in specific scenarios. __A multilayered approach to deterrence offers the greatest likelihood of encouraging restraint, and thereby protecting our vital space capabilities from attack.__
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">8-- Still can’t prevent ASATs – impossible to detect in time</span>
Sexton 09 -<span style="color: black;">Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group [12 February 2009, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA539893&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], DEFENDING AMERICA’S INTERESTS IN SPACE, AIR WAR COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY, Access July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Given the disparity between the two theories, the choice to begin development of space weapons, as defined in chapter one, is black or white. The gray area in the decision surrounds the nature of any systems the United States opts to build. The United States must deliberately choose whether to seek capabilities for the express purpose of countering attacks on space-borne assets. Both the high ground and space sanctuary perspectives agree on the vital interests inherent in US space assets. In the context of this paper, an affirmative decision for developing space weapons can be made if even a single significant case exists where passive defenses alone cannot assure successful attainment of the space defense strategy objective. The previous discussion regarding strategy concepts versus actors analysis will provide the framework for cases to consider for this critical choice. Posing the most dangerous and least stable of the actor types, the non-peer spacefaring nation will be the hypothesis case in this dialectic since this actor is deemed to be the most likely actor to employ space weapons if it possesses them. The potential exists for a rogue nation either to detonate an EMP weapon in space, disabling most satellites, or to destroy a critical US intelligence collection satellite in low earth orbit though a direct ascent ASAT weapon. One should first determine if it’s possible to counter the effects of both threats strictly with passive defensive capabilities. In the case of an EMP detonation in space, all satellites theoretically could be hardened to an extreme extent to prevent damage induced by the various radiation types released, the dose levels and the dose rates. As for direct ascent ASAT weapons, theoretically these can be countered by improved space situational awareness (SSA) for ample warning time coupled with increased on-board fuel for satellite maneuvers to avoid the impending attack. As a singular event, passive defenses may seem to be a reasonable cost to bear. In reality, these passive defenses alone cannot insure the ability to survive and operate after such attacks</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. Intelligence, even with perfect SSA, is unlikely to discern the exact target for a direct ascent ASAT attack thus requiring all possible targets to maneuver for safety. Furthermore, the penalties for hardening all satellites and increasing onboard fuel are prohibitive and would come at the expense of payload capabilities and launch costs. Therefore, other defensive approaches short of space weapons should be considered. An alternative approach to defeating the effect of an adversary’s attack on US space assets is a rapid reconstitution capability. Contemporary space systems are typically 10-15 year acquisition efforts with multi-billion dollar price tags. In providing imaging, signals intelligence, communications, navigation, weather, and missile warning on a global basis, each constellation requires numerous satellites to achieve the degree of persistence required for economic activities and worldwide military operations. Rarely do commercial enterprises and government entities launch and store excess capacity on orbit. Within the US Government, building spare satellites for any constellation has become a cost prohibitive luxury given the reality of excessive program overruns and program delays.22 DoD has long yearned for improved space access through reduced costs and launch timelines.</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">9 Hardening fails – China will just overwhelm defenses</span>
**Walsh** **2007 - Georgetown University Law Center** [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis]

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">"Hardening" Satellites and Building Satellites with Greater Defensive Capabilities Will Give Only Moderate Protection Against ASAT Weapons </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The United States could research and develop technologies that would "harden" satellites to the point where they could evade or survive attacks. </span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">n98 This approach requires a variety of different mechanisms to be incorporated into new satellite designs. First, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">satellites could be equipped with sensors to detect incoming ballistic weapons and rockets so they can maneuver out of the way of a kinetic kill vehicle.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> n99 While this option would likely require too much fuel to be practical for bigger satellites, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">increased maneuverability could work against a rudimentary ballistic missile system like the current Chinese design</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. n100 Better ASAT guidance and tracking systems, however, could neutralize satellite maneuvering efforts by allowing an ASAT weapon to change course as it approaches the targeted satellite. [*777] Alternatively, a </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">backup system of replacement of satellites could help the United States reestablish its network</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> in the case of a first strike. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The capability to relaunch satellites is a unique goal because it is more of a logistical problem of rapidly launching satellites and less of a technological problem of hardening satellites against potentially awesome destructive power</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. n101 Because it is virtually "impossible to harden satellites against direct assaults by kinetic energy ASATs" n102 like the one China tested, a replacement program may be the only way to guarantee continued satellite operations. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">This system would also provide additional benefits since it would allow the United States to deploy replacements when the original satellites fail because of normal maintenance failure.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Nevertheless</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">, all of these hardening approaches are only marginal defenses against a determined ASAT attack. A more complex ASAT, with better guidance and greater maneuverability, could defeat these systems and once again expose American satellites</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. But </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">a non-diplomatic approach </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">to the ASAT threat fails on a more fundamental level: it ushers in a space arms race</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">n103 If the United States deploys counter-ASAT weapons, then China will develop better ASATs, and the United States will in turn pursue better countermeasures.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> n104 According to H. Baker Spring of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy institute, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'arial narrow','sans-serif';">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">a potential space arms race would most likely run to "billions or tens of billions of dollars a year, pretty much year in and year out." n105 The result of this expensive endeavor, even if the United States is successful, would ultimately be the **status quo of American satellite safety**.</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> A better policy would be to pursue the goal of American satellite safety via a less expensive and less risky path.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 13px;">1NC Coercive Diplomacy Adv</span>= 
**1. Commercial space is increasing now – multiple indicators**
**FAA '11** -- Federal Aviation Industry, Office of Commercial Space Transportation (1/11, "2011 U.S. Commercial Space Transportation Developments and Concepts: Vehicles, Technologies, and Spaceports," http://www.faa.gov/about/office_org/headquarters_offices/ast/media/2011%20DevCon%20Report.pdf, RG)

On June 28, 2010, the __U__nited __S__tates released a __new N__ational __S__pace __P__olicy that __commits the U__nited __S__tates __to a robust and competitive industrial base__. The policy states that “the U.S. Government will use commercial space products and services in fulfilling government needs... [and will] seek partnerships with the private sector to enable commercial spaceflight capabilities for the transportation of crew and cargo to and from the International Space Station (ISS).” With the impetus of the new policy, __2010 was an **exceptional year** for U.S. **commercial space transportation development**__. Established providers of __commercial launch services continued to deliver satellites to orbit__, while __entrepreneurial ventures made significant strides in developing new expendable and reusable launch vehicles__. __This year__ also __saw **new developments in commercial space transportation technologies**, including advancements in rocket propulsion, emergency detection__ for crew transportation, __and life support__ systems. In 2010, __spaceports__ across the U.S. __continued infrastructure improvements__, such as the new runway for Virgin Galactic’s suborbital flights at New Mexico’s Spaceport America. Firms based around personal spaceflight came closer to meeting their goal of beginning operations in 2011. Scaled Composites successfully performed captive carry and glide flights of SpaceShipTwo. __Companies__, such as Paragon Space Development Corporation, Aerojet, Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, and Sierra Nevada Corporation, __made significant strides in innovative technologies to support new vehicles__. Also related to personal space flight, in October, the President signed into law the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act for fiscal year 2011 through 2013. This act called for NASA to foster development of commercial crew and cargo for low Earth orbit. The Federal Aviation Administration’s Office of Commercial Space Transportation (__FAA__/AST) took a number of historical actions in 2010. It __established the Air Transportation Center of Excellence for Commercial Space Transportation to encourage a partnership among__ academia, __industry, and government to address challenges for commercial space transportation__. In April, the Pennsylvania-based National AeroSpace Training and Research (NASTAR) Center received the first FAA/AST safety approval for a commercial Spaceflight Training System. In October, FAA/AST issued $500,000 in grants to four spaceports, under its new Space Transportation Infrastructure Matching Grant Program. FAA/AST also issued its first reentry license to Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) for its Dragon spacecraft in November.

**2. Plan can’t solve – NASA will crowd out investment**
Decian McCallagh, CNET News Staff Writer, 3 December 2007 (Do we need NASA? [[http://news.cnet.com/Do-we-need-NASA/2009-11397_3-6211308.html]])
__The birth of modern aviation probably lies in__ Charles __Lindbergh's__ 1927 flight across the Atlantic, which won him a $25,000 __prize__ and a ticker-tape parade down New York's Fifth Avenue.By showing the world to be just a little smaller than before, Lindbergh fathered the 20th century's transportation revolution. __The airship named after__ German entrepreneur Ferdinand von __Zeppelin took its maiden__ __flight__ the next year, __and__ by the early 1930s both __Boeing and Douglas were selling passenger planes__ to fledgling airlines including TWA, United and American. Not long afterward, the famous Douglas DC-3 made transcontinental flights practical.__Compare the rapid progress in aviation with America's experience in space travel__. Fifty years after Sputnik 1's launch in October 1957, __mankind has set foot on precisely one other world__ (a moon, at that), __the space shuttle has at best a 1-in-50 chance of disaster__ upon each launch, __and a completed space station is still a few years out__. Since the last moon landing 35 years ago, in fact, __mankind has not ventured beyond low Earth orbit again__.__The difference?__ Critics say __it's the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Aviation's youth and adolescence were marked by entrepreneurs and frenetic commercial activity__: Lindbergh's trans-Atlantic prize money was put up by a New York hotel owner, and revenue from the airlines funded the development of the famous DC-3. __The federal government aided aviation by paying private pilots__ to deliver air mail.__Space__, by contrast, until recently __has remained the domain of NASA__. Burt Rutan, the aerospace engineer famous for building a suborbital rocket plane that won the Ansari X Prize, believes **__NASA is crowding out private efforts.__** "Taxpayer-funded __NASA should only fund research and not development,__" Rutan said during a recent panel discussion at the California Institute of Technology. "__When you spend hundreds of billions of dollars to build a manned spacecraft, you're...dumbing down a generation of new, young engineers__ (by __saying), 'No, you can't take new approaches, you have to use this old technology.'"__Rutan and his fellow pilots, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs have undertaken a formidable task: To demonstrate to the public that space travel need not be synonymous with government programs. In fact, many of them say NASA has become more of a hindrance than a help. From moon landings to freight haulingSoon after its creation in the 1950s, NASA captured the hearts of America's youth with vistas of outer space and other worlds, illustrated by unforgettable moments like Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong setting foot on the moon.But by the late 1990s, the agency seemed to have become more moribund than innovative. In 1999 alone, NASA lost the Mars Climate Orbiter (because of English-Metric unit conversion problems) and Mars Polar Lander (likely because of a programming error). Then, after spending $1.6 billion on space plane research, NASA abruptly abandoned the project.Late that year, NASA's problem-ridden Hubble Space Telescope was offline for more than a month. And __NASA shuttle launches seemed to have devolved into repair missions and transportation for science experiments. Its mission__, in other words, __seemed to be shifting__ from historic accomplishments to the more matter-of-fact business of freight hauling.The shuttle had become so problematic that Time Magazine published an article titled: "The Space Shuttle Must Be Stopped." It dispassionately listed the shuttle's failings: It was intended to be an example of American technological prowess; instead it is fragile and antiquated (until recently the flight deck computers used 1978-vintage 8086 microprocessors). It was supposed to be flown every week; instead it flies a few times a year. It was supposed to cost $5 million a flight; instead it costs a staggering $1.3 billion a flight.__NASA leadership__ also __discouraged private space travel__. Then-administrator Dan Goldin publicly disparaged millionaire Dennis Tito's choice to pay a reported $20 million to fly to the space station on a Russian spacecraft, calling the former NASA scientist "un-American" for doing so. A few years earlier, though, NASA had flown a lawyer and insurance executive named Jake Garn and Bill Nelson--who had become influential members of the U.S. Congress--on space shuttle missions. Also during Goldin's tenure, __NASA__ also __took steps to block entrepreneurs at__ Russia's __MirCorp__ from being able to use Russian supply rockets or gain access to a key tether that could have helped to keep Mir aloft.But the Commercial Space Act of 1998 eliminated the long-standing prohibition on bringing vehicles and people back and forth from space and opened the door to what would become the commercial space industry of today. (Six ye__ars later, the federal government formally gave approval for__ Rutan's __SpaceShipOne to launch a suborbital flight in pursuit of the X Prize__.)

**3. Launch costs aren't the only deterrent – private sector still won't explore**
**Reynolds ’10** -- Tarleton State University (Jackie, 4/27/10, "RENEWING THE DREAM: HOW FREE MARKET PRINCIPLES CAN ENABLE COMMERCIAL SPACE DEVELOPMENT," http://files.jackiedewaynereynolds.info/0410_Renewing.the.Dream.pdf, RG)

The __cost of getting to space is__ largely __regarded as the **single greatest contributing factor** to the high cost of commercial space operations.__ It is this __high up-front cost__ that many believe __makes commercial space operations unlikely candidates for venture capital__. __High start-up costs are__ __often associated with lengthy returns on investment__. In other words, __the more it costs to start a venture the longer it takes to show a profit and provide the return investors require.__ But __high cost__ and long investment return times __have never been a significant enough impediment to capitalistic exploitation of undeveloped mar-kets.__

**4-- They can’t solve and aren’t k2 the economy**
**Reynolds ’10** -- Tarleton State University (Jackie, 4/27/10, "RENEWING THE DREAM: HOW FREE MARKET PRINCIPLES CAN ENABLE COMMERCIAL SPACE DEVELOPMENT," http://files.jackiedewaynereynolds.info/0410_Renewing.the.Dream.pdf, RG)

Today, as the national budget deficit swells under the weight of entitlement pro-grams, vestiges of big government remain. Social security, Medicare and Medicaid, and defense spending account for 75 percent of all national spending. So while the debate over the role and size of government rages on, it is clear that **__the era of big government-funded projects is over__**. Between 1972 and 1995, NASA‘s budget increased by an annual average rate of 0.4 percent (OMB 2010). Since President Clinton‘s declaration, NASA‘s budget has decreased by an annual average rate of 0.2 percent. Contrast this with the ex-plosive growth in NASA‘s budget between 1962 and 1972 of 6.8 percent. __Commercial space development__ is neither easy nor cheap, but it __can no longer be funded by big government__. Back when the nation‘s wealth was concentrated in a handful of American aristocrats, it made sense for the government to pick up the slack where the private sector simply wouldn‘t or couldn‘t fund projects themselves. While the govern-ment maintains its fundamental role in funding basic research and codifying appropiate policy and legal regimes to support economic commerce, the fact of the matter is __it is no longer necessary for the government to fund large space development projects__. In the last hundred years or more, __the American economy has diversified and given rise to a huge investment class.__ Globalization has helped replicate that investment class in countries all over the world. __Private investment capital flows__ more __freely__ now than at any other time in our history.
== == 

=== === 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]