[[toc]]
=Team Information= 

=Affirmative= 
==Debate Space 1AC== 
**This year’s high school policy debate resolution is The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. This topic provides us with many research incentives for teams in the area of policy making and the science of space, but it ignores the larger pedagogical implications that we find in debate as an activity. To bring a revolution to the resolution, we believe that we the debaters must substantially increase our exploration and development of our consciousness in the debate space and epistemologically grow beyond the barriers that police our voice; the mesosphere. We advocate that the space that the resolution refers to is the wrong one; rather we advocate that debate is a space where pedagogy formulates our understanding of the world in relation to our social locations as members of an oppressed community.**

**Whiteness has invaded the debate space and turned it into a dehumanizing, assimilating world that continues to shape future generations**
**Ricky Lee Allen 2004** [professor at the University of New Mexico’s College of Education,<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">“Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>

**WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY AS INTELLECTUALS TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**DR. CRENSHAW** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. **1997**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

**The CURRENT silence we “enjoy” in debate about race, gender, and other issues allows whiteness to live. We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE**
<span class="cite">**DR. CRENSHAW** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. **1997**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

**Sexism, colonialism, racism, capitalism, imperialism, and genocide all are sustained under the umbrella of Whiteness**
**DR. CRENSHAW** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. **1997**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

**White racialized identity is the condition of possibility for US colonialism. The cultural paranoia Whiteness induces fuels our violent interventionary actions**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Martinot 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” Social Justice Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]</span>

**Play “Spaceship” – Kanye West**

“I remember havin' to take the dollar cab
Comin' home real late at night
Standin' on my feet all damn day
Tryin' to make this thing right
And havin' one of my co-workers say "Yo you look just like
This kid I seen in the old Busta Rhymes video the other night"
Well easy come, easy go
How that sayin' goes
No more broad service, cars, and them TV shows
I all had that snatched from me
And all the faculties all turn their back on me
And didn't wanna hear a rap from me
So naturally actually had to face things factually
Had to be a catastrophe with the fridgest starin' back at me
Cuz nothing's there, nothing's fair
I don't wanna ever go back there
So I won't be takin' no days off 'til my spaceship takes off
I've been workin' this graveshift and I ain't made shit
I wish I could buy me a spaceship and fly past the sky”

**The current system and State will gladly ignore problems such as poverty, racism, sexism, classism, and many others. The problem inherent in our educational system must be solved.**

**Thus the advocacy: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**We advocate that the plan is a metaphor to the individuals of the debate community to move beyond their mesosphere, grow epistemologically beyond the traditional, policed system of education in the debate space. We must break through the mesosphere and fly past the sky to a new space, a new realm of knowledge production through a process of Conscientization so we can disrupt whiteness and create real social change.**


**Our framework for this debate round is who best engages in a consistent methodology for liberation of the oppressed through a three tier methodology of knowledge production to move beyond the mesosphere and reach outer space, the realm of critical consciousness**
**<span class="cite">Reid Brinkley ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]</span>

**Performative pedagogy locates cultural power in the body and is a key methodology in breaking down white supremacy**
**Warren and Fassett ‘4**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[The Johns Hopkins University Press. All rights reserved Theatre Topics 14.2 (2004) 411-430</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|John T. Warren]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> is an assistant professor in the School of Communication Studies at Bowling Green State University, where he teaches courses in performance, culture, identity, and power. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|Deanna L. Fassett]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication Studies at San José State University, where she teaches courses in instructional communication and critical, feminist, and performative pedagogies.]</span>


**We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION**
**DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64</span>


**THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Conscientization allows us to NAME the world, a meaningful education that helps RECOGNIZE and UNDERSTAND the impact that societal conditions and oppression have on our lives, a constant clarification of what remains hidden within us that sees the world dynamically in the making, inspiring us to work against oppression and become active in efforts to TRANSFORM the world.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> **07** professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; //REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67</span>


**Breaking through White Eurocentric thought in education through empowering the colored student voice is critical**
<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 13.3333px;">Ricky Lee </span><span class="cite">Allen 2004</span><span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 13.3333px;"> [professor at the University of New Mexico’s College of Education, “Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>


**THE 1AC PERFORMANCE SHATTERS TRADITIONAL MODELS OF ASIAN CULTURE**
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> The MYTH of the “MODEL MINORITY” is internalized through the CHAVINISTIC thinking of ESSENTIAL “Asian” values of HARD WORK, FAMILY DISCIPLINE and the MAINTENANCE of PATRIARCHY that regulates Asian youths’ SEXUALITY and keeps them away from the DYNAMIC and less white aspects of American culture such as hip hop.By Asian American youth beginning to identify more with other people of color the model minority myth could be SHAKEN UP.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">JALAN</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> A Journal of Asian Liberation</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">By the Editors-; //On the Origins of Anti-Asian Racism and How We Have Fought Back//; JALAN, Sept. 21;</span>


**It’s time for us to rise**
**It’s time for the oppressed to overthrow the oppressor**
**It’s time to regain our culture that’s been lost**
**It’s time to educate, and to recreate**
**A system corrupted by a dominant, oppressive ideology**
**We cannot wait, we cannot stay, we cannot stop til we fly away**
**If you’re gonna sit still its better to die**
**So get on your spaceship and fly past the sky**

==We are the Aliens 1AC 1.1 (Wake and Round 1 Georgetown)== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">THIS YEAR WE ARE INTRODUCED TO A NEW TOPIC YET YEAR AFTER YEAR AND DEBATE AFTER DEBATE, THE FOCUS OF THE DEBATE COMMUNITY LIVES IN A FANTASY WORLD OF HOLLOW EDUCATION INVOLVING THE CRAVING FOR LARGE NUCLEAR WAR AND EXTINCTION SCENARIOS USUALLY RESULTING FROM ADVANTAGES LIKE HEGEMONY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">ALONG WITH THIS OBSESSION WITH IMPACTS, WE HAVE A STRATEGIC LACK OF DISCUSSION ABOUT “REAL” TOPICS LIKE RACISM EVERY YEAR. THIS YEAR’S SEEMINGLY POLICY RELATED RESOLUTION IS, INFACT, STEEPED IN A VIOLENT HISTORY OF DOMINATION, AND CATEGORIZATION. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">OUR DRIVE TO CONQUER THE “OTHER” SUCH AS SPACE AND EXTRA-TERRESTRIALS STARTS EARLIER THAN THE KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A FLASHBACK TO 1492 REMINDS US THAT ANYTHING NON-WHITE WAS EXTRA TERRESTRIAL AND THE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN THE XENOPHOBIC WHITES AND THE OTHER “BEINGS” WERE THE X-FILES OF THE TIME.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">LIVELY well known critic and Novelist 2000</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2</span>


**THE WORD ALIEN IS USED FOR MUCH MORE SCI FI CREATURES YOU SEE ON TV. THE XENOPHOBES OF THE WORLD HAVE FRAMED THE FOREIGNER AS ALIEN AND USED THIS IMAGE TO ALLOW GROUPS AND THE MILITARY TO SHORE UP OPPRESSIVE IDEOLOGIES.**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Mizrach ‘2</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Dr. Steven Mizrach, professor of anthropology at Florida International University, “UFO’s In the Information Age,” 5/23 http://www.fiu.edu/~mizrachs/UFO-info-age.html//les]//</span>


//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">THE RHETORIC OF THE EVIL ALIEN IS UNIQUELY PRESENT IN THE ASIAN COMMUNITY. A QUICK GOOGLE SEARCH PROVES THAT PEOPLE OFTEN CITE THE SIMILARITIES BUT CONSIDER IT JUST A COINCIDENCE. HOWEVER, THIS DEPICTION IS BASED ON A WHITE EUROPEAN CREATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">NONG </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Lead Blogger on KHMER Life – A Cambodian Blog – Level = Gossiper</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k11</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Thany-Under the Alias - tuksuhew; Khmer Life Blogger – Khmer life is a Cambodian blog about the community</span>//; //8/26/2011;<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf| http://www.khmerlife.com/threads/1164-who-do-aliens-most-resemble]]</span>//


//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">THIS IDEOLOGY OF FEAR AND A SENSE OF SUPERIORITY HAS LED TO THE FRAMING OF COLORED BODIES, ESPECIALLY ASIANS, AS THE ALIEN, A FOREIGN, ILLEGAL IDENTITY TO BE DESTROYED, OPPRESSED, OR CHANGED.</span>**//
//**THE COMPARISON OF ASIANS AS AN ALIEN BEAST WITH DEFORMED FEATURES COMPARED TO THE BEAUTIFUL WHITES, LEADs TO THE DOMINATION OF ASIA. THIS XENOPHOBIC, DOMINANT IDEOLOGY HAS SEVERAL IMPACTS ON ASIA:**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">FIRST IS THE RAPE OF ASIA</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">THE US PRESENCE IN KOREA IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE DESTRUCTION OF KOREAN CULTURE AND IDEALS AND THE RAPE OF WOMEN AND LAND.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">KOREANS HAVE BEEN FOOLED AND ASSIMILATED INTO THE POSITION OF THE FOREVER FOREIGNER.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MAISEL </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k8</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled </span>//IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA; //June 2008;<span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]</span>//


//**THE SECOND SCENARIO IS THE JUSTIFICATION OF NUCLEAR ATTACKS:**//
//**SUBPOINT A IS HARRY TRUMAN’S JUSTIFICATION:**//
//**“The only language [the Japanese] seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them.When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast. It is most regrettable but nevertheless true.”**//
//**~President Harry S Truman, justifying his decision to drop bomb Hiroshima and Nagasaki.**//
//**SUBPOINT B:**//

//**Racism chose Japanese over Germans – not strategy.**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hume ’05</span>,** Mick Hume, degree in American Studies from Manchester University, columnist for the times, former editor for Living Marxism, editor-at-large of Spiked magazine, 8/2/05 (“Hiroshima: the 'White Man's Bomb' revisited,” spiked-essays, http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CACD0.htm)//


//**THE THIRD SCENARIO IS THE STATE OF DEBATE:**//
//**THIS FEAR OF THE OTHER LEAD TO THE DESTRUCTION OF CULTURE, RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, AND VIOLENCE.THE SAME IDEOLOGY HAS BEEN PRESENT IN DEBATE, WHERE MINORITIES ARE EXCLUDED**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">HILL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">prof @ BIOLA University </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Shelton K. -; </span>//African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in intercollegiate Debate; //THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF FORENSICS 2 Fall 202-235;//



//**SO TURN YOUR HEADPHONES UP.**//
//**ALONG WITH THE VOICES OF OUR FELLOW “ALIENS”, MIN AND I PERSONALLY ADVOCATE THAT THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD DECONSTRUCT THE CONCEPTION OF THE FOREIGNER IN TERMS OF “ALIEN”**//
//**THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD AFFIRM THIS THROUGH A PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION TO BREAK THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF WHITENESS AROUND US WHILE SPITTIN THE TRUTH SO WE CAN GROW EPISTEMOLOGICALLY AND BECOME EDUCATED TO LIBERATE OPPRESSED PEOPLE.**//


//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Play “ANGRY ASIAN MAN” - DECIPHER</span>**//

//I was given the gift could picture the pain in my people//
//Painted perfect depicted as if it was me trying to get at a citizenship//
//Someone to get on the ship//
//But I understand them//
//Call you chink can’t understand it//
//But you recognize hate in their eyes//
//But they can’t see yours – your eyes are slanted//
//Our parents were fiending//
//For the share of the green//
//It’s an arrogant greed//
//The American dream//
//All the keys to succeed is America’s cleaners//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Apparently we the slaves now – picking the cotton and pressing it flat</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pick it up promptly – Ready in half an hour to an hour </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Now the question is asked</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Credit or Cash – Were probably better with math or so I’ve been told</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Try to divide a division in half in addition to that you know we got sold</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lo and behold were folding the clothes</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Language barriers various</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">We drive terribly, curious how we got cast in fast and the furious?</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The problem being probably is being a knuckle Tamagotchi</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hollywood got them glued with a “watch me” serving hot tea</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Work like Rocky– The perfect Chinese </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Role Model – eyeglasses made out of coke bottles </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tae-Kwon-Do spokes model</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sister’s an import model</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">How you not gonna follow</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">C’mon.</span>//


//**I’m was the man on the moon..the one 8,000 miles away**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">A moon called India..and I remember to this day</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The reason why I came to Earth in a spaceship</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">They told me in America everybody makes it</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">It wasn’t true. I was tricked by humankind’s media</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">I thought I was headed for utopia and I was feelin a</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Little bit hopeful for a new start on life</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Clutchin a couple 20s and runnin away from strife</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">But me and my illegal alien family just encountered more</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racial slurs and dirty looks pierced me to the core</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Couldn’t understand it, couldn’t believe it</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Being different isn’t wrong but they just couldn’t see it</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">I thought I could escape..to release my feelings so I joined debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">And was shocked once more when I found out it just recreates</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The discrimination and the ignorance, the hatin and the snickerin</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">About “brown, curry, and 7-11” between bouts of bickerin</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">But something was flickerin inside me, a fire had ignited</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rather than fight it I chose to stand up and light it</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">To the papers that I call my aff and neg positions in debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">So listen cuz this is our stance and its our vision of “space”</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of acting like I’m White</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of living with the strife</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of roleplaying as the State</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of these norms and standards of debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">See I’m an alien from the future with some words of wisdom</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The only road to survival is fixing this system.</span>**//




//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">AS INTELLECTUALS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE. OUR PERFORMATIVE ACTION IS KEY</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community</span>//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>//





//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A 3-TIERED METHODOLOGY OF KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION BRIDGES THE GAP BETWEEN FORMS OF KNOWLEDGE, BREAKS OPPRESSIVE NORMS, AND ALLOWS THE FORMATION OF A SOCIAL POLITIC</span>**//
//**Dr. Brinkley** 20**08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>//




//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">WE MUST UNDERSTAND, EXPERIENCE, AND GROW IN ORDER TO CREATE CHANGE. THIS PROCESS IS CONSCIENTIZATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION</span>**//
//**DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE**//
//There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64//



//**THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE**//
//Conscientization allows us to NAME the world, a meaningful education that helps RECOGNIZE and UNDERSTAND the impact that societal conditions and oppression have on our lives, a constant clarification of what remains hidden within us that sees the world dynamically in the making, inspiring us to work against oppression and become active in efforts to TRANSFORM the world.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> **07** professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67//



==We are the Aliens 1AC 1.2 (Round 3 and 5 Georgetown)== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">THIS YEAR WE ARE INTRODUCED TO A NEW TOPIC YET YEAR AFTER YEAR AND DEBATE AFTER DEBATE, THE FOCUS OF THE DEBATE COMMUNITY LIVES IN A FANTASY WORLD OF HOLLOW EDUCATION INVOLVING THE CRAVING FOR LARGE NUCLEAR WAR AND EXTINCTION SCENARIOS USUALLY RESULTING FROM ADVANTAGES LIKE HEGEMONY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">ALONG WITH THIS OBSESSION WITH IMPACTS, WE HAVE A STRATEGIC LACK OF DISCUSSION ABOUT “REAL” TOPICS LIKE RACISM EVERY YEAR. THIS YEAR’S SEEMINGLY POLICY RELATED RESOLUTION IS, INFACT, STEEPED IN A VIOLENT HISTORY OF DOMINATION, AND CATEGORIZATION. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">OUR DRIVE TO CONQUER THE “OTHER” SUCH AS SPACE AND EXTRA-TERRESTRIALS STARTS EARLIER THAN THE KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A FLASHBACK TO 1492 REMINDS US THAT ANYTHING NON-WHITE WAS EXTRA TERRESTRIAL AND THE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN THE XENOPHOBIC WHITES AND THE OTHER “BEINGS” WERE THE X-FILES OF THE TIME.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">LIVELY well known critic and Novelist 2000</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE SUPREMACY IS AN UNNAMED POLITICAL SYSTEM THAT HAS MADE THE WORLD WHAT IT IS TODAY</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MILLS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 1-3</span>



**THE WORD ALIEN IS USED FOR MUCH MORE SCI FI CREATURES YOU SEE ON TV. THE XENOPHOBES OF THE WORLD HAVE FRAMED THE FOREIGNER AS ALIEN AND USED THIS IMAGE TO ALLOW GROUPS AND THE MILITARY TO SHORE UP OPPRESSIVE IDEOLOGIES.**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Mizrach ‘2</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Dr. Steven Mizrach, professor of anthropology at Florida International University, “UFO’s In the Information Age,” 5/23 http://www.fiu.edu/~mizrachs/UFO-info-age.html//les]//</span>


//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">THE RHETORIC OF THE EVIL ALIEN IS UNIQUELY PRESENT IN THE ASIAN COMMUNITY. A QUICK GOOGLE SEARCH PROVES THAT PEOPLE OFTEN CITE THE SIMILARITIES BUT CONSIDER IT JUST A COINCIDENCE. HOWEVER, THIS DEPICTION IS BASED ON A WHITE EUROPEAN CREATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">NONG </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Lead Blogger on KHMER Life – A Cambodian Blog – Level = Gossiper</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k11</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Thany-Under the Alias - tuksuhew; Khmer Life Blogger – Khmer life is a Cambodian blog about the community</span>//; //8/26/2011;<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf| http://www.khmerlife.com/threads/1164-who-do-aliens-most-resemble]]</span>//


//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">THIS IDEOLOGY OF FEAR AND A SENSE OF SUPERIORITY HAS LED TO THE FRAMING OF COLORED BODIES, ESPECIALLY ASIANS, AS THE ALIEN, A FOREIGN, ILLEGAL IDENTITY TO BE DESTROYED, OPPRESSED, OR CHANGED.</span>**//
//**THE COMPARISON OF ASIANS AS AN ALIEN BEAST WITH DEFORMED FEATURES COMPARED TO THE BEAUTIFUL WHITES, LEADs TO THE DOMINATION OF ASIA. THIS XENOPHOBIC, DOMINANT IDEOLOGY HAS SEVERAL IMPACTS ON ASIA:**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">FIRST IS THE RAPE OF ASIA</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">THE US PRESENCE IN KOREA IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE DESTRUCTION OF KOREAN CULTURE AND IDEALS AND THE RAPE OF WOMEN AND LAND.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">KOREANS HAVE BEEN FOOLED AND ASSIMILATED INTO THE POSITION OF THE FOREVER FOREIGNER.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MAISEL </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k8</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled </span>//IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA; //June 2008;<span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]</span>//


//**THE SECOND SCENARIO IS THE JUSTIFICATION OF NUCLEAR ATTACKS:**//
//**SUBPOINT A IS HARRY TRUMAN’S JUSTIFICATION:**//
//**“The only language [the Japanese] seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them.When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast. It is most regrettable but nevertheless true.”**//
//**~President Harry S Truman, justifying his decision to drop bomb Hiroshima and Nagasaki.**//
//**SUBPOINT B:**//

//**Racism chose Japanese over Germans – not strategy.**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hume ’05</span>,** Mick Hume, degree in American Studies from Manchester University, columnist for the times, former editor for Living Marxism, editor-at-large of Spiked magazine, 8/2/05 (“Hiroshima: the 'White Man's Bomb' revisited,” spiked-essays, http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CACD0.htm)//


//**THE THIRD SCENARIO IS THE STATE OF DEBATE:**//
//**THIS FEAR OF THE OTHER LEAD TO THE DESTRUCTION OF CULTURE, RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, AND VIOLENCE.THE SAME IDEOLOGY HAS BEEN PRESENT IN DEBATE, WHERE MINORITIES ARE EXCLUDED**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">HILL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">prof @ BIOLA University </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Shelton K. -; </span>//African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in intercollegiate Debate; //THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF FORENSICS 2 Fall 202-235;//



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Uni-cultural debate practices lead to the extinction of debate and forensics.</span>**
**VALDIVIA-SUTHERLAND**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> **Butte Community College**</span> **1998** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Cynthia; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs” National Communication Association’s 84th Annual meeting, November 22; </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.phirhopi.org/spts/spkrpts05.2/sutherland.htm]]</span>



//**SO TURN YOUR HEADPHONES UP.**//
//**ALONG WITH THE VOICES OF OUR FELLOW “ALIENS”, MIN AND I PERSONALLY ADVOCATE THAT THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD DECONSTRUCT THE CONCEPTION OF THE FOREIGNER IN TERMS OF “ALIEN”**//
//**THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD AFFIRM THIS THROUGH A PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION TO BREAK THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF WHITENESS AROUND US WHILE SPITTIN THE TRUTH SO WE CAN GROW EPISTEMOLOGICALLY AND BECOME EDUCATED TO LIBERATE OPPRESSED PEOPLE.**//





//**I’m was the man on the moon..the one 8,000 miles away**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">A moon called India..and I remember to this day</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The reason why I came to Earth in a spaceship</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">They told me in America everybody makes it</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">It wasn’t true. I was tricked by humankind’s media</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">I thought I was headed for utopia and I was feelin a</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Little bit hopeful for a new start on life</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Clutchin a couple 20s and runnin away from strife</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">But me and my illegal alien family just encountered more</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racial slurs and dirty looks pierced me to the core</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Couldn’t understand it, couldn’t believe it</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Being different isn’t wrong but they just couldn’t see it</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">I thought I could escape..to release my feelings so I joined debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">And was shocked once more when I found out it just recreates</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The discrimination and the ignorance, the hatin and the snickerin</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">About “brown, curry, and 7-11” between bouts of bickerin</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">But something was flickerin inside me, a fire had ignited</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rather than fight it I chose to stand up and light it</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">To the papers that I call my aff and neg positions in debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">So listen cuz this is our stance and its our vision of “space”</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of acting like I’m White</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of living with the strife</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of roleplaying as the State</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sick of these norms and standards of debate</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">See I’m an alien from the future with some words of wisdom</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The only road to survival is fixing this system.</span>**//




//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">AS INTELLECTUALS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE. OUR PERFORMATIVE ACTION IS KEY</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community</span>//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>//



//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">WE MUST UNDERSTAND, EXPERIENCE, AND GROW IN ORDER TO CREATE CHANGE. THIS PROCESS IS CONSCIENTIZATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION</span>**//
//**DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE**//
//There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64//



//**THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE**//
//Conscientization allows us to NAME the world, a meaningful education that helps RECOGNIZE and UNDERSTAND the impact that societal conditions and oppression have on our lives, a constant clarification of what remains hidden within us that sees the world dynamically in the making, inspiring us to work against oppression and become active in efforts to TRANSFORM the world.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> **07** professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67//


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE PRACTICES WITHIN DEBATE LEADS TO SERIAL POLICY FAILURE – TURNING SOLVENCY AND IMPACT TURNING THEIR FRAMEWORK ARGUMENTS</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos ‘06[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos, William V. Prof of Comparative Literature at SUNY Binghamton. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(quoted by Joe Miller in Cross-x, and posted on edebate and </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://cross-x.com/|cross-x.com]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110|http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110)]]</span>




==We are the Aliens 1AC 1.3 (BCFL #1, Bronx, BCFL #2)== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">THIS YEAR WE ARE INTRODUCED TO A NEW TOPIC YET YEAR AFTER YEAR AND DEBATE AFTER DEBATE, THE FOCUS OF THE DEBATE COMMUNITY LIVES IN A FANTASY WORLD OF HOLLOW EDUCATION INVOLVING THE CRAVING FOR LARGE NUCLEAR WAR AND EXTINCTION SCENARIOS USUALLY RESULTING FROM ADVANTAGES LIKE HEGEMONY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">ALONG WITH THIS OBSESSION WITH IMPACTS, WE HAVE A STRATEGIC LACK OF DISCUSSION ABOUT “REAL” TOPICS LIKE RACISM EVERY YEAR. THIS YEAR’S SEEMINGLY POLICY RELATED RESOLUTION IS, INFACT, STEEPED IN A VIOLENT HISTORY OF DOMINATION, AND CATEGORIZATION. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">OUR DRIVE TO CONQUER THE “OTHER” SUCH AS SPACE AND EXTRA-TERRESTRIALS STARTS EARLIER THAN THE KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">A FLASHBACK TO 1492 REMINDS US THAT ANYTHING NON-WHITE WAS EXTRA TERRESTRIAL AND THE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN THE XENOPHOBIC WHITES AND THE OTHER “BEINGS” WERE THE X-FILES OF THE TIME.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">LIVELY well known critic and Novelist 2000</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Adam-studied history and philosophy in England and London; phD student @ BurBack College University of London; //Masks: Blackness, Race, and the Imagination//; p. 1-2</span>




**THE WORD ALIEN IS USED FOR MUCH MORE SCI FI CREATURES YOU SEE ON TV. THE XENOPHOBES OF THE WORLD HAVE FRAMED THE FOREIGNER AS ALIEN AND USED THIS IMAGE TO ALLOW GROUPS AND THE MILITARY TO SHORE UP OPPRESSIVE IDEOLOGIES.**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Mizrach ‘2</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Dr. Steven Mizrach, professor of anthropology at Florida International University, “UFO’s In the Information Age,” 5/23 http://www.fiu.edu/~mizrachs/UFO-info-age.html//les]//</span>


//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">THE RHETORIC OF THE EVIL ALIEN IS UNIQUELY PRESENT IN THE ASIAN COMMUNITY. A QUICK GOOGLE SEARCH PROVES THAT PEOPLE OFTEN CITE THE SIMILARITIES BUT CONSIDER IT JUST A COINCIDENCE. HOWEVER, THIS DEPICTION IS BASED ON A WHITE EUROPEAN CREATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">NONG </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Lead Blogger on KHMER Life – A Cambodian Blog – Level = Gossiper</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k11</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Thany-Under the Alias - tuksuhew; Khmer Life Blogger – Khmer life is a Cambodian blog about the community</span>//; //8/26/2011;<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf| http://www.khmerlife.com/threads/1164-who-do-aliens-most-resemble]]</span>//


**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE SUPREMACY IS AN UNNAMED POLITICAL SYSTEM THAT HAS MADE THE WORLD WHAT IT IS TODAY</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MILLS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 1-3</span>



//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">THIS IDEOLOGY OF FEAR AND A SENSE OF SUPERIORITY HAS LED TO THE FRAMING OF COLORED BODIES, ESPECIALLY ASIANS, AS THE ALIEN, A FOREIGN, ILLEGAL IDENTITY TO BE DESTROYED, OPPRESSED, OR CHANGED.</span>**//
//**THE COMPARISON OF ASIANS AS AN ALIEN BEAST WITH DEFORMED FEATURES COMPARED TO THE BEAUTIFUL WHITES, LEADs TO THE DOMINATION OF ASIA. THIS XENOPHOBIC, DOMINANT IDEOLOGY HAS SEVERAL IMPACTS ON ASIA:**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">FIRST IS THE RAPE OF ASIA</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">THE US PRESENCE IN KOREA IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE DESTRUCTION OF KOREAN CULTURE AND IDEALS AND THE RAPE OF WOMEN AND LAND.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">KOREANS HAVE BEEN FOOLED AND ASSIMILATED INTO THE POSITION OF THE FOREVER FOREIGNER.</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MAISEL </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press</span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2k8</span>**//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled </span>//IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA; //June 2008;<span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]</span>//


//**THE SECOND SCENARIO IS THE JUSTIFICATION OF NUCLEAR ATTACKS:**//
//**SUBPOINT A IS HARRY TRUMAN’S JUSTIFICATION:**//
//**“The only language [the Japanese] seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them.When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast. It is most regrettable but nevertheless true.”**//
//**~President Harry S Truman, justifying his decision to drop bomb Hiroshima and Nagasaki.**//
//**SUBPOINT B:**//

//**Racism chose Japanese over Germans – not strategy.**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hume ’05</span>,** Mick Hume, degree in American Studies from Manchester University, columnist for the times, former editor for Living Marxism, editor-at-large of Spiked magazine, 8/2/05 (“Hiroshima: the 'White Man's Bomb' revisited,” spiked-essays, http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CACD0.htm)//


//**THE THIRD SCENARIO IS THE STATE OF DEBATE:**//
//**THIS FEAR OF THE OTHER LEAD TO THE DESTRUCTION OF CULTURE, RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, AND VIOLENCE.THE SAME IDEOLOGY HAS BEEN PRESENT IN DEBATE, WHERE MINORITIES ARE EXCLUDED**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">HILL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">prof @ BIOLA University </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Shelton K. -; </span>//African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in intercollegiate Debate; //THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF FORENSICS 2 Fall 202-235;//



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Uni-cultural debate practices lead to the extinction of debate and forensics.</span>**
**VALDIVIA-SUTHERLAND**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> **Butte Community College**</span> **1998** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Cynthia; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs” National Communication Association’s 84th Annual meeting, November 22; </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.phirhopi.org/spts/spkrpts05.2/sutherland.htm]]</span>



//**SO TURN YOUR HEADPHONES UP.**//
//**ALONG WITH THE VOICES OF OUR FELLOW “ALIENS”, MIN AND I PERSONALLY ADVOCATE THAT THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD DECONSTRUCT THE CONCEPTION OF THE FOREIGNER IN TERMS OF “ALIEN”**//
//**THE DEBATE COMMUNITY SHOULD AFFIRM THIS THROUGH A PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION TO BREAK THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF WHITENESS AROUND US WHILE SPITTIN THE TRUTH SO WE CAN GROW EPISTEMOLOGICALLY AND BECOME EDUCATED TO LIBERATE OPPRESSED PEOPLE.**//




//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Play “ANGRY ASIAN MAN” - DECIPHER</span>**//

//I was given the gift could picture the pain in my people//
//Painted perfect depicted as if it was me trying to get at a citizenship//
//Someone to get on the ship//
//But I understand them//
//Call you chink can’t understand it//
//But you recognize hate in their eyes//
//But they can’t see yours – your eyes are slanted//
//Our parents were fiending//
//For the share of the green//
//It’s an arrogant greed//
//The American dream//
//All the keys to succeed is America’s cleaners//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Apparently we the slaves now – picking the cotton and pressing it flat</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Pick it up promptly – Ready in half an hour to an hour </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Now the question is asked</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Credit or Cash – Were probably better with math or so I’ve been told</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Try to divide a division in half in addition to that you know we got sold</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lo and behold were folding the clothes</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Language barriers various</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">We drive terribly, curious how we got cast in fast and the furious?</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The problem being probably is being a knuckle Tamagotchi</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hollywood got them glued with a “watch me” serving hot tea</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Work like Rocky– The perfect Chinese </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Role Model – eyeglasses made out of coke bottles </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tae-Kwon-Do spokes model</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sister’s an import model</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">How you not gonna follow</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">C’mon.</span>//



//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">AS INTELLECTUALS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE. OUR PERFORMATIVE ACTION IS KEY</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community</span>//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>//



//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">WE MUST UNDERSTAND, EXPERIENCE, AND GROW IN ORDER TO CREATE CHANGE. THIS PROCESS IS CONSCIENTIZATION.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION</span>**//
//**DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE**//
//There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64//



//**THIS PROCESS OF CONSCIENTIZATION CAN CREATE REAL CHANGE**//
//Conscientization allows us to NAME the world, a meaningful education that helps RECOGNIZE and UNDERSTAND the impact that societal conditions and oppression have on our lives, a constant clarification of what remains hidden within us that sees the world dynamically in the making, inspiring us to work against oppression and become active in efforts to TRANSFORM the world.//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">OSAJIMA</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> **07** professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Keith-; </span>//REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans//; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 67//


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE PRACTICES WITHIN DEBATE LEADS TO SERIAL POLICY FAILURE – TURNING SOLVENCY AND IMPACT TURNING THEIR FRAMEWORK ARGUMENTS</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos ‘06[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos, William V. Prof of Comparative Literature at SUNY Binghamton. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(quoted by Joe Miller in Cross-x, and posted on edebate and </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://cross-x.com/|cross-x.com]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110|http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110)]]</span>





==<span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">New 1AC Cards -- Capitol Fall Classic</span>== 

The interconnection between hypersexualization and racialization of Asia justifies imperialism, racism, and violence.

KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k9

Nadia-; http://www.racismreview.com/blog/author/nadia/




=2AC Blocks= 
==Capitalism Kritik== 
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Perm: **Theorization about capitalism re-entrenches the oppression of society by only focusing on**</span>
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> class struggles</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Fraser </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">'10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Nancy, Professor of Political and Social Science and professor of philosophy at The New School ;</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Marketization, Social Protection, Emancipation: Toward a Neo-Polanyian Conception of Capitalist Crisis,article in progress and discussed in Storrs Lecture series 2009. pg 5]</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Marxist theory and class-based struggles are rooted in patriarchy and overlook racism, sexism,</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> and nationalism.</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Folbre 2001</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Nancy, Professor and former chair of of Economics at UMass; The Invisible Heart:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Economics and Family Values pg 211]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">PERMUTE: ENDORSE A CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF CAPITALISM THROUGH THE FRAMEWORK OF THE AFFIRMATIVE.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">THE PERMUTATION IS THE BEST OPTION AND PROMOTES COALITION BUILDING NECESSARY TO COMBAT RACISM</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">ADDITIONALLY, EMBRACING THE KRITIK ALONE FRACTURES COALITIONS AND DESTROYS CHANCES AT CREATING POLITICAL STRATEGIES TO COMBAT RACISM.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WEST</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Honorary chair of the Democratic Socialist of America </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1988</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Cornell-prof @Princeton University, DSA National Politicall Committee and a member of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> its African American Commission; //“Toward a Socialist Theory of Racism”//; </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> RACE & ETHNICITY ESERV; [[http://race.eserver.org/toward-a-theory-of-racism.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (year of publication found on Dr. West’s website: [[http://www.pragmatism.org/library/west/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MARXISM HAS FOUR BASIC CONCEPTIONS OF RACISM THAT ARE INADEQUATE THAT FALL SHORT OF AN ADEQUATE DISCUSSION OF THE FULL AND COMPREHENSIVE DYNAMICS OF RACE</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WEST</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Honorary chair of the Democratic Socialist of America </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1988</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Cornell-prof @Princeton University, DSA National Politicall Committee and a member of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> its African American Commission; //“Toward a Socialist Theory of Racism”//; </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> RACE & ETHNICITY ESERV; [[http://race.eserver.org/toward-a-theory-of-racism.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (year of publication found on Dr. West’s website: [[http://www.pragmatism.org/library/west/]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">CAPITALISM IS INEVITABLE BUT WE CHANGE THE FACE OF IT</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">----------------THEIR TURNS DO NOT APPLY-------------------</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">WHITE-SKINNED, BLUE-EYED, ANGLO-SAXON capitalism has taken over the system and transformed it into a large construction of White supremacy. Whiteness is responsible for financial crises and inequality. This system being replaced as countries like BRAZIL are turning to the PACESETTERS of liberal global capitalism and harnessing its VAST power for the sake of the poor.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">MEAD </span>**Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy **<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">2k9</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Walter-; //In Defense of Paleface Capitalism;// NEWSWEEK; April 11; [[http://www.newsweek.com/id/193501]]</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">WE CONTROL UNIQUENESS </span>****<span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';"> ONLY A RISK OF A TURN</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">The current financial crisis has SUSTAINED the CORE capitalist economies against the IMPOVERISHED periphery RESUSCITATING</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">U.S. power relative to its rivals.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">MEAD </span>**Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy **<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">2k9</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Walter-; “Only Makes You Stronger: Why Recession Bolstered America”; THE NEW REPUBLIC; Feb. 4;</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2169866/posts]]</span>


==US off the Planet K== 
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contextualizing analysis of oppression around material change is essential to provide political training to make more effective advocates. Ignoring politics only cedes the political to the right which UNIQUELY hurts people of color. We must gain the tools to fight power in the halls of power on OUR terms</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Themba-Nixon 2k</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;"> (makani, Changing the rules what public policy means for organizing Colorlines 3.2)</span>



**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Adopting an ethereal view of power based on philosophical abstraction turns their attempts to engage politics because minorities NEED to have political analysis that relates to the material conditions they face. </span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">bell **hooks 1990**, black feminist and author, postmodern blackness</span>


==State Prison Industrial Complex CP== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">State centric analysis creates the idea of a superstructure in politics that effaces the importance of individual agency to change political power</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations Harvard and Cambridge, Popular Dissent, Human agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2000</span>

State policy analysis engages in a gendered representation of history that allows for a continued subjugation of women and minorities
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations Harvard and Cambridge, Popular Dissent, Human agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2000</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">State Centric discourse disables the oppressed from being able to establish authenticity in their existence. The oppressed continues to silence their own vocation as they derive their agency through the state</span>
Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 46- 47

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPPB','serif'; font-size: 16.6667px;">Debate as a process divorced from the content of the speech act creates an exceptional liberal citizen that works with cold war norms of democratic citizenship</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD__SAE__</span>

__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPP','serif'; font-size: 15.3333px;">The use of debate as a method is part of the process of creating the US as an exemplar of democracy</span>**__
__**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>__
__<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD</span>__SAE

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPP','serif'; font-size: 15.3333px;">Debate transforms into embodiments of American exceptionalism</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD__SAE__</span>

__THE STATE IS PRESENT IN THE DEBATE COMMUNITY AS WE ARE BEING CONSTANTLY COERCED AND POLICED IN LEGITIMIZING THE DOMINATION OF PRIVILEGED PRACTICES__
__**Giroux**, Henry (20**06**). Waterbury Chair Professor in the College of Education at Pennsylvania State University__ The Giroux Reader__, Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers. Giroux on Giroux, an important author in the field.__

__THE STATE CONTINUES TO UTILIZE INSTITUTIONS LIKE SCHOOLS, REWRITING HISTORY TO THAT OF DOMINATION AND EXCLUSION TO PROP UP ITS CAPITALIST FETISH FOR PROFIT AND PRIVILEGE.__
__**Giroux**, Henry (20**06**). Waterbury Chair Professor in the College of Education at Pennsylvania State University__ The Giroux Reader__, Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers. Giroux on Giroux, an important author in the field.
==Cede the State K== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">State centric analysis creates the idea of a superstructure in politics that effaces the importance of individual agency to change political power</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations Harvard and Cambridge, Popular Dissent, Human agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2000</span>

State policy analysis engages in a gendered representation of history that allows for a continued subjugation of women and minorities
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations Harvard and Cambridge, Popular Dissent, Human agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2000</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">State Centric discourse disables the oppressed from being able to establish authenticity in their existence. The oppressed continues to silence their own vocation as they derive their agency through the state</span>
Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 46- 47


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPPB','serif'; font-size: 16.6667px;">Debate as a process divorced from the content of the speech act creates an exceptional liberal citizen that works with cold war norms of democratic citizenship</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD__SAE__</span>

__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPP','serif'; font-size: 15.3333px;">The use of debate as a method is part of the process of creating the US as an exemplar of democracy</span>**__
__**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>__
__<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD</span>__SAE

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'AdvPP','serif'; font-size: 15.3333px;">Debate transforms into embodiments of American exceptionalism</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks& Greene</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> January **2005**, </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Ronald Walter Greene is professor of communication at the university of minnesota and Darrin hicks is professor of communication studies at the university of Denver, Cultural Studies”Lost Convictions:Debating both sides and the ethical fashioning of liberal citizens”BCD__SAE__</span>

__THE STATE IS PRESENT IN THE DEBATE COMMUNITY AS WE ARE BEING CONSTANTLY COERCED AND POLICED IN LEGITIMIZING THE DOMINATION OF PRIVILEGED PRACTICES__
__**Giroux**, Henry (20**06**). Waterbury Chair Professor in the College of Education at Pennsylvania State University__ The Giroux Reader__, Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers. Giroux on Giroux, an important author in the field.__

__THE STATE CONTINUES TO UTILIZE INSTITUTIONS LIKE SCHOOLS, REWRITING HISTORY TO THAT OF DOMINATION AND EXCLUSION TO PROP UP ITS CAPITALIST FETISH FOR PROFIT AND PRIVILEGE.__
__**Giroux**, Henry (20**06**). Waterbury Chair Professor in the College of Education at Pennsylvania State University__ The Giroux Reader__, Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers. Giroux on Giroux, an important author in the field.

State Policy Analysis inherently skirts discussions of race, gender, and heteronormativity.
Shaw 2004(Will get full cite ASAP)

==Generic Kritiks== 
PHILOSOPHICAL AESTHETICS CURRENTLY IGNORES CONCEPTIONS OF RACE
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Race is the conceptual blind spot in philosophical aesthetics with aestheticians bypassing racialized categories and proceeding in colorblind terms. Despite exceptions, the discipline shuns RACIAL DIFFERENCE</span>
ROELOFS <span style="font-size: 12px;">Assc. Prof @ Hampshire College </span>2k6
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Monique-teaches and writes at the intersection of European, analytical, and postcolonial philosophies with a special focus on aesthetics and the philosophy of art and culture, feminist philosophy, and critical race theory; //The Veiled Presence of Race in the Philosophy of Art: Reclaiming Race for Aesthetics//; APA NEWSLETTER on: PHILOSOPHY AND THE BLACK EXPERIENCE, edited by John McClendon and George Yancy; Volume 06, Number 1; Fall.</span>




==Framework== 
The Division between policymaking and criticism is a false one. we must embrace nontraditional forms of participation as ways to return otherwise excluded issues into the political sphere
Kulynych 97, Withrop U Prof of Polysci (Jessica, "Performing Politics: Foucault, Habermas, and Postmodern Partcipation," //Polity,// Vol30, No2 (Winter 1997), 315-346, JSTOR)



T and FW is the way in which our oppressors force us to speak their langauge. This language is what reifies domination in all of its forms, including heteronormativity. We must reject this epistemological violence at all costs.
Marcuse Political Theorist at Columbia, Harvard, and Brandeis University 64
[Herbert, One-Dimensional Man, page 87]


Debate is a place for the voice of the oppressed -- this is the key arena for our movement
Warner and Bruschke 2003 (Ede, University of Louisville, John, CSU Fullerton, "GONE ON DEBATING: COMPETITIVE ACADEMIC DEBATE AS TOOL OF EMPOWERMENT FOR URBAN AMERICA") JFS


==Cede the Political== 
We Never Cede the political. Politics is never limited to simple definitions such as "governmental action," everything related to the improvement of someone's position is politics, even discussion. This link turns all your cede the political args.
Merriam-Webster's online dictionary, definition of POLITICS 2011



Their version of politics is policing -- referring to apolitical necessity in the face of radical political demands creates the conditions for totalitarian violence.
Zizek, Senior researcher atthe Institute of Sociology, University of Ljubjana, 2006 [Slavoj, //The Universal Exception,// p.183-189]


==T - (Beyond the Mesosphere, Staffed)== 
EXPLORATION includes Discovery of Knowledge, Self, and Society through Expanding Horizons
CSU FRESNO 2003
http://www.csufresno.edu/portfolio/Educational_Effectiveness_Review/Theme_links/exploration.htm






==Experientialism Turns== 
Turn – imposing one form of scholarship decreases participation. Creates a monoculture that strangles
diversity.
Walt 9/29/11
Stephen M., Professor of international affairs at Harvard, How to do social science, Foreign Policy, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/
posts/2011/09/28/how_to_do_social_science



//**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A 3-TIERED METHODOLOGY OF KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION BRIDGES THE GAP BETWEEN FORMS OF KNOWLEDGE, BREAKS OPPRESSIVE NORMS, AND ALLOWS THE FORMATION OF A SOCIAL POLITIC</span>**//
//**Dr. Brinkley** 20**08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>//


==Hip-Hop Bad== 
Hip-hop is an educational and political medium that uses music to engage people on a new level of awareness
The GW Hatchet in 2007
The United Nations Association - a nonprofit U.N. support group - and The Hip-Hop Association - a nonprofit organization endorsing hip-hop music - hosted "Hip-Hop Ambassadors Bridging the Gap!"



Hip-Hop has the potential to change not America, but the world. Real Hip Hop has an enormous impact on society and has the potential to empower the world's youth.
Dr. Renford R. Reese 2000
[Ph.D. from University of Southern California, professor in the political science department at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona "From the Fringe: The Hip Hop culture and ethics relations," Popular Culture Review, volume XI, No.2]


=="Oppressed" PIC**== 







==Heg Good K== 
**Hegemony is a WHITE system of power that allows the United States to go into other countries without any ethical problem. This creates a system of Messianic interventionism that creates terrible atrocities.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Martinot 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” Social Justice Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]</span>



==<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Militarism K</span>== 
**Whiteness gives the United States the interventionary ethos to go into other countries without any ethical problem.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Martinot 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” Social Justice Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]</span>

=Negative= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">Whiteness Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">DEBATE approaches the resolution in a way that puts limits on and polices the presence of marginalized groups. Debate is a critical thinking activity that is shaped by our discourse and our decisions. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">What we choose to talk about and how we choose to engage in a discussion of the topic shapes how we teach critical thinking skills and what we gain from research skill and that has value in an individual’s epistemological growth- how they see the world and how they relate to it. It is this that is the key to progressive social change. We challenge the affirmative's answer to the policy question of the resolution as having no value and a detriment to the epistemological growth of the individual. The way the 1ac engages in the discursive implications of the resolution is a White practice that sets barriers on what can and cannot be done. This effectively creates a wall of rhetorical silence that continues to reign supreme in debate which inevitably designs and crafts intellectuals into tools to sustain Whiteness and doesn’t allow them to grow epistemologically. We MUST break down constructions of Whiteness.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE SUPREMACY IS AN UNNAMED POLITICAL SYSTEM THAT HAS MADE THE WORLD WHAT IT IS TODAY</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MILLS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles-; //The Racial Contract//; p. 1-3</span>


**PLAY "WHITEY ON THE MOON" - GIL SCOTT HERON**
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">"A rat done bit my sister Nell.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Her face and arms began to swell.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(and Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I can't pay no doctor bill.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Ten years from now I'll be payin' still.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(while Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">The man jus' upped my rent las' night.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">('cause Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">No hot water, no toilets, no lights.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I wonder why he's uppi' me?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">('cause Whitey's on the moon?)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I wuz already payin' 'im fifty a week.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Taxes takin' my whole damn check,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Junkies makin' me a nervous wreck,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">The price of food is goin' up,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">An' as if all that shit wuzn't enough:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">A rat done bit my sister Nell.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(with Whitey on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Her face an' arm began to swell.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(but Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Was all that money I made las' year</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(for Whitey on the moon?)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">How come there ain't no money here?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(Hmm! Whitey's on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Y'know I jus' 'bout had my fill</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(of Whitey on the moon)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">I think I'll sen' these doctor bills,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Airmail special</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">(to Whitey on the moon)"</span>

**Space..let me ask what does it really mean**
**Beyond the mesosphere? Or this place Im at with my team**
**Because it seems that the same issues that we face**
**About space is the same issues I see bout this place**
**But first before I delve into my criticism**
**Try to listen as im spittin my story, aint no dissin**
**So listen up n get down and try to understand**
**Word up, this is my story about Uncle Sam**
**See I was young when I finally moved to the States**
**Confused and angry at this place for the problems it gave**
**Me and my fam, stress pent up inside of my brain**
**It’s a miracle I didn’t resort to mary jane**
**It was insane, how could another human dominate me**
**And hate me in such a way its like they could just replace me**
**So I can think, act, and look like the rest**
**So they can train me til I pass my citizenship test**
**And I can’t say what I want because it’s not “topical”**
**Under their deluded vision, clouded opticals**
**What this is a way to clear up your eyes**
**So the oppressed can be free from all of your lies**
**Who am I nowadays? Korean- American?**
**I don’t really know I got no Korean experience**
**To show nowadays except through my flow**
**So I bleed on a pen and pad and I hope**
**Actually, fuck hope its time for some action**
**Light the fire to the fuse and spit truth when im spittin**
**Poetry to free my soul, liberation is the mission**
**A voice for the voiceless call me a verbal technician**
**Fixin this system, Its like they want to incinerate ones**
**Who take a stance and deviate from**
**Norms and standards practiced currently**
**In the State or State of Debate, won’t you see**
**Open your eyes and realize the lies**
**You don’t believe in half the answers you devise**
**You say fairness and education, but rarely**
**And barely do you learn, maybe momentarily**
**To top it off our cultures are gradually erased**
**This system makes us debate with a fake**
**Identity til we all sound the same**
**Different styles are excluded and who takes the blame?**
**Not the overseer, but the one with low social status**
**For bein different and escaping this mindless chatter**
**So listen up get down this is the product of decades**
**Of bein voiceless, lesser and havin our identities fade**
**This is da fire we bringin to the fuse of revolution**
**Its time to revolutionize this resolution**




**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden, interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE that continues to subjugate and police. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">LINK 2: THE MINIMAL MECHANISM OF METHODOLOGY. THE 1AC VALIDATES THEIR TRUTH CLAIMS THROUGH ONE TRADITIONAL WAY OF KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION: EVIDENCE. THE CRITICISM BREAKS FREE AND VALIDATES THROUGH SONGS, THE NARRATIVE, AND EVIDENCE. THE VALIDATION OF KNOWLEDGE THROUGH THE COMMON EXPERIENCE OF THE ASIAN IDENTITY AND THE USAGE OF HIP HOP SHOULD BE PREFERRED BECAUSE TRADITIONAL WAYS SUPPORT WHITE PRIVILEGE AND EXCLUDE OTHERS. WE STOP THE POLICING AND ASSIMILATION OF TRUTH</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Dr. Brinkley </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">20**08** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span>


**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">WE ISOLATE THREE IMPLICATIONS: FIRST:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">ALL IMPACTS</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> REL</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Y</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> ON A CONSTRUCTION OF WHITENESS</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">. WHITENESS IS AN OVERARCHING UMBRELLA WHICH HOUSES </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">colonialism, racist and sexist stereotypes as well as genocide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">SECOND: </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">WHITE PRACTICES WITHIN DEBATE LEADS TO SERIAL POLICY FAILURE – TURNING SOLVENCY AND IMPACT TURNING THEIR FRAMEWORK ARGUMENTS</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos ‘06[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Spanos, William V. Prof of Comparative Literature at SUNY Binghamton. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(quoted by Joe Miller in Cross-x, and posted on edebate and </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://cross-x.com/|cross-x.com]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #354258; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[@http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110|http://www.cross-x.com/vb/showthread.php?t=945110)]]</span>


**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">THIRD:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">THERE IS A LACK OF DIVERSITY WITHIN INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">HILL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">prof @ BIOLA University </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Shelton K. -; //African American Students’ Motivation to Participate in intercollegiate Debate;// THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF FORENSICS 2 Fall 202-235;</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Uni-cultural debate practices lead to the extinction of debate and forensics.</span>**
**VALDIVIA-SUTHERLAND**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> **Butte Community College**</span> **1998** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Cynthia; “Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs” National Communication Association’s 84th Annual meeting, November 22; </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.phirhopi.org/spts/spkrpts05.2/sutherland.htm]]</span>


**ALTERNATIVE TEXT 1:**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Thus the Alternative: The people in this round should accept their role as intellectuals who can shape reality within the arena of the debate and as future policy makers. They should critically examine and debate the advocacy of the affirmative to realize and learn their relationship to the issues raised within the round so they can grow epistemologically and dynamically change their lives and the community through the debate and the ballot.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">ALTERNTIVE TEXT 2: Reject the affirmative for its support of the political system of Whiteness. The people in this round should use a counter hegemonic methodology to critically examine Whiteness and grow epistemologically so we can create dynamic changes.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">OUR </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">ENGAGEMENT </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">SUCCESSFULLY EXAMINES AND BREAKS DOWN WHITENESS. THE CRITICISM ALLOWS ROOM FOR SOCIAL CHANGE </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Ideologies shape our interpretation and understanding of some aspects of social existence such as the current power structure. But Hegemony is not coercive but the product of CONSENT of those who are subjugated. Hegemony is thus not stable but fluid and makes room for oppositional consciousness. Social Transformations through critical examinations of power relations is possible. Ideological rhetorical criticisms of race SOLVE</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">AS INTELLECTUALS </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> IN ORDER TO OVERTHROW THE POLICING OF PRESENCE THAT KEEPS THE OPPRESSED INVISIBLE</span>**
<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 16px;">è</span><span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

===2NC Link Extension=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Link 3: Space exploration and development uniquely perpetuates and expands the belief of white supremacy and manifest destiny that continues to create a system of hierarchical dominance. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Linda Billings, “Spaceflight, Culture, and Ideology ” 2010</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8px;"> [Juana Maria Rodriguez is Associate Professor of Gender and Women's Studies at UC Berkeley. She is the author of //Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces// (NYU 2003) and has published numerous articles related to her research interests in sexuality studies, queer activism in a transnational context, critical race theory, technology and media arts, and Latin@ and Caribbean studies. She holds a B.A. in Liberal Studies from San Francisco State University, an MA in Comparative Literature from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in Ethnic Studies from UC Berkeley]</span>

===Answer to Permutations=== 
**The Perm is merely a paternalistic act of false liberation. It does not put into account the ways in which the exploitation that the oppressed face**
Freire, 68
Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 47-48


===Answer to Plan Focus Good=== 
The primary question of the debate is not the plan, but how we justify the plan.
Mark <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Franke</span>, Prof. International Studies – U. of North British Columbia, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2K</span> [European Journal of International Relations 6.3: 307-333]


==Ghost Disadvantage== 
===1NC=== 
A. We are haunted by ghosts –
Our politics has come back to haunt us, and we must deal with it.
The ghost terrifies us. It comes FROM the past THROUGH the future, the absolute other that will shock us with a politics that reshapes and subsumes our openness to the “other.”
We are not prepared to deal with this haunting. What returns from the past is what __we have made__! Our relationship to this ghost is how we can begin to discuss this new way of thinking.
The affirmative attempts to make political decisions through our ability predict future events that are based on past actions. They claim that somehow voting for the affirmative will save us from a destructive future destined for the status quo.
Material politics should not be seen inevitable or knowable. The material is a catastrophic disruption, a __great interruption__. The ghost that haunts us is the materiality arrived from the past that cannot be made meaningful
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nick </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mansfield ’08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Professor at Department of Critical and Cultural Studies at Macquarie University, Co-founding editor of the journal “Derrida Today,” researching sovereignty, war, and human rights, 2008 (“‘There is a Spectre Haunting…’: Ghosts, Their Bodies, Some Philosophers, a Novel and the Cultural Politics of Climate Change,” Borderlands E-Journal Vol. 7, No. 1, http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no1_2008/mansfield_climate.htm)</span>


B. Implications –


The haunting is a spiritual separation from ourselves and others. It is our job to see the ghost for what it is, to embrace the haunting and address the past

We can bring down totalitarian regimes through our discourse. The survivability of the planet is at stake. Without a change and recognition of our conscience, all impacts are inevitable

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Violet B. </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ketels ’96</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Associate Professor of English at Ketels University, Former Director of the International Heritage Program, 11/1/96 (“The Holocaust: Remembering for the Future: ‘Havel to the Castle! The Power of the Word,’” The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 1996 548:45-69, Vol. 548, No. 1, pg. 45-69, </span>

==Debate Agency Counter Advocacy (Baltimore City College BB)== 
===1NC=== 
The people in the debate community should establish space as common.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Role Playing prevents debaters from making a personal connection to the topic. This is a form of self negation since we are forced to play in this make believe land called fiat- we lose the ability to establish agency within our discourses</span>**
Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 46- 47

===2NC Solvency Extension=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">State centric analysis creates the idea of a superstructure in politics that effaces the importance of individual agency to change political power</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-align: justify;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations Harvard and Cambridge, Popular Dissent, Human agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press, 2000</span>

==Earth Common Counter Advocacy (Baltimore City College NM)== 
===1NC=== 
Advocacy against BCC MN: The United States federal government should examine capitalism through the development of earth as an anti racist and anti white supremacist common.

Advocacy against BCC BB:<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;"> The United States Federal government should establish earth as an anti-racist common.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">THE ADVOCACY IS THE BEST OPTION AND PROMOTES COALITION BUILDING NECESSARY TO COMBAT RACISM.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">ADDITIONALLY, EMBRACING THE KRITIK ALONE FRACTURES COALITIONS AND DESTROYS CHANCES AT CREATING POLITICAL STRATEGIES TO COMBAT RACISM.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anti Racist Struggle is both an ethical imperative and political necessity for democratic socialists</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marxist conceptions of racism have prevented socialist movements from engaging in antiracist activity. The only way to break the democratic socialist movement out of this circle is to be sensitized to the critical importance of antiracist struggles</span>
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">WEST</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Honorary chair of the Democratic Socialist of America </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">1988</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Cornell-prof @Princeton University, DSA National Politicall Committee and a member of</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> its African American Commission; //“Toward a Socialist Theory of Racism”//; </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> RACE & ETHNICITY ESERV; [[http://race.eserver.org/toward-a-theory-of-racism.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (year of publication found on Dr. West’s website: [[http://www.pragmatism.org/library/west/]])</span>


==Heidegger Disadvantage== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In constructing the outside world as an item to be dominated makes us create a new technological ontology that makes us all expendable. This thought process results in a re-entrenching of affirmative harms as all solvency is co-opted by the drive to dominate nature intrinsic to western metaphysics. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Ross</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor at Queen’s University</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Andrew Peter, “Rethinking Environmental Responsibility: Heidegger, Profound Boredom and the Alterity of Nature”, September) </span>


The 1AC portrays space exploration as the manifest destiny strengthening imperial notions of inevitable destiny of humanity and conquest that naturalize American domination under the representation of defending the species as a whole.
Asif A. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saddiqi</span>__**, assistant professor of history @ Fordham University, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__**, “Competing Technologies, National(ist) Narratives, and Universal Claims: Toward a Global History of Space Exploration”, //Technology and Culture// Vol. 51 Number 2 DH


Technological thought makes every object a standing reserve; where even humans become replacable
Mitchell, <span style="font-family: TimesNewRoman,serif;">Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, 2005 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew J. Mitchell, “Heidegger and Terrorism” Research in Phenomenology, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 181-218 SC)</span>


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disband NASA Counterplan</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**COUNTER ADVOCACY: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD DISBAN NASA BECAUSE IT IS INSTITUTIONALLY RACIST.**



**NASA IS AN OPPRESSIVE INSTITUTION**

**McQUAID****Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University** **2k7**

Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. LauniusEditors;

“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.


Individual Racists are created by systemic empowerment, freedom comes by attacking institutional power

**BARDNT** **Director of a non profit organization called CrossRoads** **1991**

Joesph-; //DISMANTLING RACISM: The Continuing Challenge to White America//; p. 73



**<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The body is a sight for the production of an unfettered being – their understanding of identity rivets being and prevents its creative journey through the infinite. We should not seek to understand identity; we should seek to reach the point where identity itself is meaningless.</span></span>**

**<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Ballantyne 2007</span></span>** (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 78-79)


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Framework</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>=== 
The affirmative defends the resolution as a metaphor for the debate community doing an action. This is not an instrumental affirmation of a political action and allows the affirmative to recast the debate around whatever terms they choose.
A. Our framework – debate should be a site for contest over political proposals for liberation. This requires that the affirmative present a topical plan of action that increases the instrumental exploration and/or development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere in a way that confronts white supremacy through the actions of the plan rather than the mere performance of identifying whiteness as a problem. To meet out interpretation the AFF must accomplish three tasks
1. Identify the violence and harm of White Supremacy.
2. Explain the historical production and causes of White Supremacy
3. Construct a policy strategy that confronts or disrupts that history of white supremacy.
B. Our interpretation most predictable given the wording of the resolution:

2. “Resolved” expresses intent to implement the plan
<span style="font-size: 16px;">American Heritage Dictionary 2000</span>


4. “Should” denotes an expectation of enacting a plan
<span style="font-size: 16px;"> American Heritage Dictionary</span> – <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000 </span>[www.dictionary.com]


5. “The United States federal government” is the central government in D.C
<span style="font-size: 16px;">WEBSTER'S ‘76</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY UNABRIDGED, 1976, p. 833. </span>



6. According to Martin Luther King and the History of the Civil Rights Movement Successful and Ethical Approaches to Challenge White Supremacy Require A Specific Policy Strategy – Prerequisite to effective social struggles
Anthony E. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Cook,</span> Associate Professor of Law, University of Florida, March, 19<span style="font-size: 16px;">90</span> 103 Harv. L. Rev. 985



7. We win the race to the middle – the aff can claim kritikal advantages and still defend plan passage and the neg can run a K against a policy aff. This accesses all their offense.



C. Violation – The affirmative Fails to Present a Policy Strategy for Legally Confronting White Supremacy
Orly <span style="font-size: 16px;">Lobel</span>, Assistant Professor of Law, University of San Diego, October <span style="font-size: 16px;">2006</span> “The Paradox of Extra-Legal Activism: Critical Legal Consciousness and Transformative Politics” Legal Studies Research Paper No. 07-75



D. Reasons to prefer –
1. Ground – The aff will always win that the principles of their advocacy are good in the abstract – we can only debate the merits of their framework if they defend the specific consequences of political implementation
Michael <span style="font-size: 16px;">Ignatieff</span>, Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2004</span> //Lesser Evils// p. 20-1



2. Topical education - By manipulating the topic to access their political project they skirt debate about the implementation of policies by the government. Their education is distrusting of institutional study and pragmatic reform. Even if their intentions are noble, their message results in fascist totalitarianism
Martin <span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis</span>, Assistant Professor at George Washington, 19<span style="font-size: 16px;">92</span> //Green Delusions// p. 258


3. Extra-topicality – even if the affirmative claims to advocate the resolution, they skirt discussion of its instrumental by arguing the benefits derived from their contextualized advocacy outweigh. This is a voting issue because we’re forced to win framework just to get back to equal footing – extra topicality also proves the resolution insufficient and explodes aff ground.


4. Limits – there are limitless contexts or avenues through which they could purport to advocate the plan. Our interpretation limits debate to promote politically relevant dialogue and structured communication
Donald S. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Lutz</span>, Professor of Polisci at Houston, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span> //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 39-40



E. Framework is a reason to vote negative –
You must use your ballot to ratify constraints on discourse to preserve fairness
Ruth Lessl <span style="font-size: 16px;">Shively</span>, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span> //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 179



And, only specifically supported proposals will be able to overcome bureaucratic resistance to changing space policies

<span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nolan and Holmes 2008,</span></span> Janne E Nolan, prof. of int’l affairs @ Pittsburgh, James R Holmes, assc. Prof. of strategy @ US Naval War College, March/April 2008, “The Bureaucracy of Nuclear Deterrence,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 64:1, p. 40-3; 55-8



==Development PIC== 
===1NC=== 
Replace the word "development" or any form of the word with "cultivate" or the appropriate tense of the word.


No matter the context, the word development evokes the memory of what those lower in society are not, killing value to life- The affirmative can’t separate themselves from the word’s connotations
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Esteva, ‘92</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mexican activist, "deprofessionalized intellectual" and founder of the Universidad de la Tierra in the Mexican city of Oaxaca (Gustavo, “The Development Dictionary A Guide to Knowledge as Power”, ed by Wolfgang Sachs, pg 10-11)</span>



Vote negative – rejecting the plan’s unproblematic use of “development” is vital to opening a political contestation on the terms value and exposes the way in which it has become double-speak for political manipulation – all of their arguments about the triviality of the term – prove the magnitude of its effect – even casual uses have incredible meanings

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cornwall, ‘07 - </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Research Fellow in Participation and Development at the Institute of Development Studies - (Andrea, August 2007. “ Buzzwords and Fuzzwords: Deconstructing Development Discourse ” Development in Practice, Vol. 17. pp. 471-484. JSTOR.)</span>


===<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 2NC Overview</span>=== 

Turns the AFF – Their use of the “development” evokes ideas of domination and gets coopted to create a violent colonizing power – Marx proves

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Esteva, ‘92</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mexican activist, "deprofessionalized intellectual" and founder of the Universidad de la Tierra in the Mexican city of Oaxaca (Gustavo, “The Development Dictionary A Guide to Knowledge as Power”, ed by Wolfgang Sachs, pg 10-11)</span>

===Language Matters=== 
Re-evaluation of the discourse of the word “development” is necessary to reverse historical trends of Western domination over the Third World and the social construction of underdeveloped nations.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Escobar 95 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Kenan Distinguished Professor in the Department of Anthropology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill – (1995. “Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World.” Pgs. 3-4. Princeton University Press.)</span>


The language of policy makers results in tangible outcomes—certain framings increase the likelihood of violence and death
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Doty ‘93</span>
Roxanne Lynn Doty, Arizona State University, Foreign Policy as Social Construction: A Post- Positivist Analysis of U.S. Counterinsurgency Policy in the Philippines, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 37, No. 3 (Sep., 1993), pp. 297-320


===A2: Butler=== 
# Butler votes neg---concedes that the regulation of speech is appropriate where there is a clear story about its negative effects
Fleche ‘99
Anne, Michigan Institute of Technology, //Theatre Journal// 51.3, muse

# Err neg---Butler’s pedantic insistence on subversive performance ignores the very real political and emotional damage done through the choices of certain words---if we win a net-benefit, you should ignore this argument
Nussbaum ‘99
Martha, law and ethics at University of Chicago, //New Republic//, ebsco

4. Re-appropriation fails- empirics prove- any other use contradicts the very meaning of the word
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Esteva, ‘92</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mexican activist, "deprofessionalized intellectual" and founder of the Universidad de la Tierra in the Mexican city of Oaxaca (Gustavo, “The Development Dictionary A Guide to Knowledge as Power”, ed by Wolfgang Sachs, pg 10-11)</span>


===A2: Perm Do Both=== 
Any residual link is enough---must reject doublethink in EVERY instance
Kehl and Livingston ‘99
D.G. Kehl and Howard Livingston, English at Arizona State University and Pace University, July 1999
(English Journal 88.6)

===A2: Perm Do the CP=== 
# Undermines the plan and turns their theory arguments – Metaphors structure our understanding of the world – only NARROWING the debate to focus on the metaphors and language of the plan can enable effective policy education
Väyrynen 98
Tarja, Peace Research @ Tampere University, July 1998, //International Journal of Peace Studies//, http://www.gmu.edu/academic/ijps/vol3_2/Vayrynen.htm


===Neoliberalism Impact Scenario=== 
The word “development” drives a neverending need for economic progress, producing exploitation and oppression of the ‘Third World’
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Escobar 95 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Kenan Distinguished Professor in the Department of Anthropology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill – (1995. “Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World.Pgs. 3-4. Princeton University Press.)</span>

===A2: We use "development" benignly=== 
History is key to understanding connotations
Esteva, 92 Mexican activist, "deprofessionalized intellectual" and founder of the Universidad de la Tierra in the Mexican city of Oaxaca
(Gustavo, “The Development Dictionary A Guide to Knowledge as Power”, ed by Wolfgang Sachs, pg 8)


Even if they are giving a different meaning to development- Societal acceptance means development is linked to something concrete in human relations
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Esteva, 92</span> Mexican activist, "deprofessionalized intellectual" and founder of the Universidad de la Tierra in the Mexican city of Oaxaca
(Gustavo, “The Development Dictionary A Guide to Knowledge as Power”, ed by Wolfgang Sachs, pg 11-12)

===A2: PICs Bad=== 
Language pics are uniquely real world – empirically debates over a single word are the focus of policy debate
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kemp ‘10</span>
John Kemp is a Reuters market analyst COLUMN-What’s in a word? Senate battle on derivatives: John Kemp May 10, 2010 http://blogs.reuters.com/financial-regulatory-forum/2010/05/10/column-whats-in-a-word-senate-battle-on-derivatives-john-kemp/

==Rhizome PIC== 
===**<span style="font-size: 16px;">1NC</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention One is the Advocacy:</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **We affirm the rhizomatic politics of the 1AC as a means of political strategy but reject the use of a government based plan of action.**</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **The 1AC simultaneously defends two interpretations of political strategy. There is a plan-oriented pragmatic strategy which surrounds the one sentence traditional plan text. There is also a bottom-up movement which takes the form of questioning the formulations of desire as stated by their Deleuze evidence. We defend the micropolitical process as described in their 1AC Deleuze evidence and reject the goals-oriented form of politics which constructs the plan.**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">This is sufficient to solve. Our affirmation of rhizomatic politics is meaningful in that it challenges the dominant hegemonic order of the state and its ability to control both thought and action. We are against divisions and articulations of place and order. We affirm instead a politics of continuation – of constantly seeking new political outlets and investigating their potential. Instead of setting up a new state or a new regime, we move beyond the simple binary of beginning and end and seek to explore the vast middle ground of infinite possibilities; a world in which there is no central authoritative base. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Conley in 2006</span> (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980</span> (A Thousand Plateaus 214-215)



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention Two are the Net Benefits</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 1 is the Fixidity of the Plan – Rhizomatic politics form possibilities but the plan is a certainty – regardless of the process which results in the plan, it stands as a transcendent monument to the future goals of the movement. Because the plan dictates what the possible outcomes of rhizomatic politics can and cannot be, it has already sacrificed the ability to think creatively which is necessary to overcome the states attempt at counter-revolution.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goddard in 2k6</span> (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 2 - It’s basically a prisoner’s dilemma – the state will adapt and follow your politics. It is worthless to challenge the state in a race to control – they have the lead and will copy our strategies before they can become successful. Their political strategy is doomed to failure.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Purchase ‘90</span>**, Teaches in the Department of Traditional and Modern Philosphy at the University of Sydney, 1990 [Graham, Anarchist Society & Its Practical Realization]


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 3 is the Agency Trade-off DA: their focus on the government as the site for transformative politics trades-off with immediate micropolitical activism. Waiting for the revolution to gain momentum ignores the power we already have to create change. Your role is to dismiss the promise of future change to affirm already existing struggles.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Colebrook 2002</span> (Claire, Understanding Deleuze, <span style="font-family: 'Palatino-Roman','serif'; font-size: 14px;">Pg. </span><span style="font-family: 'Palatino-Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">xxxviii)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 4 is Goals versus the Process – The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span> (Anti-Oedipus, 370-1)**


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 3 is the Ballot</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The affirmative uses the ballot as a medium for implementing their source of politics. This type of reliance on normative procedures as well as a focus on winning ties them back to the same structures they try to break away from. Making the ballot a goal of rhizomatic politics kills rhizomatic politics. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">We have the best methodology for derailing </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 16px;">identity, ideology, and structures of fascism – the affirmative fails because it doesn’t decode the boundaries of reality in the ways that the United States Federal Government ratifies its policies – they still approach the same imperial grammar that their evidence indicts. Reject the aff as a way of affirming rhizomatic politics.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 4 is Hierarchy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Debate elims are switch side, hierarchial, competitions. Its two teams who try to advance in the hierarchy. It is a zero sum game. The winner debates whoever is on their same hierarchy. They do this to move up another tier. The point of a thousand plateaus and its lack of existence of chapters is to combat hierarchy. They can’t solve the aff in debate because rhizomatic politics is supposed to get rid of hierarchies. </span>**

===A2: Permutation=== 
**3. The alternative is a prerequisite – breaking down every instance of fascism is key to**
**a world of less hierarchy and a redirection of desire into a more active force.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Foucault 1972</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael Foucault, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">French historian and philosopher, associated with the structuralist and post-structuralist movements, Intro to Anti-Oedipus, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">pg. xiii-iv)</span>


**4. Action is only possible after awareness – their ideas and judgments to take action first make this impossible**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Watts 1951** (</span>Alan, dean of the American Academy of Asian Studies and research fellow at Harvard UniversityThe Wisdom of Insecurity, pg 75-6)


==Pastor Lopez Kritik (River Hill HL)== 
===1NC=== 
Play: "La Cumbia" - Pastor Lopez y Su Combo

===2NC Extension -- Embrace Pastor Lopez=== 

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">VOTE NEGATIVE TO MAKE THE AFFIRMATIVE DISAPPEAR. THIS IS THE ONLY WAY TO EMBRACE THE REAL LOPEZ PASTOR LOPEZ AND TO MAKE THE FAKE LOPEZ, ANDREW GO AWAY FOREVER!</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">MANN IN 1996</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (PAUL, POMONA ENGLISH, THE NINE GROUNDS OF INTELLECTUAL WARFARE, postmodern culture, january)</span>

==Case Arguments== 
===**Suicidal Whiteness Turns**=== 
Members of the oppressor group are highly invested in a mentality of dehumanization towards people of color – A plan for humanization that is led by whites will always be fraught with problems due to the limited consciousness of whites, even if the plans arise from those who are well meaning. People of color must provide the major source of knowledge, inspiration, and sacrifice in humanity’s collective liberation from white racism. The spark of knowledge from people of color is the crucial link to liberation.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ricky Lee </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Allen</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">04</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [professor at the University of New Mexico’s College of Education, “Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>



WHITES MUST BUILD COALITIONS WITH COLORED PEOPLE AND LET THEM LEAD THE MOVEMENT
Ricky Lee **Allen**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [professor at the University of New Mexico’s College of Education, “Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>



Letting whites lead liberatory struggles is __divisive__ – creates the conditions of __internalized racism__ in which minorities are left struggling and fighting towards assimilation into the white model
Ricky Lee **Allen**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [professor at the University of New Mexico’s College of Education, “Whiteness and Critical Pedagogy,” Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 36, No. 2, 2004]</span>





**The Plan is merely a paternalistic act of false liberation. It does not put into account the ways in which the exploitation that the oppressed face**
Freire, 68
Paulo Freire. Educational Revolutionary. “Pedagogy of the Oppressed”. Pg 47-48




===**Rhizomatic Politics Bad**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Turn: Rhizomatic politics have empirically proven to fail.The Israeli Defense Force’s appropriation of the theoretical maneuvers of the “War Machine” as a means of choreographing mass violence renders this all too apparent.</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Weizman</span>__**, Director of Goldsmith’s College Centre for Research Architecture, **__‘6__** [Eyal, “The Art of War,” http://www.frieze.com/feature_single.asp?f=1165]


===**Extinction Impact Rhetoric Bad**=== 
**EXTINCTION RHETORIC IS TOOL OF THE WESTERN ELITE – THESE EXAGGERATED**
**THREATS SILENCE GLOBAL SUFFERING AND MAKE 3rd WORLD SOCIETY DEPENDENT ON**
**THE WEST**
MARTIN 84 (Brian, research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National
University, and a member of SANA; SANA Update (Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter), number 16, May
1984, pp. 5-6. http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html)


**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR WAR ONLY SEEK TO MASK THE OPPRESSION AND EXPLOITION OF WHITE SUPREMACY AND INSTITUTIONALLY RACIST PRACTICES</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The DEATH CULTURE posed by nuclear war has already ENDED the world for people of color, SURVIVAL AT ANY COST outweighsLIBERTY, PEACE and DIGNITY. People of color face NUCLEAR HOLOCAUST and GENOCIDE through their jobs, housing, schools, families and land. Someone MUST STAND UP and make the connection between NUCLEAR ARSENALS, RACISM, SEXISM and IMPERIALISM.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">OMOLADE</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> City</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> College Center for Worker Education in New York City </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">1984</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Barbara-a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; //Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust//; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, Summer, p. 12;</span>
<span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]]</span>
===Global Warming = Racist=== 
**RACISM AND GLOBAL WARMING: A TALE OF NEW ORLEANS**
**SUSTAR writer for the COUNTERPUNCH and the SOCIALIST WORKER 2k5**
Lee-; //Katrina exposes Racism;// ZNET; August 31; htpp://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/5514//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">CAN’T SOLVE GLOBAL WARMING WITHOUT ADDRESSING RACISM – STAR THIS CARD ITS DISGUSTINGLY GOOD</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MANDELL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2k8</span>**//
//Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow;// Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth//; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289//


//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">WARMING IS JUST ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF INSTITUTIONAL RACISM</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MANDELL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2k8</span>**//
//Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow;// Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth//; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289//


//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DISMANTLING RACISM IS THE ONLY MEANS TO SOLVE WARMING</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">MANDELL </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif';">Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">2k8</span>**//
//Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow;// Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth//; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289


===Hegemony Turn=== 
**Hegemony is a WHITE system of power that allows the United States to go into other countries without any ethical problem. This creates a system of Messianic interventionism that creates terrible atrocities.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Martinot 2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Steve, lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs, “The Cultural Roots of Interventionism in the US,” Social Justice Vol. 30, No. 1 (2003), pp. 19-20]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Capitalism Case Turns</span>=== 
Theorization about capitalism re-entrenches the oppression of society by only focusing on<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> class struggles</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Fraser </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">'10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Nancy, Professor of Political and Social Science and professor of philosophy at The New School ;</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Marketization, Social Protection, Emancipation: Toward a Neo-Polanyian Conception of Capitalist Crisis,article in progress and discussed in Storrs Lecture series 2009. pg 5]</span>**


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Marxist theory and class-based struggles are rooted in patriarchy and overlook racism, sexism,</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> and nationalism.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Folbre 2001</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Nancy, Professor and former chair of of Economics at UMass; The Invisible Heart:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Economics and Family Values pg 211]</span>

=Specific Affirmative Rounds= 
==**Wake Forest Early Bird**== 
===**Round 2 -** **Affirmative against Edgemont MX - Eddi Fitzgerald**=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - Anthropocentrism Kritik, Case Defense on Hip Hop,
2AC - Permutation, Ingenuity, Hip Hop Good, Aff Solves
2NC - Anthropocentrism K
1NR - Case
1AR - Perm, Ingenuity, Aff Solves
2NR - Anthropocentrism K
2AR - Perm, Ingenuity, Aff Solves

Desicion: Negative

===**Round 3 -** **Affirmative against Mountain Brook MS - Steve Mancuso**=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - Capitalism, Framework
2AC - Capitalism, Framework
2NC - Framework
1NR - Capitalism
1AR - Capitalism, Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Desicion: Negative

===**Round 6 -** **Affirmative against Cathedral Preparatory HB - Amanda Pham**=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - T Staffed, Framework, Commodification (Capitalism) K
2AC - T Staffed, Framework, Capitalism
2NC - Framework
1NR - Capitalism
1AR - Capitalism, Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Decision: Negative

==Georgetown== 
===Round 1 - Affirmative against Pace Academy ES - Greg Rodarte=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - EcoJustice Kritik, Neoliberalism Kritik, T - Beyond the Mesosphere, Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Experientialism Turns
2AC - EcoJustice Kritik, Neoliberalism Kritik, T - Beyond the Mesosphere, Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Experientialism Turns
2NC - Framework, T
1NR - Forum Counter Advocacy, EcoJustice K
1AR - Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Ecojustice K
2NR - T
2AR - Framework

Decision: Negative

===Round 3 - Affirmative against Bishop Guertin ID - William Stokes=== 
1AC - We are the aliens Affirmative
1NC - Dialectical Materialism (Capitalism) Kritik
2AC - Cap answers
2NC - DM K
1NR - DM K
1AR - Cap answers
2NR - DM K
2AR - Cap answers

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 5 - Affirmative against Pace Academy BC - Stephen Weil=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - EcoJustice Kritik, T - Beyond the Mesosphere, Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Experientialism Turns
2AC - EcoJustice Kritik, T - Beyond the Mesosphere, Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Experientialism Turns
2NC - Framework, T, Counter Advocacy, Case Turns
1NR - EcoJustice K
1AR - Framework, Forum Counter Advocacy, Ecojustice K, T, Case Turns
2NR - Counter Advocacy
2AR - Counter Advocacy

Decision: Negative

==BCFL #1 @ BCC== 
===Round 1 - Affirmative against Mervo FR - Lawrence Grandpre=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - Blackness as a Country K
2AC - No Link, B/W binary turns, Perm
2NC - K
1NR - K
1AR - B/W Binary, Perm
2NR - K
2AR - B/W Binary, Perm

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 3 - Affirmative against River Hill DH - J.R. McDonogh=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - Development PIC, Cap K, Framework, Case Turns (Gender and Hip Hop Bad)
2AC - Development PIC, Cap K, Framework, Case Turns (Gender and Hip Hop Bad)
2NC - Framework, Case Turns
1NR - Development PIC
1AR - Development PIC, Framework, Case
2NR - Framework, Case
2AR - Framework, Case

Decision: Negative


==Bronx Science (New York City Invitational)== 
===Round 1 - Affirmative against River Hill DD -Steven Marcus=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affrimative
1NC - Framework
2AC - Framework
2NC - Framework
1NR - Framework
1AR - Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 3 - Affirmative against Stuyvesant KL -- Matt Malia=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens Affirmative
1NC - Buddhism K, Beyond the Mesosphere T, Framework (interest conversion)
2AC - Buddhism K, Beyond Mesosphere T, Framework
2NC - T
1NR - T
1AR - Perm of Buddhism, T
2NR - T
2AR - T

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 5 - Affirmative against Greenhill PS -- Ernie Querido=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Community PIC, Framework, Case (Hip Hop, Solvency Take Out)
2AC - Community PIC, Framework, Case (Hip Hop)
2NC - Framework, Case
1NR - Community PIC
1AR - Community PIC, Framework, Case (Hip Hop)
2NR - Community PIC, Framework
2AR - Community PIC, Framework

Decision: Negative (Community PIC)

===Doubles - Affirmative against Stuyvesant FL - Matt Malia, Tim West, Greg Sobetski=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - "Oppressed" PIC, Framework, Anthropocentrism K, Heg Good K
2AC - "Oppressed" PIC, Framework, Anthropocentrism K, Heg Good K
2NC - Framework, Heg Good K
1NR - "Oppressed" PIC
1AR - Framework, Heg Good K, "Oppressed" PIC
2NR - Heg Good K
2AR - Heg Good K

Decision: 3-0 Affirmative


==BCFL #2 @ Catonsville== 
===Round 1 - Affirmative against Baltimore City College JM - Tom Durkin=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Militarism Kritik, Case Defense, Framework
2AC - Militarism Kritik, Case Defense, Framework
2NC - Framework, Militarism Kritik
1NR - Case Defense
1AR - Militarism Kritik, Case Defense, Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 3 - Affirmative against Baltimore City College MN - Erika Vaughn=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Capitalism Kritik, Framework
2AC - Capitalism Kritik, Framework
2NC - Framework
1NR - Capitalism Kritik
1AR - Capitalism Kritik, Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Decision: Negative


==Capitol Fall Classic== 
===Round 1 - Affirmative against Baltimore City College BB - Nick Fiori=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Gender K, Framework
2AC - Case, Gender, Framework
2NC - Gender K
1NR - Framework
1AR - Gender, Framework
2NR - Gender
2AR - Gender

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 4 - Affirmative against Broad Run LM - Ameena Ruffin=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Framework, Cede the Political K, Hip Hop Bad
2AC - Hip Hop Good, Cede the Political K, Framework
2NC - Framework
1NR - Hip Hop Bad, Cede the Political K
1AR - Hip Hop Good, Cede the Political K, Framework
2NR - Cede the Political K
2AR - Cede the Political K

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 6 - Affirmative against National Cathedral ES - William Stokes=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - "Black" Framework, State Prison Industrial Complex CP
2AC - **"**Black" Framework, State Bad
2NC - State CP
1NR - "Black" Framework
1AR - State CP, "Black" Framework
2NR - State CP
2AR - State CP

Decision: Negative


===Octas - Affirmative against River Hill SS - Ameena Ruffin, Dayvon Love, Chris Kozak=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - US off Planet K
2AC - Case, US off Planet K
2NR - US off Planet K
1NR - US off Planet K
1AR - US off Planet K
2NR - US off Planet K
2AR - US off Planet K

Decision: Affirmative (3-0)


===Quarters - Affirmative against National Cathedral SS - Will Scott, William Stokes, Lawrence Grandpre=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Gender K, Primitivism K, Case
2AC - Gender, Prim, Case
2NC - Prim
1NR - Gender, Case
1AR - Gender, Prim, Case
2NR - Gender Case Turn, Prim
2AR - Gender Case Turn, Prim

Decision: Negative (0-3)

==Ohio Valley== 
===Round 2 - Affirmative against Vestavia Hills HS - Ian Lee=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens 1AC
1NC - Framework, Case
2AC - Case, Framework
2NC - Framework
1NR - Case
1AR - Case, Framework
2NR - Framework
2AR - Framework

Decision: Affirmative


===Round 3 - Affirmative against DuPont Manual DN - Randy Mitchell=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens
1NC - Citations PIC, Foucault K, Occupy Policy Debate, Case
2AC - Citations PIC, Foucault K, Occupy Policy Debate, Case
2NC - Case, Citations PIC
1NR - Foucault K
1AR - Perm, Foucault K, Citations PIC
2NR - Citations PIC, Case
2AR - Citations PIC, Case

Decision: Negative

===Round 5 - Affirmative against Saint Ignatius BL - Emily Conklin=== 
1AC - We are the Aliens
1NC - Nietzsche/Morality K, Framework, Case
2AC - Performative Contradiction, Morality, Framework, Case
2NC - Morality, Case
1NR - Framework
1AR - Performative Contradiction, Framework, Case, Morality
2NR - Morality, Case
2AR - Performative Contradiction, Morality, Case

Decision: Affirmative


=Specific Negative Rounds= 
==**Wake Forest Early Bird**== 
===**Round 1 -** **Negative against Berkley Prep GX - Matt Malia**=== 
1AC - The United States Congress should provide advance appropriations sufficient to fully fund acquisition of Advanced Extremely High Frequency communications satellite payloads.
Advantage 1: Military Communications - Production Breaks
Advantage 2: Transmission Security
Subpoint A: Net-Centric Warfare - Heg - Nuclear War
Subpoint B: Cyber Terrorism - Nuclear War - Extinction
Advantage 3: Aerospace
Scenario A: Deterrence - US-China War - Extinction
Scenario B: Economic Leadership - Nuclear Conflict

1NC - Whiteness Kritik, Case
2AC - Framework, Case Outweighs, Permutation
2NC - Whiteness K
1NR - Case
1AR - Framework, Permutation
2NR - Whiteness K
2AR - Framework, Permutation

Decision: Negative

===**Round 4 -** **Negative against Lexington KC - Stephen Pipkin**=== 
1AC - The United States federal government should fully fund the Constellation program.
Advantage 1: Leadership -
US-Sino Relations - Miscalc - US-Sino War - Extinction
US-Russo Relations - Extinction
Advantage 2: Industrial Base
Aerospace - Economy - Nuclear War

1NC - Whiteness K, Case
2AC - Case Outweighs, Framework, Whiteness Defense, Permutation
2NC - Whiteness K
1NR - Case
1AR - Framework, Case Outweighs, Permutation
2NR - Whiteness K, Case
2AR - Framework, Case Outweighs, Permutation

Decision: Negative

===**Round 5 -** **Negative against Vestavia Hills YK - Alexis Shklar**=== 
1AC - The United States Federal Government should fully fund the technology and operation of space asteroid mining.
Advantage 1: Environment - Green Tech - Extinction
Advantage 2: Economy - Tech, Jobs, Resources - Global Nuclear War - Terrorism - Extinction

1NC - Whiteness K, Case
2AC - Framework, Case Solves
2NC - Whitenss, Case
1NR - Framework
1AR - Framework
2NR - Whiteness, Case, Framework
2AR - Framework, Case

Decision: Negative

==Georgetown== 
===**Round 2 -** **Negative against Capitol Debate WEST BZ - Andrew Geathers**=== 
1AC - DSCVR
Advantage 1: Solar Storms
Scenario 1: Blackouts
Scenario 2: Economy - Nuclear War - Global Conflict
Advantage 2: Warming
Effective Data Key - Arctic Conflict - Russia - Nuclear Extinction
1NC - Ghost DA, Extinction Rhetoric Bad, Global Warming = Racist, Whiteness Kritik
2AC - Framework
2NC - Ghost DA, Case
1NR - Whiteness K
1AR - Framework
2NR - Case, Whiteness
2AR - Framework

Decision: Negative

===**Round 4 - Negative against Baltimore City College MN - Shree Awsare**=== 
1AC - Space Common
Advantage 1 - Neoliberalism
1NC - Earth Common Counter Advocacy, Whiteness K
2AC - Case Solves, Permutation, Link Defense, Conditionality
2NC - Earth Common Counter Advocacy
1NR - Whiteness K
1AR - Perm, Case Solves, Link Defense, Conditionality
2NR - Whiteness K
2AR - Conditionality, Permutation

Decision: Affirmative

===Round 6 - Negative against Bronx Science MG - Chris Randall=== 
1AC - ORS
Advantage 1:
Deterrence - China - Nuclear War
Advantage 2:
Economy - Hegemony
1NC - Heidegger DA, Whiteness K, Ghost DA, Case Turns
2AC - Framework
2NC - Ghost, Heidegger, Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Perm
2NR - Whiteness, Heidegger and Ghost = Impact Defense, Case Turns
2AR - Permutation

Decision: Negative

==BCFL #1 @ BCC== 
===Round 2 - Negative against Baltimore City College BB - Chris Lawrence=== 
1AC - Space Common
Advantage 1 - Neoliberalism
1NC - Earth Common Counter Advocacy, Whiteness K, Debate Agency Counter Advocacy, Development PIC, Cap Defense
2AC - Case Solves, Permutation, Link Defense, Conditionality
2NC - Earth Common Counter Advocacy, PIC, Debate Agency Counter Advocacy
1NR - Whiteness K, Case
1AR - Perm, Case Solves, Link Defense, Conditionality
2NR - PIC, Whiteness = Case Defense
2AR - Link Defense

Decision: Negative


==Bronx Science (New York City Invitational)== 
===Round 2 - Negative against University ZA - Sam Jaffee-Goldstein=== 
1AC - Space BMD
Advantage 1: Iran-Israel Conflict
Advantage 2: China-Taiwan -- Us intervention -- nuclear war -- extinction
Advantage 3: Hegemony - Extinction

1NC - Whiteness K, Development PIC, Case Defense (New Card)
2AC - Condo, PICs bad, Whiteness K, PIC
2NC - Case, PIC
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Condo, PICs Bad, Perms
2NR - Condo, PICs bad, PIC
2AR - Condo

Decision: Negative

===Round 4 -- Negative against Newark Science BV -- Peter Cancro=== 
1AC - SPS
Plan: The United States federal government should research, fund, launch, and develop Solar Powered Sattelites
Advantage 1: Poverty -- Energy Distribution
Advantage 2: Natural Disasters -- Disease -- Extinction
Advantage 3: Global Warming -- Extinction

1NC - Development PIC, Whiteness K, Case Turns (New Cards)
2AC - PICs Bad, FW, Whiteness K
2NC - PIC
1NR - Whiteness K
1AR - Kicked Warming, PICs bad, FW, Whiteness K
2NR - PICs Bad, PIC
2AR - PICs Bad, Permutation

Decision: Negative

===Round 6 - Negative against Saint Vincent De Paul FK -- Erich Helmreich=== 
1AC - Space BMD (Brilliant Pebbles)
Advantage 1: Detterence
Secnario 1: Syria
Scenario 2: Indo-Pak
1NC - Whiteness K, Ghost DA, Case
2AC - Whiteness, Ghost, Util
2NC - Ghost, Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Ghost, Case Whiteness
2NR - Case, Whiteness
2AR - Case, Whiteness

Decision: Negative

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Quarters - Negative against Saint Vincent dePaul FS - Matt Malia, Fernando Kirkman, Adam Jackson</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">1AC - Cosmic Egg (Deleuze and Guattari)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">1NC - Rhizome PIC, Whiteness K, Rhizomatic Politics Bad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2AC - Rhizome PIC, Whiteness K, Rhizomatic Politics Good</span>
2NC - Rhizome PIC, Rhizomatic Politics Bad
1NR - Whiteness K
1AR - Rhizome PIC, Whiteness K, Rhizomatic Politics Good
2NR - Rhizome PIC, Rhizomatic Politics Bad
2AR - Permutation, Rhizomatic Politics Good

Decision: Affirmative (2-1)
Affirmative: Fernando Kirkman, Matt Malia
Negative: Adam Jackson

==BCFL #2 @ Catonsville== 
===Round 2 - Negative against Reservoir RS - Lawrence Grandpre=== 
1AC - Suicidal Whiteness
Advantage 1: Whiteness
Advantage 2: Myth of the Model Minority
1NC: Development PIC, Disband NASA CP, Framework, Case Turns
2AC: Development PIC, Disband NASA CP, Framework, Case Turns
2NC: Development PIC, Framework
1NR: Disband NASA CP, Case Turns
1AR: Development PIC, Disband NASA CP, Framework, Case Turns
2NR: Framework, Case Turns (Both became case defense), Development PIC
2AR: Case, Development PIC

Decision: Negative

==Capitol Fall Classic== 
===Round 2 - Negative against River Hill HD - Stephen Popiotek=== 
1AC - ORS
1NC - Whiteness, Development PIC, Case
2AC - Whiteness, Development PIC, Case
2NC - Development, Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Condo, Whiteness, Development, Case
2NR - Condo, Development, Whiteness
2AR - Condo

Decision - Affirmative


===Round 3 - Negative against Atholton BZ - Alex Holguin=== 
1AC - DSCOVR
1NC - Whiteness, Case
2AC - Whiteness, Case
2NC - Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Whiteness
2NR - Case, Whiteness
2AR - Whiteness

Decision: Negative


===Round 5 - Negative against National Cathedral SS - Randy Mitchell=== 
1AC - DSCOVR (K Version) Climate Denialism advantage
1NC - Whiteness, Case
2AC - Whiteness, Case
2NC - Case
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Whiteness, Case
2NR - Case D, Whiteness
2AR - Whiteness

Decision: Negative
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">E. Framework is a reason to vote negative –</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">You must use your ballot to ratify constraints on discourse to preserve fairness</span>
==Ohio Valley== 
===Round 1 - Negative against Westminster MH - Jeff Buntin=== 
1AC - AIS
1NC - Whiteness, Case
2AC - Framework
2NC - Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Framework
2NR - Whiteness, Case
2AR - Framework

Decision: Negative

===Round 4 - Negative against Alpharetta PL - Ryan Nierman=== 
1AC - LPS
1NC - Whiteness, D+G, Case
2AC - Framework, Case, D+G
2NC - D+G, Framework
1NR - Case, Whiteness
1AR - Framework, Case, D+G
2NR - Whiteness, Case
2AR - Framework, Case

Decision: Affirmative


===Round 6 - Negative against Niles West NL - Rob Mullholand=== 
1AC - SPS (Poverty, Warming, Taiwan War)
1NC - Whiteness, Case
2AC - Case, Framework
2NC - Case, Whiteness
1NR - Whiteness
1AR - Case, Framework
2NR - Case, Whiteness
2AR - Poverty, Framework

Decision: Negative


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Ruth Lessl <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Shively</span></span>, Assoc Prof Polisci at Texas A&M, <span class="Heading3Char1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">2000</span></span> //Political Theory and Partisan Politics// p. 179</span>