[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Crestian 1AC== 
===Contention one is the Status Quo:=== 
===One, Mutually assured destruction is failing now because of new emerging threats –Two, currently unfunded SMD “brilliant pebbles” will protect US interests at home and abroad=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">May 7/7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Clifford D. May is the President of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. He also is the chairman of the policy committee of the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD), an international, non-partisan organization based in Washington D.C. A veteran news reporter, foreign correspondent and editor (at The New York Times and other publications), he has covered stories in more than two dozen countries, In 2006 he was appointed an advisor to the Iraq Study Group (Baker-Hamilton Commission) of the United States Institute of Peace, “MAD not a 21st century answer” July 7, 2011 Thursday, Lexis Nexis)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">During the Cold War, ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Shouldn't that be the definition of de-militarizing space?</span>


===<span style="text-align: center;">Plan</span>=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should deploy the ‘Brilliant Pebbles’ application of Space Missile Defense in low earth orbit for the purpose of ballistic missile defense.**
===Contention 2 is Solvency:=== 
===Space-based missile defense is possible and effective=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IFPA ‘9</span>, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (February 21, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Because space-based defenses offer ...</span> in inflation-adjusted 2008 dollars.
===Contention 3 is Hegemony:<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> We isolate two links through functionality</span>=== 
===US heg declining now – three key reasons=== 
**<span style="color: #1f1f1f;">Walt 6/10 – </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professor|professor]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_relations|international affairs]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">'s </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_F._Kennedy_School_of_Government|John F. Kennedy School of Government]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen M. Walt, “ What I Told The Navy This Year,” June 10, 2011, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/06/10/what_i_told_the_navy_this_year]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) mihe</span>

<span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 8pt;">The title of my talk was "...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">make most things go our way. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Missile defense is key to deterrence, U.S. hegemony, and space dominance</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IFPA ‘9</span>, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (February 21, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]
In order to address these ..<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> threats</span> of the twenty-first century security setting.
===2.Space mil key to heg and world economy=== 
Everett C. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span> is Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/sais_review/v026/26.1dolman.html, SAIS Review 26.1 163-175

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">No nation relies ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And so it should.</span>

===And Now is key – if we establish space dominance now, we can prevent a space arms race and escalatory war=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman ’10</span> [Everett Carl, Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies, Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” August 30, 2010, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?%20abstract|http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm? abstract]]_id= 1676919]
Mirror-imaging does not apply here....<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a future war in space is remote.</span>
===And - space weapon defense is critical to conflict stabilization in India/Pakistan, Iran, Taiwan, and Korea=== 
**Miller ‘2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the free republic and national review online (John J., the free republic, “Our 'Next Manifest Destiny': America should move to control space -- now, and decisively.” http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/714383/posts) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That may sound like ..</span>__, but also to defend against it.__

===Only hegemony can prevent conflicts from escalating to nuclear use=== 
Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 7</span>, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August/September 2007, The Hoover Policy Review, online: [[@http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]], accessed August 17, 2007
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The jostling for status ..simply make them </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">more catastrophic</span>**.**

===And, Even if they win that a world without hegemony is good, they still lose – getting there would mean massive transition wars across the globe=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 90 </span>(Joe, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and former Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard and one of the most influential and respected contemporary IR scholars, __pg 17)__
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Perceptions of change ...h</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">istory as we know it may end.</span>
===Contention 4 is Relations:=== 
===Scenario A:Europe=== 
===Key to US-European relations=== 
David **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yost</span>__**, Prof @ Naval Postgrad School, Ph.D. in IR from USC, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>__**, //International Affairs//, “Assurance and US extended deterrence in NATO”
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">NATO Europe (in contrast with,..recognize NATO’s resolve and capabilities. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-EU relations solve terrorism, proliferation, trade, and democracy </span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bereuter and Lis 2004</span> (Doug Bereuter, president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and John Lis, former director of the assembly's Defense and Security Committee in Brussels, Winter 03/04, Broadening the Transatlantic Relationship, Washington Quarterly, http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/016366003322596972)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">On both sides, ...</span>what it is in order to save it.

===Impact Scenario A: Terrorism=== 
===Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use – nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast-extinction=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Evans 10’ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Michael, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12 “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terrorists including al-Qaeda pose a ... briefcase bombs are available."</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact Scenario B: Democracy</span>=== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democracy prevents many scenarios of war and extinction</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Diamond ‘95</span>**
(Larry, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”, December, http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html)
This hardly exhausts the lists of threats ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">popular sovereignty, and openness</span>.

===Scenario B:Japan=== 
===Chinese threat causes Japanese support for BMD=== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Hitchens, 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information (Thersea, //U.S.-Sino Relations in Space: From “War of Words” to Cold War in Space?//, cs5_chapter2.pdf)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Likewise, </span>the Chinese action may spur ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> full and credible account of the test and future plans</span>

===With an equal and effective alliance, Japan and the US would be able to respond quickly and effectively to deter threats like North Korea and China and foster peace and stability in East Asia=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William E., Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army and former Fellow at the Institute for International Policy Studies, Tokyo, “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance”, January 2004, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf%20/|http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf //]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vish)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, as the partnership deepens,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">..will bring lasting stability to the region</span>.

===East Asia is the most likely scenario for nuclear war – unique nuclear capabilities and territorial, ideological and regional dispute=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dibb 01</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, emeritus professor of strategic and defense studies @ The Australian National University. “Strategic Trends - military and political in Asia” Naval College Review, Winter 2001. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_1_54/ai_75762211/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The areas of maximum danger ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when confronted with major crises.</span>

===Contention 5 is Economy:=== 
===__The aerospace industry__ will inevitably collapse due to retirements in 2015—increased investment is key to maintain competitiveness=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AIA 6/30/11</span>—Aerospace Industries Association, “AIA Calls for Continued Aerospace Investment” online: http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/aia_news/aia_calls_for_continued_aerospace_investment/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former FAA Administrator ...., including R&D funding for FAA and NASA.</span>
===Missile defense stimulates the US technology base and supports the aerospace industry=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IFPA 9 </span>– Chaired by Dr. Robert L Pfaltzgraff Jr., Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies, and Dr. William R. Van Cleave Professor Emeritus at Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University, 2009, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the Twenty-First Century” Independent Working Group, online: www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the very valuable...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">under the administration of President.</span>
===Aerospace industry key to the economy=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DOLETA 5</span> ( “America's Aerospace Industry: Identifying and Addressing Workforce Challenges” May 2005 www.doleta.gov/brg/indprof/aerospace_report.pdf)
__The aerospace industry ..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">facing a critical human capital crisis. </span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economy leads to war and these conflicts are part of a vicious cycle of suffering and escalation making the economy vital</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strauss-Kahn 9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Dominique, Manging Director of the IMF, International Monetary Fund, http://www.imf.org/external/np/speeches/2009/102309.htm)JFS </span>
Let me stress that <span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">....</span> partly because of weakened institutions.
===Contention 6 is Asteroids:=== 
===Not enough going on now about how to solve the asteroid problem.=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schweikart 10’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L. Chairman, B612 Foundation (Task Force Co-Chair)Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense October 6, T http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/490945main_10-10_TFPD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Findings on Planetary Defense ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> how to address such a situation</span>//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**
===Plan is best for deflecting asteroids.=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mellor 7’ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Felicity, Humanities Program, Imperial College, London. “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space.” SAGE Publications. [Online] ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the late 1980s, ...</span>the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), promised //<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">security.</span>//
===100% risk of extinction and risk of a strike-we control the magnitude and probability debate=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kunich 97(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lt. Col. John C. Kunich, Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base – “Planetary Defense: The Legality of Global Survival,” The Air Force Law Review, Volume 41 [41 A.F.L. rev. 119). [Online] LexisNexis) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">On the other hand</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">there is no doubt that they will happen again</span>//, sooner or later.
===Contention 7 is Space debris:=== 
===Plan is key to destroy space debris orbiting around the earth.=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wolfgang </span>**Schall,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">scientist at DLR Institute for Technical Physics, </span>**98**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DLR Institute for Technical Physics, “Removal of small space debris with orbiting lasers”, 4/27/98, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://spiedigitallibrary.org/proceedings/resource/2/psisdg/3343/1/564_1?isAuthorized=no]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marcus]</span>

__Space debris at ...o__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">r both options of the laser utilization. </span>

===Space Debris risks extinction.=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Timothy </span>**Ferris**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, American Physics Pulitzer Prize winner, </span>**97**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The New Yorker, “Is this the end”, 1/27/97, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dhushara.com/book/future/comet.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marcus]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the final night, </span>__debris__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">....</span> __almost certainly would not.__

===Contention 8 is Framework:=== 
===Extinction precedes ontology – existence is a prerequisite for the self=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wapner 3 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul Wapner is associate professor and director of the Global Environmental Policy Program at American University, DISSENT / Winter 2003]JFS</span>
All attempts to listen to nature ...., in some fashion, of environmental preservation.
===Retreat from state-based action causes increased repression and war – elites take over=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boggs 2k </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading ...antirationalism of Oakeshott’s Burkean muddling-through theories. </span>
===Violence existed before any of their K’s root causality claims=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Horgan 8</span> (John, Director of the Center Sci Write @ SIT, stwr.org/global-conflicts-militarization/we-will-abolish-war.html, 2/22, 7/11/11, OST)
We also need to come to grips with the ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">as high as 50 percent</span>.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]