=<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Table of Contents</span>= 
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#September-October|September-October]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#September-October-Affirmative|Affirmative]]

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#September-October-Negative|Negative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#November-December|November-December]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#November-December-Affirmative|Affirmative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#November-December-Negative|Negative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#January-February|January-February]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#January-February-Affirmative|Affirmative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#January-February-Negative|Negative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#March-April|March-April]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#March-April-Affirmative|Affirmative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#March-April-Negative|Negative]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#September-October]]September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
===__**Levinas AC:**__=== 

**OBSERVATION ONE IS THE ADVOCACY:** The affirmative recognizes the rights of animals by codifying the right not to be killed and the right not to be property. These rights are borne out of the philosophical duties humans have towards animals, as outlined in the AC. For example the right for animals not to be killed will be codified as people’s duties not to kill animals.

**OBSERVATION TWO IS FRAMEWORK:** <span style="color: #000000;">I value **justice.** T</span>he nature of our relationships with and obligations towards others form the basis of the requirements of justice.

<span style="color: #000000;">Previous philosophical theories try to distill justice into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. For example, Kantian ethics establishes human dignity or reflective practical reason as the basis for all ethical reasoning. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">Emmanuel Levinas and... my own image.</span>//

<span style="color: #000000;">Any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other,s. This also allows us to exclude anything outside of our defined interpretation of what the other is.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Anthony F. Beavers. “</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS;">Introducing Levinas to Undergraduate Philosophers</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">”. </span>This paper was originally presented as a colloquy paper to the Undergraduate Philosophy Association at the University of Texas at Austin, 1990. http://faculty.evansville.edu/tb2/PDFs/UndergradPhil.pdf

<span style="color: #000000;">//If we can... on the environment//.</span>

Thus we must respect the other.

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftnref|A]]<span style="color: #000000;">nthony F. Beavers. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

//If the otherness... look at God.//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> the AFF **burden** is to prove that animals are an other worthy of ethical consideration.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Further,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> prefer this framework for three additional reasons:</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">**First**, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounter with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will so we could not distinguish our own autonomous action from the decisions of the other. This makes it impossible to concpetualize our autonomy.</span>

**Second,** abstract ideas cannot constitute ethics. This approach towards ethics fails because it has no impact on the way we actually interact with people in the real world and instead, only to refers the abstract idea of a person.
<span style="color: #001d8d; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.amazon.com/Catherine-Chalier/e/B001K7A0UW/ref=ntt_athr_dp_pel_1|Catherine Chalier]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;"> [</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Catherine Chalier is a philosopher and a French translator, author of several books on the relationship between Hebrew thought and philosophy. She specializes in the work of Emmanuel Levinas, it directs the critical edition with Rodolphe Calin to IMEC1.</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;"> ] </span><span style="color: #001d8d; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_2?_encoding=UTF8&sort=relevancerank&search-alias=books&field-author=Jane%20Marie%20Todd|Jane Marie Todd]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;"> (Translator). </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">What Ought I to Do?: Morality in Kant and Levinas. </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 6pt;">Cornell University Print (May 2002). </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__intelligence is in the service… assigned to theoretical thought.__** </span>


<span style="color: #000000;">**Third**, ethics must accept others because we can never fully understand them. When we encounter the other, it has an independent perspective that eludes my understanding so we have no choice but to respect its otherness</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//Levinas suggests in...a power exercised.//

<span style="color: #000000;">My thesis and sole contention is that a proper understanding of the other requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>
Animals constitute an other because we are unable to truly and fully understand them.

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">It is useful...types of beings.</span>//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Further</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, differences between humans and animals are irrelevant. This dichotomy would thematize and totalize the other**<span style="color: #000000;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftn7|.]]</span>**</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Our humanity is...of active invitation.//

__**STANDING AFF**__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">STANDING AFF</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">I affirm and value **Justice.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Justice is the normative term we employ to describe the system of obligations and entitlements people have in relation to one another. Thus**,** justice and rights emerge as socially constructed tools.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">David Hume, __An Inquiry Considering the Principles of Morals__, in the version presented at www.earlymoderntexts.com (1758), p. 8 .</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"Let's suppose that... list of virtues"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moreover, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">conceptions of justice are context-dependent.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Jurgen Habermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 36-37.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"A sentence or... all future obligations"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">any normative claim necessarily relies on an appeal to a higher order principle.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Hans Kelsen—1978. [A</span><span style="color: #101010; display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">ustrian jurist and philosopher of law]. Pure Theory of Law. University of California Press, pp. 193.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"A norm referring... the higher norm"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">the validity of any normative order is grounded in certain foundational, socially constructed norms. Constitutional and legal structures must form this basis.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Hans Kelsen—1978. [A</span><span style="color: #101010; display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">ustrian jurist and philosopher of law]. Pure Theory of Law. University of California Press, pp. 193.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"To understand the...a basic norm"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">**Third,** justice can only be ensured through consistency with the law</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"The greatest fear...to the law"</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Fourth, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">justice would //not// entail that gross violations of rights are permitted under justice simply because precedent for such practices exist. If certain norms are inconsistent with more fundamental legal norms, then they are antithetical to justice because they would violate other basic norms.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">the standard is **Maintaining Consistency With Legal Norms.**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION TWO IS INHERENCY:</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Status quo</span>//</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">legal practice denies animals standing in civil court. Although the Endangered Species Act purports to establish broad procedures to protect animals, it’s extremely difficult to bring anything to court since the plaintiff has to demonstrate that he or she has suffered ‘injury in fact.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“The Supreme court…in the subject”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION THREE IS THE PLAN:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS WILL CLARIFY AND ACCORDINGLY AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT TO AFFORD PROTECTED ANIMALS LEGAL STANDING UNDER THE CITIZEN SUIT PROVISION. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d; display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Due to varying…citizen suit provision”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION FOUR IS SOLVENCY: </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Explicitly granting animals standing in civil court is the only way to align legal practice with legal norms.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">denying an animal’s standing in civil court is inconsistent with the legislative intent of congress in the ESA.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Rejecting the possibility…the Act indicated”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">a proper reading of the language used in the ESA clearly indicates that animals should have standing in civil court based on the fact that they exist within U.S. jurisdiction.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Despite the inclusive…citizen suit provision.”</span>


__**CAPABILITIES AFF**__
Section One is Epistemology
Value: Justice

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Daniels 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">describes the model of reflective equilibrium</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/]]</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">The method of</span>__**...<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> are still defeasible </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Moral judgment about a particular case would be justified if it was consistent with the rest of our beliefs on due reflection and after appropriate revisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Prefer this method of justifying a theory of justice for three reasons:</span>

1.<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> Reasoning from first principles or definitions is not adequate to justify normative theories. **Rawls** </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Philosophers commonly try</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">to be justified.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Reflective Equilibrium avoids the problematic epistemology of foundationalist accounts.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> Daniels </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/]]</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Because we are</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">told about them.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">2.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Trying to reason from first principles gets in the way of developing a substantive conception of justice. **Rawls 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506-507</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Therefore**__we do..__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">.theory of justice.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">And </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Rights are based off of multiple norms, not one reason. Therefore, we must look to a theory that takes all norms into account. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Kelch</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Kelch, Thomas G. 1999. [Professor of Law At Whitter Law School] //The Role of the Rational and the Emotive in a Theory of Animal Rights// 1999 Boston College Law School, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review. </span>


**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">When we ask</span>__**...<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">of various ingredients.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">3. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Some form of consensus is necessary to engage in discourse. **Rawls 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;">John Rawls. 1987. //The Idea of an Overlapping Consensus.// </span><span style="font-family: Code2000; font-size: 16px;">Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Spring, 1987), pp. 1-25.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Consider why: **__the__**</span>...**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">of political justice.</span>__**

Section 2 is Framework


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> describes the capabilities approach to justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/]]</span>>.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Within moral and</span>...**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">income or wealth)</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">furthers</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/]]</span>>.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">According to the</span>...**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> not human functionings.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus the standard</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> is promoting dignified and flourishing life. Prefer it for two reasons:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> the capabilities approach is most consistent with reflective equilibrium. **Nussbaum 1**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>
Although such a... make them only

**Second,**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> varying need for resources based on differential capabilities is an omnipresent aspect of moral life **Nussbaum 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">My capabilities approach... in public places</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">showing we should respect animal entitlements to a flourishing and dignified life means that we should recognize their rights. **Nussbaum 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 336-337</span>

This is a... unfair to them.

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">So, the affirmative burden is to show that the capabilities approach recognizes the moral interests of animals.</span>

**Section 3: The Capabilities Approach Applies to Animals**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> animals are capable of living a dignified life, which humans often deny them. **Nussbaum 4**</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 326</span>

**__Nonhuman animals are... court boldly does__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">**Second**, animal lives inspire awe and wonder like human lives, suggesting we ought to value their flourishing.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> Nussbaum 5</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>

**__The same attitude... the capabilities approach__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Third,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;"> affording dignity to diverse ways of life, including those marked as “animalistic” in human beings, suggest that we ought to extend moral respect to non-human animals. **Nussbaum 6**</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 356</span>
**__In chapter 3... the whole idea__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">the pervasive effect of humans on animals requires strong positive obligations. **Nussbaum 7**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>
In the human... make for themselves

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Nussbaum 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">concludes the AC</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 350-351</span>
Put another way... off or fruitless

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
===Hume NC=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **justice.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Justice is characterized by its usefulness to the support of a society. The only conditions under which justice actually operates are when there are conflicting claims that can be successfully resolved.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Arthur Kuflik. “Hume on Justice to Animals, Indians and Women.” April 1998. Hume Studies Volume XXIV, Number I, pp. 53-70. [[http://www.humesociety.org/hs/issues/v24n1/kuflik/kuflik-v24n1.pdf]].</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Hume, the …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">all these extremes” [EPM 1881.) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Although we may be bound by rules of morality against harming animals, justice would not constrain our actions against them because humans easily control them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">David Hume. “An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals.” 1777. </span>
**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Were there a …</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> I leave it to others to determine.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C2. The enforcement mechanism of justice over animals would literally be impossible and would thus not be useful to include them in such systems. </span>

OV:
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Systems of justice must be consistent with human psychology because</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">1. It is irrational to try to use reason to gauge thing which reason cannot control. **CS Lewis**</span>
**//<span style="color: red; font-family: TimesNewRomanPS; font-size: 6pt;">Priestesses in the Church? </span>//****<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. Lewis </span>****<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS; font-size: 6pt;">[Originally published under the title "Notes on the Way," in Time and Tide, Vol. XXIX (August 14, 1948), it was subsequently reprinted with the above title in the posthumous //God in the Dock// book, published by Wiilliam B. Erdmanns, Grand Rapids, MI).</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">"I should like Balls infinitely better'...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> is the better </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">he knows this.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">"</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">2. Ought implies can</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">3. </span>Justice cannot guide human action or act as a system to evaluate our actions if it is divorced from the way humanity actually acts.

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Thus Hume’s concept of justice alone provides a plausible explanation of how justice can mesh with our understanding of human nature. **Churchill**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">"The genius of</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__Hume's...__** </span>the human predicament."
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">He continues</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"The advantage </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">of ... "psychologically unrealistic" (Hope, 1989, p , 1 4 7 )."</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12px;">Animal Welfare PIC</span>**==== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) IS THE TEXT: Justice requires the evaluation of animal welfare. This means I co-opt all benefits of the aff because I am allowed to do good things for animals such as __in order to prevent extinction.__</span>**

__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) IS THE COMPETITION: </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lubinski</span>**[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> draws the distinction </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">between animals rights and welfare.</span>__

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt; text-align: justify;">Briefly, one might understand …</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">currently stands</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span><span style="color: #232f7b; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[lxxi]</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) IS THE NET BENEFITS </span>**</span>
__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Animal rights entails inviolable constraints on our actions towards animals. **Francione[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]** ‘96:</span>__



__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">The theory of</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> animal …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;"> activities cause animals to suffer.</span>__


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AIDS DA</span></span>


__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS UNIQUENESS: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Animal testing is currently the driving force behind the push towards a cure for HIV/AIDS. **Smith[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]** </span>__


__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">To gauge the value … the HIV virus from multiplying.</span>__

__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE LINK:</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> The implementation of animal rights requires an end to the use of animals for human purposes, including medical testing. </span>__





__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE INTERNAL LINK: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Lack of animals for animal testing severely inhibits HIV/AIDS research. This is empirically verified. **Henderson[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]** ‘04:</span>__



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> GLOBAL </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">shortage …</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">equivalent of HIV.</span>**



__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE IMPACT: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Left unchecked, HIV/AIDS causes extinction. **Zimmerman[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]** ‘03:</span>__



__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Then came </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[Lush tropical …. is the virus</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">” (//A Dancing Matrix,// by Romin Marantz Henig).</span>__


<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">A) is Interpretation: Welfare PICs Good</span>


__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) violation</span>__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Standards:</span>__

__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 1. Equitable Division of Ground:</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **Sunstein** and **Nussbaum[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]**</span>__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">If we understand ―…</span>**__//<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;"> of cruelty to animals.</span>//__



__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Real-World Decision Making:</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Skiermont[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span>**__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Another core argument …. avoid negative arguments.</span>__


__D) is the Voter__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Education is more important than fairness. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Strait </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and **Wallace[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]** </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Why debate?</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Some ….</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to make decisions.</span>**


__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **Giroux[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]** </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Any discourse about …. important public spheres.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Joseph Lubinski—2004. [QUALS]. Introduction to Animal Rights (Second Edition). Animal Legal and Historical Center, Michigan State University College of Law. JS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] Gary L. Francione—1996. [Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law and Philosophy, Rutgers University School of Law—Newark. Co-director of the Rutgers University Animal Rights Law Center]. Animal Rights and Animal Welfare. Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 48, pp. 397. JS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] Wesley Smith—2010. [A</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">ttorney for the Anti-Euthanasia Task Force].</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Rat is Pig is Dog is Boy. Encounter Books. MB. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] Mark Henderson—19 August 2004. [Science Correspondent]. AIDS research hit by shortage of test animals. The Sunday Times.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] Barry E. Zimmermand and David J. Zimmerman—2003. [S</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">cience teachers and authors of //Why Nothing Can Travel Faster Than Light . . . and Other Explorations in Nature's Curiosity Shop//]. Killer germs: microbes and diseases that threaten humanity. McGraw Hill Professional: Medical.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] Cass R. Sunstein and Martha Craven Nussbaum—2004. [Sunstein is an American Legal Scholar, particularly in Constitutinal, Administrative, and Environmental Law, Administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. Harry Kalven Visiting Professor at University of Chicago Law School. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Nussbaum is The Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago Law School and the Author of numerous books and articles on Animal Rights]. Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions. Oxford University Press, pp. 5. JS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]] Paul Skiermont [University of Kentucky Debate Coach], “The Affirmative's Juvenile Complaint: In Defense of Plan-Inclusive Counterplans,” </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Shock, The Shame, The Horror: Juvenile Crime </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(web) 1996. AB. http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Skiermont1996JuvenileCrime.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]] The scope of negative fiat and the logic of decision making. L. Paul Strait George Mason University and Brett Wallace Writes: George Washington University. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]] Henry Giroux, former professor of education at Miami University, “The Urban Debate League and the Politics of Possibility,” 2006. </span>

===Aristotelian NC=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">I negate, and value **justice**</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The adoption of a normative system cannot be justified using techniques of rationalization. **Reader**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains;</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">What is the alternative? …</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">we need to go.</span>__**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">We start with individuals in a species or group to generate natural rules, and then use those facts to judge the rest of the individuals. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thompson[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In speaking of … </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">at a bonzai exhibition. </span>
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. **Geach[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state my first … thesis, illegitimate.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Standard: **Consistency With One’s Natural Purpose**</span>


<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">I contend that the granting of animals rights is inconsistent with human’s natural purposes. Humans are omnivores. The Vegetarian Research Group. [[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Archeological Record .. and health concerns.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A strict vegetarian diet leads to B-12 deficiency. </span>[[http://www.webmd.com/sid-kircheimer|**__Sid Kirchheimer__**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Researchers have long ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> B12 deficiency.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Soran Reader. “New Directions in Ethical Naturalism.” [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/27504153]]</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364 Published by: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Springer.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/%7Emthompso/apprehending.pdf|http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]Vegetarian Resource Group (Adapted from a talk by John McArdle, Ph.D.), “Humans are Omnivores,” article originally published in the May/June 1991 edition of the Vegetarian Journal</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] [Sid Kirchheimer has been a health and medical writer and editor for two decades. A former newspaper reporter, he has written or edited 15 health books, including the 2 million-copy best-seller, //The Doctors Book of Home Remedies II//. He has launched two newsletters, and directed web sites for doctors and patients. In addition to working for WebMD since 2002, he has contributed to dozens of leading publications and web sites. ] June 18, 2003. “</span>**<span style="color: #698b25; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Vegetarian Diet and B12 Deficiency </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Vitamin B12 Deficiency Seen in All Types of Vegetarians”. http://www.webmd.com/food-recipes/news/20030618/vegetarian-diet-b12-deficiency.</span>**
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#November-December]]November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#November-December-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
====<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Genocide AC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Moral statements are simply an expression of a state of mind and cannot amount to any more than that</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Gibbard[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] </span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Such an analysis might be called "expressivistic." ….to accept permits.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means that </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">the function of</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> moral statements is not meant to express true or false claims, but instead serve the purpose of expressing our preferences and providing a medium through which to reconcile them. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Blackburn</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7.5pt;">Obviously many …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> propositional judgment is //for//. </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prefer</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> this ethical interpretation for three reasons.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> all other accounts of ethics are subject to infinitely regressive justification. I can always ask why is this system of ethics is good or why one metaethic should be preferred over another. Only characterizing our moral judgments in terms of expressing our beliefs can we escape it. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Railton et al[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Moore had discovered ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> R really is good. </span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Railton et al.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> continues on how characterizing morality in terms of simply an expression of attitude we can escape this issue because this system of ethics does not require this demand.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Wittgenstein, for one, …presence of conflicting interests.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, there is no faculty which perceives moral facts in the physical world. **Mackie[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even more important, however, …. objectivist is compelled to resort.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the idea that something could ‘exist’ in a non-physical sense is absurd. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Ayer</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A similar mistake has been … exposed in the same way.</span>



**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Third, </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">we cannot rationally justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]** explains that strong rationalism fails both because it undermines its own legitimacy and requires a “view from no-where” to objectively determine facts.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything …</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> would have to bow to.</span>__**



**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> the affirmative advocacy is that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">there are expressed norms that individuals ought to take action to prevent genocide and assist those in danger of genocide. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> Genocide is recognized as an international evil that must prevented at all costs. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Even the word genocide was created to signal a new evil that transcends all other forms of evil. **Power[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In 1948 …</span>__****__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;"> "hierarchy of horribles.”</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> citizens of the United States uniquely have an obligation to prevent and fight genocide as there is cultural revulsion to genocide. **Power 2[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Clinton said it. </span>__**

**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed,</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;"> we should not mistake inaction for compliancy with genocide. Most people would have preferred that America had taken action against Genocide. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Power 3[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">But this does not explain …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in both places. </span>__**




----
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Allan Gibbard. </span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 9pt;">An Expressivistic Theory of Normative Discourse. The University of Chicago Press. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381066]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">2Simon Blackburn, “All Souls Night” (2011), http://www.phil.cam.ac.uk/~swb24/PAPERS/Allsoulsnight.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] Darwall, Gibbard, and Railton (1997). **Toward Fin de siecle Ethics: Some Trends.** //The Philosophical Review,// Vol. 101, No. 1, Philosophy in Review: Essays on Contemporary Philosophy. (Jan., 1992), pp. 115-189.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J.L Mackie. Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong Chapter 1 “The subjectivity of Values”. Page 38.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A.J. Ayer [was a professor at oxford]. //LANGUAGE, TRUTH, and LOGIC.// 1936 [AK]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. BG.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Persistence of Genocide" by Samantha Power. //War Crimes//. Henny H. Kim, Ed. Contemporary Issues Companion Series. Greenhaven Press, **2000.** Reprinted, with permission, from "Never Again: The World's Most Unfulfilled Promise," by Samantha Power. Oiginally published by //Frontline// on its website "The World's Most Wanted Man," at www.pbs.org/frontline/shows/karadzic/genocide/neveragain.html.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Persistence of Genocide" by Samantha Power. //War Crimes//. Henny H. Kim, Ed. Contemporary Issues Companion Series. Greenhaven Press, **2000.** Reprinted, with permission, from "Never Again: The World's Most Unfulfilled Promise," by Samantha Power. Oiginally published by //Frontline// on its website "The World's Most Wanted Man," at www.pbs.org/frontline/shows/karadzic/genocide/neveragain.html.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Persistence of Genocide" by Samantha Power. //War Crimes//. Henny H. Kim, Ed. Contemporary Issues Companion Series. Greenhaven Press, **2000.** Reprinted, with permission, from "Never Again: The World's Most Unfulfilled Promise," by Samantha Power. Oiginally published by //Frontline// on its website "The World's Most Wanted Man," at www.pbs.org/frontline/shows/karadzic/genocide/neveragain.html.</span>

==== ==== 
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kant AC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality must be based in humanity’s conception of moral personhood. Without doing so, we could never bridge the ought-ought gap, meaning that people don’t have a reason that they ought to do what they are compelled to do by morality. **Strom[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now, the ―ought-ought… about good people.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Just because people act as though they ought to be selfish, or ought to harm others doesn’t meant this fulfills the ought-ought gap. </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">CS Lewis[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If you take a</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">…</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> to behave differently.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead, **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn3|****[3]****]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">explains how people act in accordance with the way they perceive themselves. </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">A human</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">being</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">’s</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">…</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">label “act identification.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Humans derive their reasons for acting from their unique perspective and their ability to separate their instincts from reason. **Korsgaard[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">But </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the human …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> it cannot commit itself or go forward.</span>

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">And, Velleman 2[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> explains why questioning the authority of reasons just purports its own significance.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, … a reason to act for reasons. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> as rational agents, which seek justification for all actions, the moral rules we determine for ourselves are universal. **Engstrom[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we saw,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> of the //we// of practical knowledge. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **consistency with universal maxims**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All humans set ends for themselves, as the very nature of being a person requires us to seek out certain end states. **Engstrom 2[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything … out through its specification.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> since we all have our own ends and desires, willing that people help you achieve those ends means that you necessarily must also help others achieve their own ends. **Engstrom 3[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Kant explains how …would need assistance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Engstrom 4[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">continues how living in pursuit of your own happiness ultimately leads to a contradiction in universal maxim, even if pursuing your own happiness is bound by not harming others.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">With these …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> but not his. </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational agents cannot will a maxim of non-beneficence because we all require assistance. However, this duty is not couched in any pity or compassion felt for the other person, the duty is based on simply a contradiction in universal maxim regardless of emotions. **Wood[[home#_ftn10|**[10]**]]**</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Participation</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">along with love</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">… **__we actively do.__**</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. Lewis Mere Christianity1943 Scan and OCR by Copper Kettle aka T.A.G, 2003-12-21. Yekaterinburg.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Stephen Engstrom – 2009, //The Form of Practical Knowledge// [Harvard University Press, 2009], pg. 122-123. BG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]] Allen Wood. 2008. //Kantian Ethics.// Cambridge University Press. MO.</span>
== == 
<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Kant AC V2</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ethics must necessarily be based upon the ideal conception of a human. Only by looking at the ideal natural form of a human can we derive ethics as good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. **Geach**</span>[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state my ….my thesis, illegitimate.)</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, the form of the human cannot be identified in terms of empirical observation but instead must be grounded in a priori characteristic if it is to be meaningful. **Thompson**</span>[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The a priori character ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> character the latter</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead, we escape this empiricist problem by reflecting on the a priori form of the I. **Thompson 2**</span>[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Skip now to</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__….__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> amount of space. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This allows us to piece together a conception of ethics based upon a universal ideal of humanity. **Thompson 3**</span>[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Let us piece …non-empirical subject term.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And the ideal form of a human must follow the categorical imperative, which mandates that all humans follow a universal moral rule because,</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">determination of the ideal form of the human is a judgment is based upon a self-reflective, a priori judgment. Such a judgment must be able to apply universally.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">this generates the idea of an ideal person based upon the reflective judgments of what constitutes the human form. Such a system results in the development of the categorical imperative. **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Categorical Imperative ….really can come true.</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **consistency with universal maxims.**</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Additionally,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> prefer this standard because the structure of reason itself mandates universal maxims. Only practical reason can avoid the infinite regress that all other ethical theories fail to escape. **Velleman 2**</span>[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, …. act for reasons. </span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> as rational agents, which seek justification for all actions, the moral rules we determine for ourselves are universal. **Engstrom**</span>[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we saw,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational …</span>__**//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">we </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">of practical knowledge.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> I contend that all humans must will a maxim of beneficence in order to be consistent with universal maxims. Any law that does not require assistance to those in need will ultimately lead to a contradiction in our universal maxims.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All humans set ends for themselves, as the very nature of being a person requires us to seek out certain end states. **Engstrom 2**</span>[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything … through its specification.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus**,** since we all have our own ends and desires, willing that people help you achieve those ends means that you necessarily must also help others achieve their own ends. **Engstrom 3**</span>[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Kant explains how … would need assistance.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">living in pursuit of your own happiness ultimately leads to a contradiction in universal maxim, even if pursuing your own happiness is bound by not harming others. **Engstrom 4**</span>[[home#_ftn10|**[10]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">With these considerations in ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> not his.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]] Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]] Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]] Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[10]]] Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#November-December-Negative]]</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Abstract Morality K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE FRAMEWORK: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Concerns over how we debate are prior to what we debate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Link:</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">The AC’s framework discusses moral in terms of an abstract ethical theory instead of terms of what specific agents should do. However, they do not discuss ethics in terms of what specific actors such as firemen, policemen, or government agents should do.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Impact: </span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, Moral disagreement pervades society. In the real world we have no way of determining which ethical theory is true. This means the process of philosophical education is ultimately self-defeating and produces a bunch of skeptics. **Baier 1[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The obvious trouble …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> What guidance is that? </span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, No reform in the system can solve this problem. Moral disagreement begins because we live in a pluralistic society with different types of values. **Baier 2**</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Most of us do …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> in a moral theory. </span>__**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In fact,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> instead of providing those who wish to learn about philosophy a new system on which to base actions, we instead destabilize the scholar’s previous moral beliefs and offer no guidance on finding a suitable alternative. **Baier 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The array of …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> deliberately devised.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Philosophical instruction shakes our faith in our own moral intuitions. The first thing we learn in philosophy is that we need a rational justification for moral theories. This means we can’t trust our intuition that, for example, killing someone is wrong on face. **Baier 4**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A significant fact … mimic legal systems.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Baier 5 continues</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Moral theorizers usually ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">encouraged to cultivate.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">society is not perfect and we cannot actually access the ideal worlds created by our moral theories. This means we have to find ways to transition to this perfect society; however, there is no one to judge when it is correct when it is to take those actions as those judges may be corrupt or imperfect themselves. **Baier** **6**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This lengthy insistence … understand our way around.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral rules are often too vague to actually guide decisions and even if they were specific enough people will bend the rules to justify their skeptical, self-interested beliefs. **Baier 7**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Whatever we say …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> not fellow-persons</span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) is the Alternative: </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead of conceptualizing ethics in terms of abstract theories, we must instead look at the moral implications of a specific actor taking an action. **Baier 8**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">What does …links the bits together. </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Baier 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> concludes the kritik</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">What</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> I have …. and definite ones.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Annette Baier. “Postures of the Mind.”</span>

===<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Kant NC</span>=== 
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">The value is morality as implied by the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only place in which a moral obligation could actually be derived from is reason. We as humans have the ability to question any other source of authority by asking why they are an authority</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">. **Velleman[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** </span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, ...reason to act for reasons. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, the burden is to prove that practical reason can provide a basis for an obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Kantianism does not derive rights or moral laws because it relies on morality being self-legislating. This type of ethics relies on us giving reasons to ourselves for our moral rules. **However,** self-legislation cannot actually provide moral rules as there is no absolute authority in giving a law to oneself. **Ridely and Alvarez[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We have noted, in the ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> any obvious content.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C2. It is impossible ever to force someone to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do. This creates and ought-ought gap in ethics. **Strom[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now, the ―ought-.... about good people.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus as we can always question why we ought to do what we ought to do, there is no reason there is an actual obligation to help others. This offense also links into the affirmative framework because there is no reason for people actually to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do under the aff.</span>



----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Maria Alvarezand Aaron Ridley [</span><span style="color: #4f4f4f; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">University of Southampton]. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Concept of Moral Obligation: Anscombe contra Korsgaard.”</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=PHI|Philosophy ]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, 82: 543-552. The Royal Institute of Philosophy. 2007. BG.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>

Answers to Virtue Ethics (from a Kantian Perspective)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The form of the human cannot be identified in terms of empirical observation but instead must be grounded in a priori characteristic if it is to be meaningful. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[1] Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.” </span><span style="color: #364452;">[[@http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The a priori character...</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">character the latter</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Instead, we escape this empiricist problem by reflecting on the a priori form of the I. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[1] Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.” </span><span style="color: #364452;">[[@http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Skip now to....</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">amount of space. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">This allows us to piece together a conception of ethics based upon a universal ideal of humanity. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[1] Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.” </span><span style="color: #364452;">[[@http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Let us piece...</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">non-empirical subject term.</span>__**
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#January-February]]January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative </span>== 
==Hobbes AC== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality** </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Black’s law</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> dictionary[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">defines permissible as:</span>


**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Allowed; … may be done</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The US Model Penal Code[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] defines deadly force as:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"**__Force that the …serious bodily injury.__**" </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality is characterized by the social contract. Moral uncertainty and moral disagreement lead to violence within the state of nature, which is irresolvable. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Renzo[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As Gregory Kavka has persuasively …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the state of nature.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, to escape this violence in the state of nature, we form a social contract to protect ourselves and everyone must give power to a centralized government. **Hobbes[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lastly**__,__**</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> the agreement …</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">besides, his SUBJECT.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the agreed upon social norms cannot apply in all situations. The government does not have the ability to respond to all situations. Such imminent situations call for self-defense. **Gauthier[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now I think Fletcher …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">protection of the law.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> an individual may never give up the means to self-preservation as it is the very foundation of the social contract in the first place. **Hobbes**</span>



**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Not All Rights …</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">were to be interpreted.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the affirmative burden is to prove that domestic violence is immanent while the negative must prove that it is not.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, prefer this ethical interpretation for two more reasons</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Only a system of ethics which correlates to the desires of actual people has legitimacy since having a reason necessarily entails that you have a concern or desire relating to that reason in the first place. **Goldman[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">All internalists about</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">defense it can offer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, only a system in which actors come together and agree upon a social contract makes sense. Actors need to be motivated themselves to form maxims, they cannot just conform to the moral law that exists independent of the agreements they make. **<span style="color: black;">Zupančič[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span>**</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">What is inadmissible is ….achieves its determination</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The my sole contention is that victims of domestic abuse have no other option than resorting to deadly force.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) **Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The government is ineffective at protecting victims from their abusers. Even if the victim manages to secure a restraining order their safety is far from certain. **Burke**</span>[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even if someone does …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> no safe options.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">249</span>



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**



**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The victim be- lieves …</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> ex- tensive safety planning.9</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) **Psychological barriers**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The psychological violence done against spouses creates an image of themselves in which they have nowhere to run. It seems violence could erupt again at any moment. **The Supreme Court of Kansas in State v. Hundley[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Wife beating is steeped …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> from the torture.</span>__**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Victims often believe their abuser when they promise that they will change. This means they cannot act until the threat is about to occur. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]</span>



**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The batterer’s promises … an inconsequential incident.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cultural Barriers</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Many victims don’t seek help from abuse because of real and perceived societal barriers in terms of race and culture. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**[[home#_ftn12|**[12]**]]



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Cultural defenses may … use and success rates.13</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) Financial Barriers. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Women often cannot leave their abuser because of financial dependency. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinez</span>**[[home#_ftn13|**[13]**]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Another brick in …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> housing, exposure to drugs, gangs, etc.  </span></span>






----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Blacks Law Dictionary. 2nd Edition.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(1962))[[http://www.legalupdateonline.com/4th/140]]. Model Penal Code.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">MASSIMO RENZO STATE LEGITIMACY AND SELF-DEFENCE (Accepted 4 May 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] Thomas Hobbes. </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Leviathan.Kindle Edition. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] David Gauthier –[ Department of Philosophy, University of Pittsburgh.]1996 The University of Pittsburgh Law Review. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. [SELF-DEFENSE AND RELATIONS OF DOMINATION: MORAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES ON BATTERED WOMEN WHO KILL: SELF-DEFENSE AND THE REQUIREMENT OF IMMINENCE: COMMENTS ON GEORGE FLETCHER'S DOMINATION IN THE THEORY OF JUSTIFICATION AND EXCUSE]. 57 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 615</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] “</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Reason Internalism.” </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Alan H. Goldman. //Philosophy and Phenomenological Research//</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Vol. 71, No. 3 (Nov., 2005), pp. 505-532. Published by: </span><span style="color: #1e4575; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ips|International Phenomenological Society]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. Article Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/40040883]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Zupančič, Alenka. //Ethics of the Real: Kant, Lacan//. London: Verso, 2000. Print. AS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]] Alafair S. Burke [Associate Professor, Hofstra University School of Law. B.A., Reed College; J.D., Stanford Law School] Rational Actors, Self-Defense, and Duress: Making Sense, not Syndromes, out of the Battered Woman. 2002. North Carolina Law Review – Volume 81. Pg 270</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[10]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=7172490382886741520&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]]. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">STATE OF KANSAS, Appellee, v. BETTY HUNDLEY, Appellant. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">No. 56,244. Opinion filed January 11, 1985.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[11]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[12]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 6pt;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[13]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Jeri Martinez [Domestic Violence Victim Advocate at Washington County State's Attorney] “HOSTAGES IN THE HOME: Domestic Violence Seen Through Its Parallel, The Stockholm Syndrome” AK</span>

===Kant AC=== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I affirm because everything is morally permissible. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral subjectivity and disagreement collapse into moral permissibility. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ethics must necessarily be based upon the ideal conception of a human. Only by looking at the ideal natural form of a human can we derive ethics as good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. **Geach**</span>[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state … on my thesis, illegitimate.)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, the form of the human cannot be identified in terms of empirical observation but instead must be grounded in a priori characteristic if it is to be meaningful. **Thompson**</span>[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The a priori character …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> character the latter</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead, we escape this empiricist problem by reflecting on the a priori form of the I. **Thompson 2**</span>[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Skip now to</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__the__** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">…amount of space. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thompson 3</span>**[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">continues</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Let us piece …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">non-empirical subject term.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **consistency with our a priori understanding of ourselves**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Additionally,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> prefer this standard because the structure of reason itself mandates appealing to a priori reasoning. **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">As we have seen, …. to act for reasons. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that a Kantian system of ethics based upon a priori understanding ultimately devolves into relativism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) Kantianism does not derive a moral ought because it relies on morality being self-legislating which does not produce an obligation. **Ridely and Alvarez**[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We have noted…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">any obvious content.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) There is no grounding for an a priori conception human. One person may have a completely different conception of humanity than another.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Sartre</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If one considers …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">onfront in experience.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) Our perspective on the world influences our reasons making it impossible to have a priori reasons that everyone can access. **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">To reiterate the problem…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> of an external reason. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) Even if self-generated moral laws actually do bind our action, any maxims prescribed commit the is-ought fallacy. Just because moral laws //do// bind action does not imply that they //ought// to bind action. **Moore[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]** explains</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">And</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Kant </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">also</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> …which ought to be.</span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]]Maria Alvarezand Aaron Ridley [</span><span style="color: #4f4f4f; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">University of Southampton]. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The Concept of Moral Obligation: Anscombe contra Korsgaard.”</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=PHI|Philosophy ]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, 82: 543-552. The Royal Institute of Philosophy. 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]] “</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Existentialism is a Humanism”. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Jean-Paul Sartre 1946. http://sphynxrhuzzhz.webs.com/PHILOMAN/Sartre's%20Existentialism%20is%20a%20humanism.pdf.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]] “**A REASONABLE RELATIVISM” J. David Velleman. [**New York University] </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]] Principia Ethica. GE Moore.</span>
===Evolution AC=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. **Geach**</span>[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state my … on my thesis, illegitimate.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only constant about what constitutes a “good” human is one that seeks self-preservation. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">West</span>**[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">However, before one … as morally blameworthy. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My only burden is to demonstrate that deadly force is justified as self-defense against repeated abuse. If I demonstrate that abuse constitutes a reasonable threat to the life of the victim, you affirm because self-preservation is the basis of ethics.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prefer this standard for two more reasons because </span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">there is no faculty that perceives moral facts in the physical world. **Mackie[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even more important…is compelled to resort.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ethics is only real in the sense that it arises out of evolutionary principles. All ethical codes and systems can be explained by evolutionary mechanism. **Rauscher**</span>[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The fourth application …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> mechanisms and behaviors</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>__**





**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">only evolutionary theory explains the structure of justifications. **Ratner**</span>[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">explains how all justification traces back to evolutionary theory and analyzes the structure of human justification.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The process thus reveals …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> present or future survival</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, I contend that using deadly force best solves for domestic violence and promotes the survival of the victim.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) **Risk Of Death:** </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Silent Witness National Initiative[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Female murder victims …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">aggravated assaults. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(NOW Legal Defense Fund)</span></span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state whereas deadly force ensures the abuser will never come back. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cohen[[home#_ftn7|[7]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">provides 5 warrants for why the criminal justice system fails to stop domestic violence</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> It is not difficult to ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">no conventional means of escape.</span>__**



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">C) Running away does not solve the problem. This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]:</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The victim be- lieves … ex- tensive safety planning.9</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Johnson</span>**[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">further supports Buel with multiple other studies and provides analytic warrants.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The feminist analysis of ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> those still married.4 </span>__**




----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] http://www.discovery.org/a/9541.</span><span style="color: #757575; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Discovery Institute — Center for Science and Culture. “</span>**<span style="color: #4656a2; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">DOES DARWINISM SUPPORT TRADITIONAL MORALITY?.” May 1, 2009.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">J.L Mackie. Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong Chapter 1 “The subjectivity of Values”. Page 38.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] “How a Kantian Can Accept Evolutionary Metaethics.” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=FREDERICK+RAUSCHER|FREDERICK RAUSCHER]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/|BIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. 1996. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/12/3/|Volume 12, Number 3]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, 303-326.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]]Leonard G. Ratner, “THE UTILITARIAN IMPERATIVE: AUTONOMY, RECIPROCITY, AND EVOLUTION,” Hofstra Law Review (Spring, 1984)--Legion Lex Professor of Law, University of Southern California Law Center.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm. 2006. Silent Witness began promoting an end to domestic violence in 1990 and now in 2004 we are pleased to report that domestic homicide rates are dropping significantly. Our message is one of hope, help and healing for the victims and perpetrators of domestic violence. In this site you will find out more about Silent Witness's efforts to end the silence about domestic violence and bring successful programs to every state</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]] Jane Maslow Cohen [Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law]. SELF-DEFENSE AND RELATIONS OF DOMINATION: MORAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES ON BATTERED WOMEN WHO KILL: REGIMES OF PRIVATE TYRANNY: WHAT DO THEY MEAN TO MORALITY AND FOR THE CRIMINAL LAW? Spring, 1996. 57 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 757</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Michael P. Johnson. –</span>**<span style="color: #463c3c; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> [Michael P. Johnson (Ph.D., University of Michigan) is Emeritus Professor of Sociology, Women’s Studies, and African and African American Studies at Penn State, where he taught sociology and women’s studies for over thirty years and was designated an Alumni Teaching Fellow, Penn State’s highest teaching award. He is an internationally recognized expert on domestic violence, invited to speak at conferences and universities throughout the United States and around the world.] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> 2008-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY PRESS “</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A  TOPOLOGY  OF  DOMESTIC  VIOLENCE”</span>**

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">The Net Benefits AC</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I affirm and value **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">if the neg wants a different interpretation they can ask in CX and I will either concede to the interpretation or concede to the Violation on T.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** explains that strong rationalism fails both because it undermines its own legitimacy and requires a “view from no-where” to objectively determine facts.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything wrong …have to</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> bow to.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">to argue that justifications for ethics ought to be based upon rationality or emotions or intuitions is regressive. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In the wake of the Holocaust, “never again” serves as a rallying cry, which should pervade our moral theories. **Glover**[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Not all sceptics about … pattern of failure.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> only a system of net benefits can condemn the actions of those who commit atrocities, and allow for action to prevent these atrocities. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **net benefits.**</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">is the direct impact of domestic violence on victims.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) is death- The Silent Witness National Initiative[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Female murder victims ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">assaults. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(NOW Legal Defense Fund)</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> harms to the victim outweigh harms to the abuser. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Herman[[home#_ftn4|[4]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">warrants that killing someone who intends to harm simply reaffirms human-worth.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This same fact blocks …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of self-respect.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B)</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Victims are subject to constant abuse and fear of violence in abusive relationships. Women describe the psychological abuse of domestic violence to be worse than the physical abuse that they endure. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Leonard[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even more hidden than …. crime under current statutes.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This dehumanization outweighs any other impact. **Butler**[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]:</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported …. a life that qualifies for recognition.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Deadly force can be used as a last option for victims. Victims can try all the options that the neg wants to bring up and then use deadly force; it is still a permissible option. I dare you to run a counterplan; I will perm it. My advantages are not based on deadly force being the only option.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> is patriarchy.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Patriarchy and societal subjugation of women is the cause of crimes against women. **MacKinnon[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">So what is meant by treatment “…the name of a way of being human.”</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">patriarchy and such conceptions of women perpetuate domestic violence. **Johnson[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]**</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Another indicator …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to gender attitudes</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">domestic violence victims who kill their abusers are acting to defy those who define them into specific gender roles. **Taylor**[[home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Homicides by women</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, …..: the right to physical safety.</span></span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND,</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Making deadly force morally permissible uproots such norms meaning affirming stops one of the root causes of domestic violence. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ayyildiz[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]</span>**





<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">BWS is but one moderate ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> and empowerment.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention 3 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">is long term prevention of domestic violence. Making deadly force permissible deters abusers from attacking victims. **Zipursky[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]** </span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A similar argument ….rguably enhance women’:</span>


----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. BG.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] Glover, Jonathon. //Humanity// (Yale University Press: 1999), 406</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm. 2006. Silent Witness began promoting an end to domestic violence in 1990 and now in 2004 we are pleased to report that domestic homicide rates are dropping significantly. Our message is one of hope, help and healing for the victims and perpetrators of domestic violence. In this site you will find out more about Silent Witness's efforts to end the silence about domestic violence and bring successful programs to every state</span>
[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Barbara Herman-1989[University of Southern California] “Murder and Mayhem: Violence and Kantian Casuistry,” //The Monist,// Vol. 72, No. 3, pp. 411-431. AS</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] Elizabeth Ann Dermody Leonard-1997[Professor Emerita of Sociology at Vanguard University] “Convicted Survivors: The Imprisonment of Battered Women Who Kill” AK</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span></span>
[[home#_ftnref|[7]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Catherine A. MacKinnon [J.D. and Ph.D. from </span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|__Yale University__]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Professor of Law at the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Michigan_Law_School|University of Michigan Law School]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">]. //Women’s Lives Men’s Laws.// 2005. print. AK</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Michael P. Johnson [Pennsylvania State University, Sociology Department]. “Domestic Violence: It's Not about Gender: Or Is It?” //Journal of Marriage and Family//, Vol. 67, No. 5 (Dec., 2005), pp. 1126-1130 SH</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]] Laurie J. Taylor [BA, Wittenberg University]. "</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">PROVOKED REASON IN MEN AND WOMEN: HEAT- OF-PASSION MANSLAUGHTER AND IMPERFECT SELF-DEFENSE” //UCLA Law Review.// Vol. 33: 1679. 1986 AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[10]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Elisabeth Ayyildiz-1995[J.D. Chicago-Kent College of Law] “When Battered Woman’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman AS Vigilante” AS.</span>

[[home#_ftnref|[11]]] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Benjamin C. Zipursky-1996[University of Pittsburgh] “Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination and the Social Contract”. AS</span>


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nagel NC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The resolution asks if the use of deadly force is morally permissible. This is a question about the legitimacy of an action not about the responsibility of the actor. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Value judgments of an action cannot be separated from the subjective perspective from which it is taken. **Nagel**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">In the pursuit of this goal, … subjective grasp as well.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus we must maintain a consistency between our objective and subjective perspectives on the world in order to have a consistent and logically sound perspective. However to intend harm forces an agent to adopt a normative goal subjectively that conflicts with their objective statement of value. **Nagel 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">So far this ….</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> of this restriction.6</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My sole contention is that deadly force intends to harm an individual. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The US Model Penal Code[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] defines deadly force as "**__Force that … serious bodily injury.__**" </span>

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1] Nagel, Thomas.[an American philosopher, currently University Professor of Philosophy and Law at New York University, where he has taught since 1980.] //The View from Nowhere//. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(1962))[[http://www.legalupdateonline.com/4th/140]]. Model Penal Code.</span>

=== === 
===Pacifism NC=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>






<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Epistemology, or the branch of philosophy concerned with the nature of knowledge, comes before any understanding of ethics or morality. Discussions of epistemology precede any other discussion in the round.</span>






<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that only in accepting a system of pacifism and rejecting any form of violence can we then truly understand the world around us. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ted Grimsrud[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Let us define epistemology … domination does not.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus you must negate because any ethical theory, which justifies harming another person, is</span>




----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]][Teaches theology and peace studies at Eastern Mennonite University in Harrisonburg, VA.] </span><span style="color: #535353; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">http://peacetheology.net/pacifism/16-pacifism-and-knowing-john-howard-yoders-epistemology/.</span>

===Levinas NC=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Previous philosophical attempts to explain our relationships with others suffer from the same trap. They try to distill morality into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. **Benson[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Emmanuel Levinas and Nietzsche …</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> my own image.</span>__**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> Western philosophies attempt to //systematize// our understanding of other beings in terms of one universal ideology. Other agents cease to be unique entities that exist independently of ourselves because all knowledge is said to stem from //our// systemic procedures for ethics.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">However,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. **Beavers[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]**:</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">If we can accept</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">…on the environment.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Thus</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">, the moment we are confronted with the ‘face of the other’ forges a fundamental moral relationship between the other and us. This relationship must come prior to our construction of knowledge or ontology. **Beavers[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] 2**:</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">If the otherness of the … to look at God" (Exodus 3:6)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Thus the negative burden is to prove that our obligation to the other necessitates a ban on violence.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that killing the other necessarily violates our infinite obligation to the other. When we attempt to kill another person it is an attempt to control them and bend them to our will. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Butler </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">further warrants the analytic[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">More importantly, this …here "social justice." (DF, 8)</span>


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “//Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry//” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Anthony F. Beavers. “</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS; font-size: 6pt;">Introducing Levinas to Undergraduate Philosophers</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">”. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This paper was originally presented as a colloquy paper to the Undergraduate Philosophy Association at the University of Texas at Austin, 1990 </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Anthony F. Beavers. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> Judith Butler [Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at University of California at Berkeley], __Giving an Account of Oneself__, New York: Fordham University Press (2005), MO p. 90-92</span>
===Generic Counter-Plan=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">A) CP TEXT: </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Victims of repeated domestic abuse will try to leave their abuser to shelters and file reports leading to attempted prosecution of the abuser.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">B) The CP is exclusive through net benefits.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">C) </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">According **Milgram et al.[[home#_ftn1|[1]]],** approximately only 2.1% of abuse victims suffer from instances of domestic abuse are serious.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">However,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> empirics prove that when women use deadly force more often than not they are sent to jail. **Leonard**[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">In Mann’s </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(1992)</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> **__….__**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> number of years was 10.2” (1989, Pp. 21-22).</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">AND,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> Women are abused with in prisons. **Buchanan** [[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">In the U</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">nited</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> **__S__**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">tates,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> **__…. custodial sexual abuse__**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.9</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">D) </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Solvency</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. Battered Womens' Shelters can dramatically reduce the incidence of domestic violence. **Berk et. al.[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">No doubt </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the … very powerful form. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Victims of domestic violence are able to escape studies prove **Schwarz[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Battered women do …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Cobras</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> had divorced.</span>__**



----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]Anne Milgram [Attorney General, State of New Jersey], Colonel Joseph R. Fuentes [Superintendent, New Jersey State Police], Major James S. Beshada [Commanding Officer, Identification and Information Technology Section, New Jersey State Police], Chief Robert Coulton [Ewing Township Police Department, President, New Jersey Association of Chiefs of Police], “Twenty-Sixth Annual Domestic Violence Offense Report,” //Domestic Violence in New Jersey//, December 2008.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] Elizabeth Ann Dermody Leonard, //Convicted Survivors The Imprisonment of Battered Women Who Kill//, December 1997. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">K</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">im Shayo Buchanan [JSD Candidate, Columbia Law School; Sessional Assistant Professor, Criminology/Law and Society, York University], “Impunity: Sexual Abuse in Women’s Prisons,” //Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review//, Vol 42, 2007.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] RICHARD A. BERK PHYLLIS J. NEWTON SARAH FENSTERMAKER BERK [University of California, Santa Barbara] //What a Difference a Day Makes: An Empirical Study of the Impact of Shelters for Battered Women// Journalo f Marriagea nd the Family4 8 (August 1986):4 81-490 . MO</span>
[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Joel Schwarz-1998[University of Washington] “It’s emotional abuse, not vicious beatings, that often spurs women to leave battering husbands” AS. [Cobras are the smallest category of batterer (10%,) whereas Pit bull’s consist of the rest]</span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">[[#March-April]]March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#March-April-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#March-April-Negative]]Negative</span>==