[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AFF 1

Animal rights definition. Animal Liberation Front, “General AR FAQs [[http://www.animalliberationfront.com/ALFront/FAQs/GenARFAQ.htm]] “the fundamental principle… loneliness and kinship”

Neg must defend rights that are universal to humans

Definition of recognition. OED. [[http://oed.com/view/Entry/159646?redirectedFrom=recognition#eid|http://oed.com/view/Entry/159646?redirectedFrom=recognition#eid]] “acknowledgement of something… instance of this”

We can recognize that something has rights even if it can’t understand those rights

Value: Justice

Justice concerns truth statements

The way we validate beliefs in truth statements is through reason. Christine Korsgaard, “The Activity of Reason” (Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Monday, December 29, 2008), p. 25 [[http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Activity.of.Reason.pdf]] “In the case… to the truth”

Being arbitrary disrupts reason

Standard: preventing arbitrary distribution of rights

1) Definition of due.
http://oed.com/view/Entry/58238?rskey=Hv2EzY&result=2&isAdvanced=false#eid
“owing by right…granted, or inflicted”

2) Justice must weigh the interests of parties nonarbitrarily

3) arbitrariness in rights distribution precludes normative frameworks

4) if the law is arbitrary then people lose incentive to trust the government

<span style="font-family: Times;">Contention 1: there’s no morally relevant briteline that includes all humans and excludes all animals. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Alistair Norcross [Rice University], “Puppies, Pigs, and People: Eating Meat and Marginal Cases,” Philosophical Perspectives, 18, Ethics, 2004 </span><span style="font-family: Times;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://faculty.smu.edu/jkazez/animal%20rights/norcross-4.pdf]]</span> “whatever kind and… to this objection”</span>

Any briteline would have to include animals. Peter Singer, Animal Liberation (1975), p. 265 “the catch is… to some humans”

Moral qualities in animals are empirically confirmed- animals act altruistically to prevent the suffering of others<span style="color: black;">. </span>James Rachels “Do animals have a right to liberty?”In TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//, Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1976 “but some animals… really terrible hunger”

Contention 2**:** Our concern for our own rights is based in our animal desires to avoid “bads” like fear, suffering, and death. Christine M. Korsgaard, <span style="color: black;">“Facing the Animal You See in the Mirror,” Lecture at Harvard University, //Facing Animals Panel Discussion//, April, 2007. </span>[[http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Facing.Animals.pdf]] “each of us… and human nature”

==Negative== 
NEG 1

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Definition of animal rights. Joel Feinberg. “The Rights of Animals and Future Generations.” Philosophy and Environmental Crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press, 1974 [[http://www.animal-rights-library.com/texts-m/feinberg01.htm#_ftnref1|http://www.animal-rights-library.com/texts-m/feinberg01.htm#_ftnref1]] “to have a… an enlightened conscience”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">To be a rightsholder, a being must be capable of claiming rights</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention: animals cannot claim rights</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Animals cannot have any legal claim or understanding of rights. Joel Feinberg. “The Rights of Animals and Future Generations.” Philosophy and Environmental Crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press, 1974 [[http://www.animal-rights-library.com/texts-m/feinberg01.htm#_ftnref1|http://www.animal-rights-library.com/texts-m/feinberg01.htm#_ftnref1]] “but what is… made convincing rejoinders”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Proxies can’t read animals minds.</span>
H. J. McCloskey [La Trobe University] “Moral Rights and Animals.” //Inquiry,// 22, 23-54 qtd. in Carl Wellman, //Rights and Duties//. New York: Taylor & Francis Group, 2002. [[http://books.google.com/books?id=vvzhAnFL3qIC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=vvzhAnFL3qIC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false]] “There are very… of moral rights”


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Giving things rights when they don’t merit them is bad. </span>

NEG 2
Observation 1: Links
Experts fail at forecasting change. Eric Schurenberg, "Why the experts missed the crash," Money Magazine, CNN Feb. 18, 2009. "Despite everything, we...tended to be."

My arguments are as good as experts. Louis Menand, "Everybody's An Expert: Putting Predictions to the test," The New Yorker, December 5, 2005. "It is the...over good ones."

The intense fallibility of experts’ claims means that there’s no reason to listen to any AC evidence. <span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">Kayla </span>**Webley** summarizes:<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">, “Experts and Studies: Not Always Trustworthy” //Time Magazine//, Tuesday, June 29, 2010</span>

So, reject the AC.

Observation 2: Impacts

The AC's uncritical adoption of expert predictive analysis kills our own ability to make rational decisions, harming education. Ramya Jaidev, "Is Brain Glitch to Blame for Financial Crisis?" CNN, March 25, 2009. "Forget incompetent financiers...scans, he says."

Norms the case establishes justify an uncritical adoption of expert claims, making us blind towards problems in predictive reasoning. Snider and Schnurer [University of Vermont and Marist University] MANY SIDES: Debate Across the Curriculum, 2002, pg. 46-47. "Education can be...project of debate."

Relying on flawed heuristics makes us worse decision makers, and more likely to make irrational and harmful choices. Eliezer Yudowksy, "Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment of Global Risks," 2006. "In Slovic et al....the percentage scale."

Failure to correct our mistakes creates the potential for catastrophic outcomes.
Eliezer Yudowksy, "Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment of Global Risks," 2006. "All else being equal...be by mistake."

Observation 3: The Alternative

Punish harmful practice to deter similar positions from being run in the future. Doug Sigel [Northwestern University], 1984, "The Punishment Theory: Illegitimate Styles and Theories as Voting Issues," Journal of the American Forensics Association. " Just as we....over their practices."

We should endorse positions that promote critical education about heuristics and bises in order to educate ourselves of the problems that affect expert judgment.
Eliezer Yudowksy, "Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment of Global Risks," 2006. "If someone proposes...know it too."



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]