[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

**Util AC #1**

Value – morality

Meta-ethics to avoid circularity

Naturalism/

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Moral disagreement show how morality is empirical.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">David Copp–2002. “Why Naturalism?” Ethical Theory and Moral Practice.Vol. 6. No. 2. April 2002. Jstor.</span>
“The key idea … an ideal thinker”

**<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">All reasoning is reliant on our intuitions that come from our physical surroundings.</span>**
J.L. Stocks–1936. “Reason and Intuition,” Philosophy. Vol. 11, No. 43. July 1936. Jstor. pp 288-300.
“Now clearly every … no external justification”

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Standard–Consequentialism:</span>

# Brain studies prove that consequentialism is the product of rational thought and deontological beliefs are due to emotional responses.
Greene, J.D., Nystrom, L.E., Engell, A.D., Darley, J.M., Cohen, J.D. (2004) The neural bases of cognitive conflict and control in moral judgment. Neuron, Vol. 44, 389-400.
“In our more … high-level cognitive function”


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Consequentialism is agent neutral, which separates it from other ethical theories.</span>**
Steven D. Hales-2009. “Moral Relativism and Evolutionary Psychology,” Sythese. Jan. 2009. Vol. 166. No. 2. pp 431-447
“To this point … agent-centered ones”

AND: obligation to help people since it maximizes pleasure and reduces pain.

Aff burden: Consequentialism affirms, so I have to prove that it is the best ethical theory.



**Global Poverty AC**

People in need are the impoverished ones

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Gough, 94.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ian Gough. “Economic Institutions and the Satisfaction of Human Needs.” //Journal of Economic Issues//, Vol. XXVIII, No. 1 (March, 1994). </span>
We argue that…in social participation

All ethics recognize poverty
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Nagel, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Nagel. “The Problem of Global Justice.” //Philosophy & Public Affairs//, Vol. 33, No. 2 (Spring, 2005), pp. 118</span>

The gruesome facts…extreme global poverty


Not helping when one can is equivalent to inflicting harm, but doesn’t necessitate infinite obligation
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Singer, 65. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Singer, Marcus G. [Professer in Department of Philosophy, Ph.D in Philosophy from Cornell University.</span><span style="color: #2b2b2b; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “Negative and Positive Duties”. //The Philosophical Quarterly//, Vol. 15, No. 59. 1965</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A question that…given you poison</span>

Treating people as ends =assisting
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Gilabert, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pablo Gilabert. “The Duty to Eradicate Global Poverty: Positive or Negative?” //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,// Vol. 7, No. 5 (January 2005), p. 548</span>
We can identify…expression and enforcement

Positive read to basic rights, affluent help reasonably
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pogge, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pogge. “Real World Justice.” //The Journal of// Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1/2, Current Debates in Global Justice (2005), pp.50-51</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">are there other…the poorest countries</span>

Institutional human rights mean supporting bad institutions is a rights violation
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pogge, 92. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pogge. “Cosmopolitanism and Sovereignty.” //Ethics,// Vol. 103, No. 1 (Oct., 1992), pp. 52</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Consider a human…require merely forebearance</span>

Colonialism causes poverty
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pogge, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pogge. “Real World Justice.” //The Journal of// Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1/2, Current Debates in Global Justice (2005), pp. 38-39</span>
In one strand…been built up

Affluent still continue to leech off poor
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pogge, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pogge. “Real World Justice.” //The Journal of// Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1/2, Current Debates in Global Justice (2005), pp.50</span>
I have for…deaths since 1989

Rich violate property rights
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Pogge, 05.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas Pogge. “Real World Justice.” //The Journal of// Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1/2, Current Debates in Global Justice (2005), pp.50</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The point I…</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">inegalitarian property regime. </span>







==Negative== 

**Screw the Laptop NC**

Moral Obligation = standard of conduct irrespective of laws

Ought = can

Res. Is of a moral question/no actor =no plans

Aff burden to prove most cases we help, neg vice versa

V: morality

VC: maintaining appropriate levels of demandingness

1) Rights prerequisite to evth
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">2) Wenar, L., 2003, “Legal Rights and Epistemic Rights”, //Analysis//, 63: 142–46. </span>
Rights dominate modern…is currently perceived

Can’t use a utilitarian view

1) being free is choosing for oneself
2) David Velleman. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Italic',serif;">Self To Self</span> 2006. Cambridge University Press.
As we have…act for reasons

C1

A) Bob Corbett, //Moral Obligations to Distant Stuff//. Webster University



**Double it by 3 NC**

I negate.

V-morality

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Basing ethics in anything but rationality leads to an infinite regression. We must accept reason as an a priori axiomatic fact.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Lewis, C. S. </span>__**//<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Mere Christianity.</span>//<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Collins, 1982. Print</span>
“But the very … getting inside again”


<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">All evaluation stems from rationality, so it must be treated as a source of value.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Korsgaard, Christine</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> [Unattractive Kant Expert – Badass Professor of Moral Philosophy at Harvard]. 1993. “The Sources of Normativity.” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University. November 16 and 17, 1992.</span></span>

“I believe that … to have it?”






=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]