[[toc]]
Aff cites: [[mailto:to.joel.lee@gmail.com|to.joel.lee@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: [[mailto:jordan.trafton@gmail.com|jordan.trafton@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC DSCOVR (Golden Desert)== 
===1AC – The Status Quo=== 

NOAA budget problems and lack of a launch vehicle means DSCOVR won’t be launched

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Tracton 12/8</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> (NOAA satellite system funded, but at what cost? Other important programs may suffer, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/post/noaa-satellite-system-funded-but-at-what-cost-other-important-programs-may-suffer/2011/12/08/gIQAnhpZfO_blog.html]])</span>


<span class="UnderlineChar">After sounding the alarm</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> with Congressional budget </span><span class="UnderlineChar">cutters and .... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">mical) book on the process, but one I’m not going to write. </span>


Plan: The United States federal government should support the launch of the Deep Space Climate Observatory.

__Advantage One – Solar Storms__


They’re coming in 2013

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Kelly 9/30</span></span> (Travis, Grand Junction Free Press Columnist, citing Jimmy Raeder, co-investigator on nASA's ThemIS mission, University of New Hampshire, lso citing NASA and National Academy of Scientists, BA from the University of Texas, MFA from the University of Arizona, TEOTWAWKI: The perfect solar storm, [[http://www.gjfreepress.com/article/20110930/COLUMNISTS/110929950/1021&parentprofile=1062]])


<span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">Lately, I've been troubled by a TEOTWAWKI (The End of the World As It We Know It) nightmare: … supply of diesel or coal fuel, which depend on electricity for production and transportation. Interrupt that supply, and you have a potential cascade of meltdowns.</span>


Default to __scientific consensus__

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Roberts 10/13</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> (Kristal, ABC Action News, Fact or fiction? The hype surrounding solar storms, [[http://www.abc2news.com/dpp/news/science_tech/fact-or-fiction%3F-the-hype-surrounding-solar-storms-wfts1317846662779]])</span>


<span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">No power. No lights. Your smart phones won’t work and the world as we know it will … A solar flare also has the potential to damage transformers on electric grids.</span>


Current storms are merely __preludes__ to the “Big One”

Billings 1/23<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (Lee, science journalist for Popular Mechanics citing John Kappenman, an engineer and expert in geomagnetic storm effects and Bogdan, “The Looming Threat of a Solar Superstorm”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/deep/the-looming-threat-of-a-solar-superstorm-6643435]] EG)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Flares and CMEs from the Sun continued to bombard the Earth until early November of that year, … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> centrally provided power, causing an estimated economic impact in the U.S. of $1 to $2 trillion in the first year alone. </span>


But current space weather monitoring relies on aging warning systems – only DSCOVR solves

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Billings 1/23</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> (Lee, Science journalist. His articles on the science and policy behind breakthrough work in astronomy, planetary science, astrophysics, and cosmology have appeared in publications such as Nature, New Scientist, Popular Mechanics, and Seed magazine. In February 2011, to coincide with the announcement of major discoveries from NASA’s planet-hunting Kepler mission, Lee was invited to contribute to BoingBoing.net. His blog posts over a two-week period accumulated around 350 on-site comments, delivered hundreds of thousands of page views, and spawned spin-off coverage in a host of other venues, including the Daily Mail, Wired Science, MSNBC.com, New Hampshire Public Radio, and NASA’s official Kepler homepage. From January 2006 to March 2011, Lee was a writer and editor for Seed magazine, where he produced content noted by outlets such as The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and Slate.com., The Looming Threat of a Solar Superstorm, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/deep/the-looming-threat-of-a-solar-superstorm-6643435]])</span>


<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Until</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> new </span><span class="UnderlineChar">layers of <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">protection are put in place, the only way to ensure that</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> power </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">grids</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> and … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">but the initiative died in the House. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">DSCOVR may yet launch, but for now it sits in storag</span>e, and the Sun continues to seethe.</span>


ACE will be overwhelmed during the storm

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Brooks 9</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23) </span>


<span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">By far </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the most important indicator of incoming</span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> space </span><span class="UnderlineChar">weather is</span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> NASA's Advanced Composition Explorers … what the impact of </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">losing ACE</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> will be," Hapgood says. "</span><span class="UnderlineChar">We <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">will</span> largely <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">lose</span> the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">early warning capability."</span></span>


No other satellite or modeling matters – they all rely on ACE

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">NRC 08</span></span> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html)


Pursuing this theme, several participants commented on a perceived fragility, or <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">lack of robustness, in</span> the nation’s capacity … </span> and industry to develop a plan for sustaining solar wind measurements from an L1-based spacecraft.


We control the direction of __every impact__ – if we aren’t ready when the storm hits, catastrophe is inevitable

Kappenman 12<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (John Kappenman is an engineer and a leading expert on the disastrous consequences a severe geomagnetic storm could have on the electrical infrastructure. He has studied storms for more than 30 years. He frequently testifies before Congress and advises U.S. government panels on the topic, “A Perfect Storm of Planetary Proportions”, February, [[http://spectrum.ieee.org/energy/the-smarter-grid/a-perfect-storm-of-planetary-proportions/0]] EG)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Luminous fingers of intense red, green, and violet light flicker and pulse across … —and the unsurprising result was a province-wide blackout. And that storm, remember, was far from the worst Earth has seen.</span>


Solar storms causes global meltdowns

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">International Business Times 11</span></span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])


Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, comet Elenin or the Rapture. <span class="UnderlineChar">The real threat to human ….. </span>, be forced to lay down their iPhones and interact with real people in the real world.


Meltdowns cause extinction

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">International Business Times 11</span></span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])


<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the real kicker i</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">n all this </span><span class="UnderlineChar">is that the power <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">grid will be destroyed</span> nearly <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">everywhere</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. What happens when there's no electricity? … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> and be <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">safe</span> enough <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">from</span> the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">radiation</span> that they can have viable children and repopulate the planet? It's a <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">very, very small </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">fraction</span> of the total population</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span>


Only reliable early warning allows us to weather the impact of a solar flare

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Njakara and Marusek 12</span></span> (Zarko, Writer at Deputy-CIO and James A., retired U.S. Department of the Navy nuclear physicist and engineer and a contributor to Paradigms and Demographics, A Perfect Solar Storm Could Surpass Worst Y2K Predictions, [[http://deputycio.com/2695/a-perfect-solar-storm-could-surpass-worst-y2k-predictions]])


<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Tinfoil hats</span></span> aren’t needed and <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">won’t work. Protecting systems</span> from</span> magnetic <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> so don’t believe all the false prophets who have been insisting for thousands of years that the end is near. Most of all, don’t give them your money.


===1AC – DOD Effectiveness=== 
__Advantage Two – Knowledge is Power__

<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S. satellite assets are going dark. New U.S. climate satellites are critical to shape DOD national security objectives in the Artic or Himalayas. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Center for A New American Security, July 2011</span>“Blinded: The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security pg. online

<span class="UnderlineChar">Networks of </span>satellites<span class="UnderlineChar">,</span> ground-based sensors and unmanned aerial vehicles ….. <span class="UnderlineChar"> – states that have longstanding grievances over how they share water</span>.

All other satellites and climate models are __useless__ without DSCOVR’s albedo information
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams 08</span> (12-28-2008, Trevor Williams, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD, Bring Back DSCOVR!, greenmuze.com) [[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html%20G.H|http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html G.H]].)

Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, …. , by writing to your Senator and Congressional representative and asking for a pardon and a launch to orbit so //<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">DSCOVR</span>// can complete her mission.

That makes DSCOVR the keystone – without it, accuracy of __every__ remote sensing system is compromised
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 11</span> (Bill, Reporter for PopSci, 4/06/11, Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]])

Earth-observing satellites are subject to<span class="UnderlineChar"> constant abuse</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">… </span> STEREO, in which a pair of satellites orbit the sun and beam back continuous footage of our resident star. But DSCOVR remained in storage.

__Scenario One – Arctic Conflict__
Satellites are key to solve arctic war and food crisis
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Rogers 11</span> (Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]])

The emerging gaps in<span class="UnderlineChar"> U.S. </span>earth monitoring will impede the<span class="UnderlineChar"> U.S. </span>…. are affecting their missions and to help national security policymakers identify areas of the world that are prone to greater instability.

Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Staples 9</span> (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]], p. 5-6)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a<span class="UnderlineChar">n </span>zone of increased military competition. …. – could, if unresolved<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>lead to conflict escalating into the <span class="UnderlineChar">threat or </span>use of nuclear weapons<span class="UnderlineChar">.”</span>

__Scenario Two – Himalayan Glaciers__
Environmental monitoring key to prevent Indo-Pak water tensions and South China Sea conflicts over receding Himalayan Glaciers
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Rogers 11</span> (Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) (Christine and Will, “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The U</span>nited <span class="UnderlineChar">St</span>ates <span class="UnderlineChar">depends on satellite systems for managing the unconventional challenges </span>… and verify compliance with non-proliferation treaties.

War over water is most likely scenario for Indo-Pak conflict
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Polgreen and Tavernise 10</span> (South Asia correspondent for The New York Times, based in New Delhi and NYT Staff Writer (Lydia and Sabrina, “Water Disputes Increases India-Pakistan Tension,” July 20, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/21/world/asia/21kashmir.html?adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=1313875086-bs3cbbpTrRawxTMk%20SyDqA&pagewanted=1]])

BANDIPORE, Kashmir — <span class="UnderlineChar">In this high </span>Himalayan valleyon the Indian-controlled side of Kashmir, <span class="UnderlineChar">… of the people living in the Pakistan-administered side of Kashmir,</span>Pakistani officials say.

An Indo-Paki war will cause global extinction
Ghulam Nabi <span style="font-size: 16px;">Fai</span>, Kashmiri American Council, WASHINGTON TIMES, July 8, 200<span style="font-size: 16px;">1</span>, p. online

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical …</span>to bolster their nuclear arsenals and advanced delivery vehicles<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

South Asian war goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Landay 2k</span> (Jonathan S., “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, Knight Ridder, 3-10, Lexis)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Few</span> if any <span class="UnderlineChar">experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea… </span> confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism<span class="UnderlineChar"> in place. </span>There are elements for potential disaster."

We don’t need escalation for this impact – India-Pakistan war results in extinction even if outside powers don’t get involved.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Robock 10</span> (Alan Robock, Professor II Department of Environmental Sciences. School of Environmental and Biological Sciences Rutgers University, Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change Vol 1. May/June 2010 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcc.45/full)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Based on some early experiments with a general circulation model that was limited in vertical extent and length of runs,12 … </span>declines in yield <span class="UnderlineChar">nearly </span>everywhere at once<span class="UnderlineChar">, with strong impacts on the global agricultural trading system</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>


__Scenario Three – Peace Keeping__
Satellites imagery is a __pre-requisite__ to effective and benign humanitarian interventions
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bjorgo et al 08</span> (Einar, Head of Rapid Mapping, Applications and User Relations; Francesco Pisano (francesco. pisano@unosat.org) is Head, Institutional Affairs; Joshua Lyons (joshua.lyons@unosat.org) is GIS Analyst; and Holger Heisig (holger. heisig@unosat.org) is GIS Analyst, UNOSAT, Satellite imagery in use, Issue 31, October 08)

In recent years <span class="UnderlineChar">the</span> international humanitarian<span class="UnderlineChar"> community’s </span>response to complex<span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span> only a very small part of the overall budget of a humanitarian operation.

And, Lack of effective peacekeeping causes regional conflicts to go nuclear.
Former Ambassador Jonathan <span style="font-size: 16px;">Dean</span>, adviser on international security issues for the Union of Concerned Scientists, "A stronger U.N. strengthens America," The Bulletin for Atomic Scientists, <span style="font-size: 16px;">1995</span>, <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[@http://www.thebulletin.org/issues/1995/ma95/ma95.dean.html]]</span>

Expertsthroughout the worldexpect<span class="UnderlineChar">growing population pressures and increasing environmental stress to develop</span>… international peacekeeping system that can head off an increasing number of conflicts__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">.</span>__

==1AC DSCOVR (USC)== 

__1AC – Plan__
Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.
__1AC – Warming__
Advantage One – Warming

It’s real and anthropogenic
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Braganza 11</span> (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, BJM)

In public discussions of climate change,… reveal increased absorption of energy in the spectral bands corresponding to carbon dioxide<span class="UnderlineChar">, exactly as expected from </span>

**Defer to __scientific consensus__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NOAA 10</span> (Citing 2010 State of the Climate Report, <span style="font-size: 2pt;">EDITORS Alexander, Lisa V., Climate Change Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Arndt, Derek S., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Baringer, Molly O., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Diamond, Howard J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Fogt, Ryan L., Department of Geography, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio Johnson, Michael R., NOAA National Marine Fisheries Service, Gloucester, Massachusetts Levy, Joel M., NOAA/OAR Climate Program Office, Silver Spring, Maryland Richter-Menge, Jacqueline, US Army Corps of Engineers, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Thorne, Peter W., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Vincent, Lucie A., Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Watkins, Andrew B., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Australia Willett, Katharine M., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom AUTHORS Aceituno, Patricio, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile Achberger, Christine, Earth Sciences Centre, University of Gothenburg, Gothernburg, Sweden Ackerman, Steven A., CIMSS University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Aguilar, Enrique, University Rovira I Virgili de Tarragona, Tarragona, Spain Ahmed, Farid H., Météo Nationale Comorienne, Comores Alexander, Lisa V., Climate Change Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Alfaro, Eric J., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Allan, Robert J., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Alves, Lincoln, Centro de Ciências do Sistema Terrestre (CCST), Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE), São Paulo, Brazil Amador, Jorge A., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Ambenje, Peter, Kenya Meteorological Department, Nairobi, Kenya Amelie,Vincent, Seychelles Meteorological Services, Seychelles Antonov, John I., NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Ashik, Igor, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Atheru, Zachary, IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, Nairobi, Kenya Attaher, Samar M., Agricultural Research Center, MALR, Cairo, Egypt Baez, Julian, DMH-DINAC / CTA-UCA, Asunción, Paraguay Banda, Joyce, Zimbabwe Meteorological Service, Zimbabwe Banzon, Viva, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Baringer, Molly O., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Barreira, Sandra, Argentine Naval Hydrographic Service, Buenos Aires, Argentina Barriopedro, David, Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Beal, Lisa M., Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Division of Meteorology and Physical Oceanography, Miami, Florida Behrenfeld, Michael J., Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon Bell, Gerald D., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Belward, Alan S., Global Environment Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy Benedetti, Angela, European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Beszczynska-Moeller, Agnieszka, Alfred Wegener Institute, Germany Bhatt, Uma S., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Bhattacharya, Indrajit, Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Bidegain, Mario, Universidad de la República, Uruguay Birkett, Charon, ESSIC, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland Bissolli, Peter, Deutscher Wetterdienst (German Meteorological Service, DWD), WMO RA VI Regional Climate Centre on Climate Monitoring, Offenbach, Germany Blake, Eric S., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Blunden, Jessica, STG, Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Booneeady, Prithiviraj, Mauritius Meteorological Services, Vacoas, Mauritius Bowling, Laura C., Department of Agronomy, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana Box, Jason E., Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Boyer, Timothy P., NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Bromwich, David H., Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Brown, Ross, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Montréal, Quebec, Canada Bryden, Harry L., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom, Bulygina, Olga N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information – World Data Center, Obninsk, Russia Calderon, Blanca, Center for Geophysical Research, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Camargo, Suzana J., Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, The Earth Institute at Columbia University, Palisades, New York Cappelen, John, Danish Meteorological Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark Carmack, Eddy, Institute of Ocean Sciences, Sidney, Canada Carrasco, Gualberto, Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología de Bolivia (SENAMHI), La Paz, Bolivia Carrión Romero, Ana M., Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Christy, John R., Earth System Science Center, University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama Coelho, Caio A. S., CPTEC/INPE, Center for Weather Forecasts and Climate Studies, Cachoeira Paulista, Brazil Colwell, Steve, British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge, United Kingdom Comiso, Josefino C., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Crouch, Jake, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Cunningham, Stuart A., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Cutié Cancino, Virgen, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Davydova-Belitskaya, Valentina, National Meteorological Service of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico Decker, David, Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Derksen, Chris, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Downsview, Ontario, Canada Diamond, Howard J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Dlugokencky, Ed J., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Doelling, David R., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Dohan, Kathleen, Earth and Space Research, Seattle, Washington Drozdov, Dmitry S., Earth Cryosphere Institute, Tumen, Russia Dutton, Geoffrey S., NOAA Earth Science Research Laboratory/ Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), Boulder, Colorado Elkins, James W., NOAA Earth Science Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Epstein, Howard E., Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia Feely, Richard A., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Fekete, Balázs M., NOAA CREST Center, The City College of New York, New York, New York Fenimore, Chris, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Fettweis, Xavier, Department of Geography, University of Liège, Belgium Fogt, Ryan L., Department of Geography, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio Fonseca-Rivera, Cecilia, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Foster, Michael J., AOS/CIMSS University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Free, Melissa, NOAA Air Resources Laboratory, Silver Spring, Maryland Frolov, Ivan, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Gibney, Ethan J., IMSG Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Gill, Stephen, NOAA/NOS Center for Operational Oceanographic Products and Services, Silver Spring, Maryland Gitau, Wilson, Department of Meteorology, University of Nairobi, Kenya Gleason, Karin L., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Gobron, Nadine, Global Environment Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy Goldammer, Johann G., Global Fire Monitoring Centre, Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Freiburg University / United Nations University (UNU), Germany and European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Goldenberg, Stanley B., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Miami, Florida Goni, Gustavo, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida González García, Idelmis, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Good, Simon A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Gottschalck, Jonathan, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Gould, William A., USDA Forest Service, International Institute of Tropical Forestry, San Juan, Puerto Rico Gouveia, Celia M., Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Griffiths, Georgina, National Institute of Water & Atmospheric Research Ltd., Auckland, New Zealand Guard, Charles P., NOAA National Weather Service Forecast Office, Barrigada, Guam Haimberger, Leopold, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria Haines, Keith, Reading University, Reading, United Kingdom Halpert, Michael S., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Hassane, Ahmed Farid, Météo Nationale Comorienne, Comores Heidinger, Andrew K., NOAA/NESDIS University of Wisconsin— Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, Heim, Richard R., Jr., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Henry, Greg H.R., Geography Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada Hidalgo, Hugo G., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Hilburn, Kyle A., Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, California Hirschi, Joël J.M., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Ho, Shu-peng B., NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Hoerling, Martin P., NOAA/NESDIS Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Jaimes, Ena, Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología de Perú, Lima, Perú Jezek, Kenneth C., Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Jia, Gensu J., RCE-TEA, CAS, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute for Atmospheric Physics, Beijing, China Johns, William E., Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Division of Meteorology and Physical Oceanography, Miami, Florida Johnson, Bryan, NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Global Monitoring Division, and University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Johnson, Gregory C., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Jumaux, Guillaume, Météo-France, Réunion Kabidi, Khadija, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Kaiser, Johannes W., European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Kanzow, Torsten O., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Keller, Linda M., Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Kennedy, John J., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Khatiwala, Samar, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York Kholodov, Alexander L., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Khoshkam, Mahbobeh, Islamic Republic of Iran Meteorological Organization, Tehran, Iran Kimberlain, Todd B., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Knaff, John A., NOAA/NESDIS Center for Satellite Applications and Research, Fort Collins, Colorado Knorr, Wolfgang, Department of Earth Science, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom Kokelj, Steve V., Water Resources Division, Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada Korshunova, Natalia N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information – World Data Center, Obninsk, Russia Kratz, David P., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Krishfield, Richard, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Kruger, Andries, South African Weather Service, South Africa Kruk, Michael C., STG Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Kuo, Ying-Hwa, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Kwok, Ron, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California L’Heureux, Michelle, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Lammers, Richard B., WSAG/CSRC Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire Lander, Mark A., Water and Environmental Research Institute, University of Guam, Mangilao, Guam Landsea, Chris W., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Lantz, Trevor C., School of Environmental Studies, University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada Lapinel Pedroso, Braulio, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Lawford, Richard, Hydrological and Biospheric Sciences, NASA GSFC, Greenbelt, Maryland Lawrimore, Jay H., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Lazzara, Matthew A., Space Science and Engineering Center, University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin León, Gloria, Instituto de Hidrología de Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales de Colombia (IDEAM), Bogotá, Colombia León Lee, Antonia, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Leuliette, Eric, NOAA/NESDIS Laboratory for Satellite Altimetry, Silver Spring, Maryland Levinson, David H., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Levitus, Sydney, NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Levy, Joel M., NOAA/OAR Climate Program Office, Silver Spring, Maryland Lin, I.-I., Department of Atmospheric Sciences, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan Liu, Hongxing, Department of Geography, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio Loeb, Norman G., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Long, Craig S., NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction, Camp Springs, Maryland Lorrey, Andrew M., National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Auckland, New Zealand Lumpkin, Rick, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida, Luo, Jing-Jia, Research Institute for Global Change, JAMSTEC, Yokohama, Japan Lyman, John M., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington and Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii Macdonald, Alison M., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Maddux, Brent C., AOS/CIMSS University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Malkova, Galina, Earth Cryosphere Institute, Tumen, Russia Marchenko, Sergey S., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Marengo, Jose A., Centro de Ciências do Sistema Terrestre (CCST), Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE), São Paulo, Brazil Maritorena, Stephane, University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California Marotzke, Jochem, Max-Planck-Institut für Meteorologie, Hamburg, Germany Martínez, Rodney, Centro Internacional para la Investigación del Fenómeno El Niño (CIIFEN), Guayaquil, Ecuador Mascarenhas, Affonso, Centro Internacional para la Investigación del Fenómeno El Niño (CIIFEN), Guayaquil, Ecuador Massom, Robert A., Australian Antarctic Division and Antarctic Climate and Ecosystems Cooperative Research Center (ACE CRC), University of Tasmania, Sandy Bay, Tasmania, Australia McBride, Charlotte, South African Weather Service, Pretoria, South Africa McGree, Simon, National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia McLaughlin, Fiona, Institute of Ocean Sciences, Sidney, Canada Mears, Carl A., Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, California Medany, Mahmoud A., Agricultural Research Center, MALR, Cairo, Egypt Meier, Walt, CIRES/NSIDC, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Meinen, Christopher S., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Menne, Matthew J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Mercado-Díaz, Joel A., USDA Forest Service, International Institute of Tropical Forestry, San Juan, Puerto Rico Merrifield, Mark A., University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii Mhanda, Albert S., Climate Change Office, Harare, Zimbabwe Miller, Laury, NOAA/NESDIS Laboratory for Satellite Altimetry, Silver Spring, Maryland Mitchum, Gary T., College of Marine Science, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg, Florida Montfraix, Brice, Commission de l’Océan Indien (Projet ACCLIMATE), Quatre-Bornes, Maurice Montzka, Steve A., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Morcrette, Jean-Jacques, European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Morison, James, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Mote, Thomas, Department of Geography, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia Mullan, A. Brett, National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand Na, Hyun-Jong, Climate Prediction Division, Korea Meteorological Administration, Seoul, Korea Nash, Eric R., Science Systems and Applications, Inc., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Nerem, Steven R., University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Newman, Paul A., Laboratory for Atmospheres, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Nghiem, Son, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California Nguyen, Louis C., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Njau, Leonard, African Centre of Meteorological Applications for Development (ACMAD), Niamey, Niger O’Malley, Robert T., Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon Oberman, Naum G., MIREKO, Syktivkar, Russia Obregón, Andre, Laboratory for Climatology and Remote Sensing (LCRS), Department of Geography, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany Ogallo, Laban, IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, Nairobi, Kenya Oludhe, Christopher, Department of Meteorology, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya Osawa, Kazuhiro, Climate Prediction Division, Japan Meteorological Agency, Tokyo, Japan Overland, James, NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Palmer, Matthew D., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Park, Geun-Ha, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Ocean Chemistry Division, Miami, Florida Parker, David E., Met Office, FitzRoy Road, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Pasch, Richard J., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Peltier, Alexandre, Meteo-France, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Service, Climatology Division, Noumea Pelto, Mauri S., Nichols College, Dudley, Massachusetts Penalba, Olga, Departamento de Ciencias de la Atmósfera y los Océanos, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina Pérez-Suarez, Ramón, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Perovich, Donald, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Peterson, Thomas C., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Pezza, Alexandre B., The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Phillips, David, Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Pinty, Bernard, Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy (Seconded to the Earth Observation Directorate, ESA-ESRIN, Frascati, Italy) Pinzon, Jorge E., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Pitts, Michael C., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Polyakov, Igor, International Arctic Research Center, Fairbanks, Alaska Proshutinsky, Andrey, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Quintana, Juan, Dirección Meteorológica de Chile, Santiago, Chile Quintero, Alexander, Servicio de Meteorología de l’Aviación (SEMETAVIA), Maracay, Aragua, Venezuela Rachid, Sebbari, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Rahimzadeh, Fatemeh, Atmospheric Science and Meteorological Research Center, Tehran, Iran Rajeevan, Madhavan, National Atmospheric Research Laboratory, Tirupati, India Randel, William, Atmospheric Chemistry Division, NCAR, Boulder, Colorado Randriamarolaza, Luc Y.A., Service Météorologique de Madagascar, Madagascar Rayner, Darren, Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Raynolds, Martha K., Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Razuvaev, Vyacheslav N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrological Information, Obninsk, Russia Reid, Phillip, Australian Bureau of Meteorology and ACE CRC, University of Tasmania, Sandy Bay, Tasmania, Australia Renwick, James, National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand Revadekar, Jayashree, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, India Reynolds, Richard W., NOAA Cooperative Institute for Climate and Satellites, Asheville, North Carolina Richter-Menge, Jacqueline, US Army Corps of Engineers, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Rivera, Erick R., Center for Geophysical Research, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Robinson, David A., Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey Rogers, Mark, Joint Operational Meteorology and Oceanography Centre, Met Office, Exeter, United Kingdom Romanovsky, Vladimir, Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Romero-Cruz, Fernando, National Meteorological Service of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico Ronchail, Josyane, Université of Paris, Paris, France Rossi, Shawn, National Weather Service, San Juan, Puerto Rico Ruedy, Reto A., Sigma Space Partners LLC, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, New York, New York Sabine, Christopher L., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Saindou, Madjidi, Météo National Comorienne, Comores Santee, Michelle L., NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California Sayouri, Amal, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Schemm, Jae, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Schnell, Russ C., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Schreiner, William, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Schueller, Dominique, Météo-France, Réunion Sensoy, Serhat, Turkish State Meteorological Service, Kalaba, Ankara, Turkey Sharp, Martin, University of Alberta, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Shaver, Gus R., Ecosystem Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Shiklomanov, Alexander, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire Shimada, Koji, Institute of Observational Research for Global Change, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, Yokosuka, Japan Siegel, David A., University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California Skansi, Maria, Servicio Meteorológico Nacional, Argentina Sokolov, Vladimir, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Solonomenjanahary, Andrianjafinirina, Service Météorologique de Madagascar, Madagascar Spence, Jacqueline M., Meteorological Service of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica Srivastava, Arvind Kumar, National Climate Centre, India Meteorological Department, Pune, India Stackhouse, Paul W., Jr., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Stammerjohn, Sharon, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California Steele, Mike, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Steinbrecht, Wolfgang, Met. Obs. Hohenpeissenberg, German Weather Service (DWD), Hohenpeissenberg, Germany Stephenson, Tannecia S., University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica Stott, Peter A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Tahani, Lloyd, Solomon Islands Meteorological Service, Honiara, Solomon Islands Takahashi, Taro, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York Taylor, Michael A., University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica, Tedesco, Marco, Department Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, City College of New York, New York Thiaw, Wassila M., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Thorne, Peter W., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Timmermans, Mary-Louise, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut Titchner, Holly A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Toole, John, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Trewin, Blair C., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia Trigo, Ricardo M., Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Tucker, Compton J., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Tweedie, Craig E., Department of Biology, The University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, Texas Vincent, Lucie A., Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Virasami, Renganaden, Mauritius Meteorological Services, Vacoas, Mauritius Walker, David A., Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Walsh, John, International Arctic Research Center, Fairbanks, Alaska Wang, Junhong, Earth Observation Laboratory, NCAR, Boulder, Colorado Wang, Lei, Department of Geography and Anthropology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana Wang, Libo, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Downsview, Ontario, Canada Wang, Muyin, Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Wang, Sheng-Hung, Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Wanninkhof, Rik, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Ocean Chemistry Division, Miami, Florida Watkins, Andrew B., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Australia Webber, Patrick J., Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan Weber, Mark, Institute of Environmental Physics, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany Weller, Robert A., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Weyman, James, NOAA/NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center, Honolulu, Hawaii Whitewood, Robert, Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Wilber, Anne C., Science Systems Applications, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Willett, Katharine M., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Willis, Joshua K., NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California Wolken, Gabriel, Alaska Division of Geological & Geophysical Surveys, Fairbanks, Alaska Wong, Takmeng, NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Woodgate, Rebecca, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Woodworth, Philip L., Proudman Oceanographic Laboratory, Liverpool, United Kingdom Xue, Yan, NOAA/NWS Climate Prediction Center, National Centers for Environmental Prediction, Camp Springs, Maryland Yu, Lisan, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Zhang, Liangying, Earth Observation Laboratory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado Zhang, Peiqun, National Climate Centre, China Meteorological Administration, Beijing, China Zhou, Xinjia, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Zhu, YanFeng, National Climate Centre, China Meteorological Administration, Beijing, China, , </span>, NOAA: Past Decade Warmest on Record According to Scientists in 48 Countries, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2010/20100728_stateoftheclimate.html]]</span>)

The 2009 State of the Climate report ... the past 50 years has gone into our ocean.”
But inaccuracy of data models collapsed faith in warming science
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rose 10/30</span> (David, Writer at MailOnline, Scientist who said climate change sceptics had been proved wrong accused of hiding truth by colleague, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2055191/Scientists-said-climate-change-sceptics-proved-wrong-accused-hiding-truth-colleague.html#ixzz1cJEOMxdq|http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2055191/Scientists-said-climate-change-sceptics-proved-wrong-accused-hiding-truth-colleague.html#ixzz1cJEOMxdq]])
It was hailed as the<span style="font-size: 8px;"> scientific </span>study<span class="UnderlineChar"> that </span>ended the<span style="font-size: 8px;"> global warming </span>debate<span style="font-size: 8px;"> …. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">as he has, that the issue of heat islands has been settled</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.’ Prof Muller said she was ‘out of the loop’. He added: ‘I wasn’t even sent the press release before it was issued.’</span>
The DSCOVR satellite is the missing link – “L1” data collection provides __unprecedented__ proof through the __most accurate__ climate models – overcomes warming skeptics
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderson 10</span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, [[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The media missed the real story about the so-called “climate-gate”</span> scandal. <span class="UnderlineChar">…. </span>, <span class="UnderlineChar">it is that we can now start to have a more intelligent conversation on the glaring discrepancies in our Earth observation instruments</span>.
That means DSCOVR is a prerequisite to a policy response
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderson 6</span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, SEED, Sep. 26, “A climate satellite is built and paid for. Nations offer to launch it for free. Scientists say it's an essential mission. So what's it doing in a box outside DC?” [[http://seedmagazine.com/content/article/free_dscovr/]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">At a time when the Earth’s climate is at the top of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> practically </span><span class="UnderlineChar">every nation’s agenda…. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Goddard until a change in the political winds sends it to its rightful place at L1. Originally published September 18, 2006</span>
Warming causes extinction and outweighs nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lynas 7</span> (Mark, winner of the Royal Society Prize for Science Books, advisor on climate change to the President of the Maldives, Visiting Research Associate at Oxford University’s School of Geography and the Environment, //The Guardian//, “Six Steps to Hell,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2007/apr/23/scienceandnature.climatechange]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">Scientists estimate that we have at best 10 years to bring down global carbon …. </span> release energy equivalent to 10,000 times the world's stockpile of nuclear weapons.

Independently – accurate scientific data is key to __adaptations__
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis</span> et al 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span> (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, <span class="st">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span>Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])

Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means….. <span class="UnderlineChar">.4 billion in new funding over the next five year</span>s, an increase of more than 60 percent.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Adaptation key to disease monitoring</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ford et al 9</span> Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The </span>scientific<span class="UnderlineChar"> community has a</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> relative </span>consensus<span class="UnderlineChar"> that </span>epidemic and pandemic disease <span class="UnderlineChar">…. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">future mitigation of epidemic and pandemic diseases. We cannot stress too strongly our belief that a strong global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">That causes extinction </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Greger 08</span> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, [[http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111]])


Senate Majority Leader Frist describes the recent slew of emerging diseases in … a tune whistled whilst passing a graveyard.”3154

Accurate data is a __prerequisite__ to any effective policy solution – the plan stimulates government and private sector responses
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis</span> et al., 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span> (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, <span class="st">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span>Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]])

On a national level, <span class="UnderlineChar">the United States is beginning a similar effort to better … </span> the effective use of the information that we currently collect.

DSCOVR is the __only__ satellite in L1 range – all other spacecraft are positioned too far away to gather accurate data.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 11</span> (Bill, Reporter for PopSci, 4/06/11, Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]])

It all began so hopefully. <span class="UnderlineChar">Al Gore proposed the satellite</span> in 1998, at the … NASA enlisted a 62-year-old physicist named Francisco Valero to lead in the design of Triana.

And, DSCOVR is the keystone – without it, accuracy of __every__ remote sensing system is compromised
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 11</span> (Bill, Reporter for PopSci, 4/06/11, Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]])

Earth-observing satellites are subject to<span class="UnderlineChar"> constant abuse</span>. Cosmic rays<span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span> of satellites orbit the sun and beam back continuous footage of our resident star. But DSCOVR remained in storage.
__1AC – Solar Storms__
__Advantage Two – Solar Storms__

They’re coming in 2013
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kelly 9/30</span> (Travis, Grand Junction Free Press Columnist, citing Jimmy Raeder, co-investigator on nASA's ThemIS mission, University of New Hampshire, lso citing NASA and National Academy of Scientists, BA from the University of Texas, MFA from the University of Arizona, TEOTWAWKI: The perfect solar storm, [[http://www.gjfreepress.com/article/20110930/COLUMNISTS/110929950/1021&parentprofile=1062]])
Lately, I've been troubled by a TEOTWAWKI (The End of the World As It We ….. Interrupt that supply, and you have a potential cascade of meltdowns.

Default to __scientific consensus__
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roberts 10/13</span> (Kristal, ABC Action News, Fact or fiction? The hype surrounding solar storms, [[http://www.abc2news.com/dpp/news/science_tech/fact-or-fiction%3F-the-hype-surrounding-solar-storms-wfts1317846662779]])

No power. No lights. Your smart phones won’t work and the world as we know it will come to a grinding halt. <span class="UnderlineChar">…. If a similar solar storm hit Earth today, it could have a crippling effect on our communications</span>. A solar flare also has the potential to damage transformers on electric grids.

But current space weather monitoring relies on space craft which is __twelve years__ beyond its lifecycle
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Independent 6/13</span> (Citing Tim Bogdan, head of the US Space Weather Prediction Centre, Tom Bogdan: 'The sky at night stops me from sleeping', [[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/profiles/tom-bogdan-the-sky-at-night-stops-me-from-sleeping-2296759.html]])

Tom Bogdan doesn't strike you as the nervous type but there is …. <span class="UnderlineChar"> the existence of the solar wind before it was discovered</span>.

No other prediction system solves
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wall 9/13</span> (Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say, [[http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">An </span>active region of the sun<span class="UnderlineChar"> that blasted out</span> powerful solar <span class="UnderlineChar">storms</span> four … <span class="UnderlineChar"> Scientists expect the peak of the current cycle</span>, which is known as <span class="UnderlineChar">Solar Cycle 24, to come </span>in 2013

Existing satellites will be overwhelmed during the storm
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

By far <span class="UnderlineChar">the most important indicator of incoming</span> space <span class="UnderlineChar">weather is</span> NASA's … what the impact of losing ACE will be," Hapgood says. "We will<span class="UnderlineChar"> largely </span>lose<span class="UnderlineChar"> the </span>early warning capability."

No other satellite matters – only ACE provides the data
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NRC 08</span> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html)

Pursuing this theme, several participants commented on a perceived fragility, …, and industry to develop a plan for sustaining solar wind measurements from an L1-based spacecraft.

We control the direction of __every impact__ – if we aren’t ready when the storm hits, catastrophe is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

Over the last few decades, western <span class="UnderlineChar">civilisations have </span>busily <span class="UnderlineChar">sown the seeds of their own … </span> power for more than 130 million people (see map). From that moment, the clock is ticking for America.

It hits globally and escalates
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

Such nightmare scenarios are not restrictedto North America. High <span class="UnderlineChar">….</span> don't cause cascade failures. <span class="UnderlineChar">There is still more bad news,</span> however. <span class="UnderlineChar">Our early warning system is becoming more unreliable by the day</span>

No chance for recovery – a solar storm would cause __permanent damage__ to the grid
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

The truly <span class="UnderlineChar">shocking finding is that this whole </span>situation would not improve for months, …. after the storm. <span class="UnderlineChar">The NAS puts the </span>recovery time at four to 10 years. It is questionable whether the US would ever bounce back.
4-10 years to recover.
Solar storms causes global meltdowns
<span style="font-size: 16px;">International Business Times 11</span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])
Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, comet Elenin or the Rapture. <span class="UnderlineChar">….</span> to lay down their iPhones and interact with real people in the real world.

Meltdowns cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">International Business Times 11</span> (Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 8px;">But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the real kicker i</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">n all this </span><span class="UnderlineChar">is that the power </span>grid will be destroyed<span class="UnderlineChar"> nearly </span>everywhere<span style="font-size: 8px;">. … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> It's a </span>very, very small fraction<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> of the total population</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>

DSCOVR is the __only mechanism__ for providing early warning
<span class="CiteChar">NRC 8</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, <span style="font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Following Bogdan’s presentation, Daniel <span class="UnderlineChar">Baker</span> of the University of Colorado <span class="UnderlineChar">… </span>modeling of these events will be much more difficult.</span>

==1AC DSCOVR (Greenhill)== 

<span style="font-size: 280%;">**__F-Word joel lee- <3 will__** </span>

__Advantage One – Warming__

**It’s real and anthropogenic**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Braganza 11</span> (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515]]</span>, BJM)

In public discussions of climate ... corresponding to carbon dioxide, exactly as expected from

**Defer to __scientific consensus__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NOAA 10</span> (Citing 2010 State of the Climate Report, <span style="font-size: 2pt;">EDITORS Alexander, Lisa V., Climate Change Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Arndt, Derek S., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Baringer, Molly O., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Diamond, Howard J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Fogt, Ryan L., Department of Geography, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio Johnson, Michael R., NOAA National Marine Fisheries Service, Gloucester, Massachusetts Levy, Joel M., NOAA/OAR Climate Program Office, Silver Spring, Maryland Richter-Menge, Jacqueline, US Army Corps of Engineers, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Thorne, Peter W., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Vincent, Lucie A., Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Watkins, Andrew B., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Australia Willett, Katharine M., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom AUTHORS Aceituno, Patricio, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile Achberger, Christine, Earth Sciences Centre, University of Gothenburg, Gothernburg, Sweden Ackerman, Steven A., CIMSS University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Aguilar, Enrique, University Rovira I Virgili de Tarragona, Tarragona, Spain Ahmed, Farid H., Météo Nationale Comorienne, Comores Alexander, Lisa V., Climate Change Research Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Alfaro, Eric J., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Allan, Robert J., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Alves, Lincoln, Centro de Ciências do Sistema Terrestre (CCST), Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE), São Paulo, Brazil Amador, Jorge A., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Ambenje, Peter, Kenya Meteorological Department, Nairobi, Kenya Amelie,Vincent, Seychelles Meteorological Services, Seychelles Antonov, John I., NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Ashik, Igor, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Atheru, Zachary, IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, Nairobi, Kenya Attaher, Samar M., Agricultural Research Center, MALR, Cairo, Egypt Baez, Julian, DMH-DINAC / CTA-UCA, Asunción, Paraguay Banda, Joyce, Zimbabwe Meteorological Service, Zimbabwe Banzon, Viva, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Baringer, Molly O., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Barreira, Sandra, Argentine Naval Hydrographic Service, Buenos Aires, Argentina Barriopedro, David, Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Beal, Lisa M., Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Division of Meteorology and Physical Oceanography, Miami, Florida Behrenfeld, Michael J., Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon Bell, Gerald D., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Belward, Alan S., Global Environment Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy Benedetti, Angela, European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Beszczynska-Moeller, Agnieszka, Alfred Wegener Institute, Germany Bhatt, Uma S., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Bhattacharya, Indrajit, Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Bidegain, Mario, Universidad de la República, Uruguay Birkett, Charon, ESSIC, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland Bissolli, Peter, Deutscher Wetterdienst (German Meteorological Service, DWD), WMO RA VI Regional Climate Centre on Climate Monitoring, Offenbach, Germany Blake, Eric S., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Blunden, Jessica, STG, Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Booneeady, Prithiviraj, Mauritius Meteorological Services, Vacoas, Mauritius Bowling, Laura C., Department of Agronomy, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana Box, Jason E., Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Boyer, Timothy P., NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Bromwich, David H., Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Brown, Ross, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Montréal, Quebec, Canada Bryden, Harry L., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom, Bulygina, Olga N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information – World Data Center, Obninsk, Russia Calderon, Blanca, Center for Geophysical Research, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Camargo, Suzana J., Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, The Earth Institute at Columbia University, Palisades, New York Cappelen, John, Danish Meteorological Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark Carmack, Eddy, Institute of Ocean Sciences, Sidney, Canada Carrasco, Gualberto, Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología de Bolivia (SENAMHI), La Paz, Bolivia Carrión Romero, Ana M., Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Christy, John R., Earth System Science Center, University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama Coelho, Caio A. S., CPTEC/INPE, Center for Weather Forecasts and Climate Studies, Cachoeira Paulista, Brazil Colwell, Steve, British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge, United Kingdom Comiso, Josefino C., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Crouch, Jake, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Cunningham, Stuart A., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Cutié Cancino, Virgen, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Davydova-Belitskaya, Valentina, National Meteorological Service of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico Decker, David, Byrd Polar Research Center and Department of Geography, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Derksen, Chris, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Downsview, Ontario, Canada Diamond, Howard J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Dlugokencky, Ed J., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Doelling, David R., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Dohan, Kathleen, Earth and Space Research, Seattle, Washington Drozdov, Dmitry S., Earth Cryosphere Institute, Tumen, Russia Dutton, Geoffrey S., NOAA Earth Science Research Laboratory/ Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), Boulder, Colorado Elkins, James W., NOAA Earth Science Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Epstein, Howard E., Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia Feely, Richard A., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Fekete, Balázs M., NOAA CREST Center, The City College of New York, New York, New York Fenimore, Chris, NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Fettweis, Xavier, Department of Geography, University of Liège, Belgium Fogt, Ryan L., Department of Geography, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio Fonseca-Rivera, Cecilia, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Foster, Michael J., AOS/CIMSS University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Free, Melissa, NOAA Air Resources Laboratory, Silver Spring, Maryland Frolov, Ivan, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Gibney, Ethan J., IMSG Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Gill, Stephen, NOAA/NOS Center for Operational Oceanographic Products and Services, Silver Spring, Maryland Gitau, Wilson, Department of Meteorology, University of Nairobi, Kenya Gleason, Karin L., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Gobron, Nadine, Global Environment Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy Goldammer, Johann G., Global Fire Monitoring Centre, Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Freiburg University / United Nations University (UNU), Germany and European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Goldenberg, Stanley B., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Miami, Florida Goni, Gustavo, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida González García, Idelmis, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Good, Simon A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Gottschalck, Jonathan, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Gould, William A., USDA Forest Service, International Institute of Tropical Forestry, San Juan, Puerto Rico Gouveia, Celia M., Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Griffiths, Georgina, National Institute of Water & Atmospheric Research Ltd., Auckland, New Zealand Guard, Charles P., NOAA National Weather Service Forecast Office, Barrigada, Guam Haimberger, Leopold, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria Haines, Keith, Reading University, Reading, United Kingdom Halpert, Michael S., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Hassane, Ahmed Farid, Météo Nationale Comorienne, Comores Heidinger, Andrew K., NOAA/NESDIS University of Wisconsin— Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, Heim, Richard R., Jr., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Henry, Greg H.R., Geography Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada Hidalgo, Hugo G., Center for Geophysical Research and School of Physics, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Hilburn, Kyle A., Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, California Hirschi, Joël J.M., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Ho, Shu-peng B., NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Hoerling, Martin P., NOAA/NESDIS Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Jaimes, Ena, Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología de Perú, Lima, Perú Jezek, Kenneth C., Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Jia, Gensu J., RCE-TEA, CAS, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute for Atmospheric Physics, Beijing, China Johns, William E., Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Division of Meteorology and Physical Oceanography, Miami, Florida Johnson, Bryan, NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Global Monitoring Division, and University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Johnson, Gregory C., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Jumaux, Guillaume, Météo-France, Réunion Kabidi, Khadija, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Kaiser, Johannes W., European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Kanzow, Torsten O., Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Keller, Linda M., Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Kennedy, John J., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Khatiwala, Samar, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York Kholodov, Alexander L., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Khoshkam, Mahbobeh, Islamic Republic of Iran Meteorological Organization, Tehran, Iran Kimberlain, Todd B., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Knaff, John A., NOAA/NESDIS Center for Satellite Applications and Research, Fort Collins, Colorado Knorr, Wolfgang, Department of Earth Science, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom Kokelj, Steve V., Water Resources Division, Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada Korshunova, Natalia N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrometeorological Information – World Data Center, Obninsk, Russia Kratz, David P., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Krishfield, Richard, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Kruger, Andries, South African Weather Service, South Africa Kruk, Michael C., STG Inc., Asheville, North Carolina Kuo, Ying-Hwa, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Kwok, Ron, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California L’Heureux, Michelle, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Lammers, Richard B., WSAG/CSRC Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire Lander, Mark A., Water and Environmental Research Institute, University of Guam, Mangilao, Guam Landsea, Chris W., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Lantz, Trevor C., School of Environmental Studies, University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada Lapinel Pedroso, Braulio, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Lawford, Richard, Hydrological and Biospheric Sciences, NASA GSFC, Greenbelt, Maryland Lawrimore, Jay H., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Lazzara, Matthew A., Space Science and Engineering Center, University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin León, Gloria, Instituto de Hidrología de Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales de Colombia (IDEAM), Bogotá, Colombia León Lee, Antonia, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Leuliette, Eric, NOAA/NESDIS Laboratory for Satellite Altimetry, Silver Spring, Maryland Levinson, David H., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Levitus, Sydney, NOAA/NESDIS National Ocean Data Center, Silver Spring, Maryland Levy, Joel M., NOAA/OAR Climate Program Office, Silver Spring, Maryland Lin, I.-I., Department of Atmospheric Sciences, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan Liu, Hongxing, Department of Geography, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio Loeb, Norman G., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Long, Craig S., NOAA National Center for Environmental Prediction, Camp Springs, Maryland Lorrey, Andrew M., National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Auckland, New Zealand Lumpkin, Rick, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida, Luo, Jing-Jia, Research Institute for Global Change, JAMSTEC, Yokohama, Japan Lyman, John M., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington and Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii Macdonald, Alison M., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Maddux, Brent C., AOS/CIMSS University of Wisconsin—Madison, Madison, Wisconsin Malkova, Galina, Earth Cryosphere Institute, Tumen, Russia Marchenko, Sergey S., Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Marengo, Jose A., Centro de Ciências do Sistema Terrestre (CCST), Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE), São Paulo, Brazil Maritorena, Stephane, University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California Marotzke, Jochem, Max-Planck-Institut für Meteorologie, Hamburg, Germany Martínez, Rodney, Centro Internacional para la Investigación del Fenómeno El Niño (CIIFEN), Guayaquil, Ecuador Mascarenhas, Affonso, Centro Internacional para la Investigación del Fenómeno El Niño (CIIFEN), Guayaquil, Ecuador Massom, Robert A., Australian Antarctic Division and Antarctic Climate and Ecosystems Cooperative Research Center (ACE CRC), University of Tasmania, Sandy Bay, Tasmania, Australia McBride, Charlotte, South African Weather Service, Pretoria, South Africa McGree, Simon, National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia McLaughlin, Fiona, Institute of Ocean Sciences, Sidney, Canada Mears, Carl A., Remote Sensing Systems, Santa Rosa, California Medany, Mahmoud A., Agricultural Research Center, MALR, Cairo, Egypt Meier, Walt, CIRES/NSIDC, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Meinen, Christopher S., NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Physical Oceanography Division, Miami, Florida Menne, Matthew J., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Mercado-Díaz, Joel A., USDA Forest Service, International Institute of Tropical Forestry, San Juan, Puerto Rico Merrifield, Mark A., University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii Mhanda, Albert S., Climate Change Office, Harare, Zimbabwe Miller, Laury, NOAA/NESDIS Laboratory for Satellite Altimetry, Silver Spring, Maryland Mitchum, Gary T., College of Marine Science, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg, Florida Montfraix, Brice, Commission de l’Océan Indien (Projet ACCLIMATE), Quatre-Bornes, Maurice Montzka, Steve A., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Morcrette, Jean-Jacques, European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), Reading, United Kingdom Morison, James, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Mote, Thomas, Department of Geography, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia Mullan, A. Brett, National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand Na, Hyun-Jong, Climate Prediction Division, Korea Meteorological Administration, Seoul, Korea Nash, Eric R., Science Systems and Applications, Inc., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Nerem, Steven R., University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Newman, Paul A., Laboratory for Atmospheres, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Nghiem, Son, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California Nguyen, Louis C., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Njau, Leonard, African Centre of Meteorological Applications for Development (ACMAD), Niamey, Niger O’Malley, Robert T., Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon Oberman, Naum G., MIREKO, Syktivkar, Russia Obregón, Andre, Laboratory for Climatology and Remote Sensing (LCRS), Department of Geography, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany Ogallo, Laban, IGAD Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, Nairobi, Kenya Oludhe, Christopher, Department of Meteorology, University of Nairobi, Nairobi, Kenya Osawa, Kazuhiro, Climate Prediction Division, Japan Meteorological Agency, Tokyo, Japan Overland, James, NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Palmer, Matthew D., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Park, Geun-Ha, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Ocean Chemistry Division, Miami, Florida Parker, David E., Met Office, FitzRoy Road, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Pasch, Richard J., NOAA/NWS/NCEP National Hurricane Center, Miami, Florida Peltier, Alexandre, Meteo-France, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Service, Climatology Division, Noumea Pelto, Mauri S., Nichols College, Dudley, Massachusetts Penalba, Olga, Departamento de Ciencias de la Atmósfera y los Océanos, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina Pérez-Suarez, Ramón, Institute of Meteorology of Cuba, La Habana, Cuba Perovich, Donald, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Peterson, Thomas C., NOAA/NESDIS National Climatic Data Center, Asheville, North Carolina Pezza, Alexandre B., The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, Phillips, David, Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Pinty, Bernard, Monitoring Unit, IES, EC Joint Research Centre, Ispra, Italy (Seconded to the Earth Observation Directorate, ESA-ESRIN, Frascati, Italy) Pinzon, Jorge E., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Pitts, Michael C., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Polyakov, Igor, International Arctic Research Center, Fairbanks, Alaska Proshutinsky, Andrey, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Quintana, Juan, Dirección Meteorológica de Chile, Santiago, Chile Quintero, Alexander, Servicio de Meteorología de l’Aviación (SEMETAVIA), Maracay, Aragua, Venezuela Rachid, Sebbari, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Rahimzadeh, Fatemeh, Atmospheric Science and Meteorological Research Center, Tehran, Iran Rajeevan, Madhavan, National Atmospheric Research Laboratory, Tirupati, India Randel, William, Atmospheric Chemistry Division, NCAR, Boulder, Colorado Randriamarolaza, Luc Y.A., Service Météorologique de Madagascar, Madagascar Rayner, Darren, Ocean Observing and Climate Research Group, National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, United Kingdom Raynolds, Martha K., Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Razuvaev, Vyacheslav N., All-Russian Research Institute of Hydrological Information, Obninsk, Russia Reid, Phillip, Australian Bureau of Meteorology and ACE CRC, University of Tasmania, Sandy Bay, Tasmania, Australia Renwick, James, National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand Revadekar, Jayashree, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, India Reynolds, Richard W., NOAA Cooperative Institute for Climate and Satellites, Asheville, North Carolina Richter-Menge, Jacqueline, US Army Corps of Engineers, ERDC-Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Hanover, New Hampshire Rivera, Erick R., Center for Geophysical Research, University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica Robinson, David A., Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey Rogers, Mark, Joint Operational Meteorology and Oceanography Centre, Met Office, Exeter, United Kingdom Romanovsky, Vladimir, Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Romero-Cruz, Fernando, National Meteorological Service of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico Ronchail, Josyane, Université of Paris, Paris, France Rossi, Shawn, National Weather Service, San Juan, Puerto Rico Ruedy, Reto A., Sigma Space Partners LLC, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, New York, New York Sabine, Christopher L., NOAA/OAR Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington Saindou, Madjidi, Météo National Comorienne, Comores Santee, Michelle L., NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California Sayouri, Amal, Direction de la Météorologie Nationale, Rabat, Morocco Schemm, Jae, NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Schnell, Russ C., NOAA Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado Schreiner, William, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Schueller, Dominique, Météo-France, Réunion Sensoy, Serhat, Turkish State Meteorological Service, Kalaba, Ankara, Turkey Sharp, Martin, University of Alberta, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Shaver, Gus R., Ecosystem Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Shiklomanov, Alexander, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire Shimada, Koji, Institute of Observational Research for Global Change, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, Yokosuka, Japan Siegel, David A., University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California Skansi, Maria, Servicio Meteorológico Nacional, Argentina Sokolov, Vladimir, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Solonomenjanahary, Andrianjafinirina, Service Météorologique de Madagascar, Madagascar Spence, Jacqueline M., Meteorological Service of Jamaica, Kingston, Jamaica Srivastava, Arvind Kumar, National Climate Centre, India Meteorological Department, Pune, India Stackhouse, Paul W., Jr., NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Stammerjohn, Sharon, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California Steele, Mike, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Steinbrecht, Wolfgang, Met. Obs. Hohenpeissenberg, German Weather Service (DWD), Hohenpeissenberg, Germany Stephenson, Tannecia S., University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica Stott, Peter A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Tahani, Lloyd, Solomon Islands Meteorological Service, Honiara, Solomon Islands Takahashi, Taro, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York Taylor, Michael A., University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica, Tedesco, Marco, Department Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, City College of New York, New York Thiaw, Wassila M., NOAA/NWS/NCEP Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, Maryland Thorne, Peter W., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Timmermans, Mary-Louise, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut Titchner, Holly A., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Toole, John, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Trewin, Blair C., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia Trigo, Ricardo M., Centro de Geofísica da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal Tucker, Compton J., NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland Tweedie, Craig E., Department of Biology, The University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, Texas Vincent, Lucie A., Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Virasami, Renganaden, Mauritius Meteorological Services, Vacoas, Mauritius Walker, David A., Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska Walsh, John, International Arctic Research Center, Fairbanks, Alaska Wang, Junhong, Earth Observation Laboratory, NCAR, Boulder, Colorado Wang, Lei, Department of Geography and Anthropology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana Wang, Libo, Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Downsview, Ontario, Canada Wang, Muyin, Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Wang, Sheng-Hung, Byrd Polar Research Center, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Wanninkhof, Rik, NOAA/OAR Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Ocean Chemistry Division, Miami, Florida Watkins, Andrew B., National Climate Centre, Australian Bureau of Meteorology, Melbourne, Australia Webber, Patrick J., Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan Weber, Mark, Institute of Environmental Physics, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany Weller, Robert A., Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Weyman, James, NOAA/NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center, Honolulu, Hawaii Whitewood, Robert, Environment Canada, Toronto, Canada Wilber, Anne C., Science Systems Applications, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Willett, Katharine M., Met Office Hadley Centre, Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom Willis, Joshua K., NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California Wolken, Gabriel, Alaska Division of Geological & Geophysical Surveys, Fairbanks, Alaska Wong, Takmeng, NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Woodgate, Rebecca, Polar Science Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington Woodworth, Philip L., Proudman Oceanographic Laboratory, Liverpool, United Kingdom Xue, Yan, NOAA/NWS Climate Prediction Center, National Centers for Environmental Prediction, Camp Springs, Maryland Yu, Lisan, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts Zhang, Liangying, Earth Observation Laboratory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado Zhang, Peiqun, National Climate Centre, China Meteorological Administration, Beijing, China Zhou, Xinjia, NCAR COSMIC, Boulder, Colorado Zhu, YanFeng, National Climate Centre, China Meteorological Administration, Beijing, China, , </span>, NOAA: Past Decade Warmest on Record According to Scientists in 48 Countries, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2010/20100728_stateoftheclimate.html]]</span>)

The 2009 State of the Climate report ... the past 50 years has gone into our ocean.”

**Climategate disabled movements against climate change – collapsed faith in warming science**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trenberth 11</span> (Kevin E., Distinguished Senior Scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, head of the Climate Analysis Section at the USA National Center for Atmospheric Research, The guy who wrote "The fact is that we can't account for the lack of warming at the moment and it is a travesty that we can't.,” COMMUNICATING CLIMATE SCIENCE AND THOUGHTS ON CLIMATEGATE, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.cgd.ucar.edu/cas/Trenberth/trenberth.papers/ClimategateThoughts4AMS_v3.pdf]]</span>)

This article briefly summarizes ... accept the null hypothesis when it is in fact false.

**The DSCOVR satellite is the missing link – “L1” data collection provides __unprecedented__ proof through the __most accurate__ climate models – overcomes warming skeptics**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 10</span> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]]</span>)

The media missed the real story ... discrepancies in our Earth observation instruments.

**That’s a prerequisite to any effective policy action**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jeffery 11</span> (Suzanne, Writer at International Socialism journal, Editor is Alex Callinicos professor at King's College London, where he heads the Centre for European Studies, Why we should be sceptical of climate skeptics, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.isj.org.uk/index.php4?id=705&issue=129]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Climate </span>science came<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> massively </span>under attack in ...<span style="font-size: 6pt;">y the scientists the politicians quote.</span>

**Warming causes extinction – positive feedbacks mean we must take action now**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span> (Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”)

Lovelock’s forecast for climate ... even been discovered yet, she writes: ‘‘It’s coming out a lot and there’s a lot more to come out.’’ [22].

**Independently – accurate scientific data is key to __adaptations__**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span> et al 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span> (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span>)

Satellites provide globally ... an increase of more than 60 percent.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adaptation key to disease monitoring</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ford et al 9</span> Timothy E. Ford, Rita R. Colwell, Joan B. Rose, Stephen S. Morse, David J. Rogers, and Terry L. Yates, University of New England, Biddeford, Maine, USA (T.E. Ford); University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (R.R. Colwell); Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA (J.B. Rose); Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New York, New York, USA (S.S. Morse); Oxford University, Oxford, UK (D.J. Rogers); and University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA (T.L. Yates)( Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal, “Satellite Imagery in Predicting Infectious Disease Outbreaks”, September 2009, v.15)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>scientific community ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> global satellite program is essential for future disease prediction.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greger 08</span> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111]]</span>)


Senate Majority Leader ... passing a graveyard.”3154

**Accurate data is a __prerequisite__ to any effective policy solution – the plan stimulates government and private sector responses**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span> et al., 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span> (James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span>)

On a national level, the United States ... use of the information that we currently collect.

**DSCOVR is the __only__ satellite in L1 range – all other spacecraft are positioned too far away to gather accurate data.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Popular Science 11</span> (Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]]</span>)

It all began so ... design of Triana.

**And, DSCOVR is the keystone – without it, accuracy of __every__ remote sensing system is compromised**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Popular Science 11</span> (Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? April 6, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]]</span>)

Earth-observing satellites... DSCOVR remained in storage.

**__Advantage Two – Solar Storms__**

**They’ll hit Earth in 2013 – we have no precise mechanism for predicting the time of impact**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall 9/13</span> (Mike, SPACE.com Senior Writer, 'Old Faithful' Sunspot to Fire Off More Solar Flares, Scientists Say, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.space.com/12921-sun-solar-flares-faithful-sunspot.html]]</span>)

An active region of the sun ... Solar Cycle 24, to come in 2013

**Current space weather monitoring relies on space craft which is __twelve years__ beyond its lifecycle**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Independent 6/13</span> (Citing Tim Bogdan, head of the US Space Weather Prediction Centre, Tom Bogdan: 'The sky at night stops me from sleeping', <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/profiles/tom-bogdan-the-sky-at-night-stops-me-from-sleeping-2296759.html]]</span>)

Tom Bogdan doesn't strike you as... before it was discovered.

**Existing satellites will be overwhelmed during the storm**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

By far the most important ... early warning capability."

**No other satellite matters – only ACE provides the data**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC 08</span> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]</span>)

Pursuing this theme, several ... an L1-based spacecraft.

**We control the direction of __every impact__ – if we aren’t ready when the storm hits, catastrophe is inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

Over the last few decades, western civilisations ...clock is ticking for America.

**It hits globally and escalates**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

Such nightmare scenarios are not restricted ... more unreliable by the day

**No chance for recovery – a solar storm would cause __permanent damage__ to the grid**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 9</span> (Michael, PhD in quantum physics, Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe, March 23)

The truly shocking finding...time at four to 10 years. It is questionable whether the US would ever bounce back<span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span>
4-10 years to recover.

**That collapses the economy**
NRC 8<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]</span>)</span>

Because of the interconnectedness ... events in future years is equally difficult.

**Nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span>. Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic,<span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>

Partly as a result of these ... we may still have to fight.

**And, grid failure causes global blackouts**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newitz 9</span> (Annalee Newitz, Editor for <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://io9.com/|io9.com]]</span>, 1/13/09, “Solar Storm Season could Plunge Earth into Total Blackout, Warn Scientists”, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://io9.com/5130558/solar-storm-season-could-plunge-earth-into-total-blackout-warn-scientists]]</span>)

A major solar storm could ... that we use in almost all power grids.

**That leads to nuclear meltdowns**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cappiello, 2011</span> (Dina Cappiello reporter for the AP March 29, 2011 “AP IMPACT: Long Blackouts Pose Risk to US Reactors” The Post and Courier <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.postandcourier.com/news/2011/mar/29/ap-impact-long-blackouts-pose-risk-us-reactors/?print]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON - Long before the nuclear...: first the earthquake, then the tsunami.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasserman 2</span> (March 22, 2002, Earth Island Journal), <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The intense radioactive heat within ... now operating in the United States.</span>

**DSCOVR is the __only mechanism__ for providing early warning**
NRC 8<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (National Research Council of the National Academies, Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, private, nonprofit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare., Severe Space Weather Events--Understanding Societal and Economic Impacts Workshop Report, <span style="color: #0000cc;">[[@http://www.nap.edu/catalog/12507.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Following Bogdan’s presentation, Daniel ... will be much more difficult.</span>

Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.

=Negative= 


==Counterplan== 
===Russia CP=== 
====Solvency - Asteroids==== 
Text: The Russian Federation increase its exploration of near-Earth objects and its development of near-Earth including procurement of object deflection systems, including telescopes, radar, and deflection technology.

Russia can solve for any asteroid threat – they have the best defense system
Yury <span style="font-size: 16px;">Zaitsev 09</span>, expert with the Space Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, April 23 2009, “Deflecting Asteroids Difficult But Possible”, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Deflecting_Asteroids_Difficult_But_Possible.html]],

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Col. Gen. Vladimir Popovkin, commander ... off in between 2010 and 2015 </span>

Russia’s rocket-manufacturing complex can create technology to repel asteroids from Earth
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AFP 6</span> Agence France-Presse 2006 (the oldest French news agency in the world, October 24, “Russia Can Repel Asteroids To Save Earth”, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Russia_Can_Repel_Asteroids_To_Save_Earth_999.html]],

Russia is prepared to ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> potential threat to the planet.</span>



===PPWT CP=== 
====AT: PPWT Fails==== 
And we outlaw ASATs too – solves any of their “PPWT fails” concerns
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Su 10</span> (Jinyuan Su, is from The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China. Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. Volume 26, Issue 2, May 2010, Pages 81-90 Science Direct)

In a nutshell, <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>... more complete prohibitions.

====AT: China Says No==== 
China loves the PPWT – ready to push
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC 9</span> (2009/06/15 Zero-weapon outer space: foundation for a safer space environment, presentation by Chinese delegation at the UNIDIR conference on space security; 2009. http://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/wjb/zzjg/jks/kjfywj/t575050.htm)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mr. Chairman, To sum up, it is absolutely necessary for us to start work now to realize a zero-weapon outer space by establishing an internationally </span>legally-binding instrument<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And the future work of PAROS in the CD may serve this purpose well. We believe an ambitious working programme should be adopted by CD regarding PAROS, starting with substantive </span>discussion on PPWT<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and reviving all relevant proposals that contribute to the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">security of outer space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In this regard, </span>we are open to <span class="UnderlineChar">proposals such as </span>world-wide ban on ASAT, which is, in our view, in line with the PPWT <span class="UnderlineChar">and could be well incorporated into this document</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>China is ready <span class="UnderlineChar">to exchange views with all interested parties, both bilaterally and multilaterally, </span>on <span class="UnderlineChar">the issues related to </span>a zero-weapon outer space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

====AT: Russia Says No==== 
Russia really wants disbarment…this is awkward – we cite officials
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vasiliev 8</span> (Victor Vasiliev is Deputy Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the United Nations Offi ce and other International Organizations in Geneva. After graduating in 1989 from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations he joined the diplomatic service. Vasiliev has participated as a member of the Soviet/Russian delegations at various international forums, including the NPT 1995– 2005 Review Conferences, sessions of the UN General Assembly First Committee, Disarmament Commission, etc. He was part of the UN Group of Governmental Experts on Verifi cation in All its Aspects in 2005–2006. 12/18/2008 THE DRAFT TREATY ON THE PREVENTION OF THE PLACEMENT OF WEAPONS IN OUTER SPACE, THE THREAT OR USE OF FORCE AGAINST OUTER SPACE OBJECTS http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Speaking in Munich</span> on 11 February 2007, Russian PresidentVladimir Putin warned against <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>emergence of new <span class="UnderlineChar">high-technology </span>destabilizing <span class="UnderlineChar">types of </span>weapons and <span class="UnderlineChar">new areas of </span>confrontation, particularly in outer space. <span class="UnderlineChar">He </span>emphasized <span class="UnderlineChar">that </span>weaponization <span class="UnderlineChar">of outer space </span>could trigger unpredictable consequences <span class="UnderlineChar">for the international community</span>—no less serious than the onset of the nuclear era. <span class="UnderlineChar">He</span> also noted <span class="UnderlineChar">that </span>a draft special treaty was being prepared aimed at preventing <span class="UnderlineChar">such a </span>development.
At its plenary meeting on 12 February 2008, Sergey Lavrov, Minister of Foreign Affairs <span class="UnderlineChar">of the Russian Federation</span>, addressed the <span class="UnderlineChar">Conference on Disarmament</span> (CD) andoffi cially introduced <span class="UnderlineChar">the draft of </span>theTreaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force Against Outer Space Objects (PPWT), prepared jointly by Russia and China, for consideration by the CD


===Privatization=== 
====Prizes 1NC==== 
Text: The United States federal government should offer a substantial monetary prize to the first private entity that increases space-effects with non-satellite assets in space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.
__First, competition__
“Its” indicates possession – the aff must defend solely USfg action
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Free Dictionary</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Last Updated </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"><http://www.thefreedictionary.com/its>//DoeS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">its (its) adj. The possessive form of it. Used as a modifier before a noun: The airline canceled its early flight to New York.</span>
That’s key to prevent affs from funding __any actor__ like a private company or a different government to do the plan – makes it impossible for the negative to ever be prepared
__Second, solvency__
Prizes have succeeded in the past – more substantial projects are now viable
USSEP4<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Recommendation 5-2 from "A Journey to Inspire, Innovate, and Discover," the report of the President's Commission on the Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/rec52.htm]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Prizes. </span>The Commission heard testimony from a variety of sources commenting on the value of prizes for the achievement of technology breakthroughs. Examples of the success of such an approach include the Orteig Prize, collected by Charles Lindbergh for his solo flight to Europe, and the current X-Prize for human suborbital flight. <span class="UnderlineChar">It is estimated that </span>over $400 million has been invested in developing technology by the X-Prize competitors<span class="UnderlineChar"> that will vie for a $10 million prize - a 40 to 1 payoff for technolgy. The Commission strongly supports the Centennial Challenge program recently established by NASA. This program provides up to $50 million in any given fiscal year for the payment of cash prizes for achievement of space or aeronautical technologies, with no single prize in excess of $10 million without the approval of the NASA Administrator.</span> The focus of cash prizes should be on maturing the enabling technologies associated with the vision. <span class="UnderlineChar">NASA should expand its Centennial prize program to encourage entrepreneurs and risk-takers to undertake major space missions. </span>Give the complexity and challenges of the new vision, the Commission suggests that a more substantial prize might be appropriate to accelerate the development of enabling technologies.<span class="UnderlineChar"> As an example of a particularly challenging prize concept, $100 million to $1 billion could be offered to the first organization to place humans on the Moon and sustain them for a fixed period before they return to Earth. </span>The Commission suggests that more substantial prize programs be considered and, if found appropriate, NASA should work with the Congress to develop how the funding for such a prize would be provided.

====Anchor Tenant (SPS) 1NC==== 
The United States Department of Defense, as an anchor tenant, should incentivize space based solar power in the United States
__Demand__ is the barrier for SPS – acting as an anchor tenant is the only way to incentivize development
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boyle 7</span> (Alan Boyle ‘7, Science editor @ MSNBC “Power from space? Pentagon likes the idea,” 10/12/07, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/21253268/)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">T</span><span class="UnderlineChar">he </span>military<span style="font-size: 8px;"> itself </span>could ... actually developing<span class="UnderlineChar"> a SBSP capability</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">."</span>

And the counterplan doesn’t spend any __new money__ – space-based solar power will be equal to current DoD energy costs
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Betancourt 10</span> (Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html )

Military Interest: The U.S. military ... the costs of SBSP lower over time.

=====2NC Overview===== 
This is a 100% solvency takeout to the affirmative – __no customer base__ means you vote neg on presumption
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Preble 10</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Darel Preble is former member of the Board of Directors of the National Space Society (NSS). Darel Preble is a systems analyst, physicist and, since 1997, chair of the Space Solar Power Workshop. In 1994, 1995 and 1996, while employed as Southern Company’s nuclear security analyst, he wrote a series of three annual white papers entitled “Solar Power Satellites (SPS): The Technological Imperative?” These were not done at Southern Company request or expense but were circulated within the electric power industry and aerospace community. Since December, 1984 he had been Sr. Systems Analyst for INCORE, a nuclear class 1 (safety related) IBM mainframe computer code which managed the nuclear burn at Southern Company’s PWR nuclear reactors. He created, taught and hired teachers for classes in new technology systems including neural networks and genetic algorithms; initiated and led numerous advanced technology development projects including an advanced weather forecasting evaluation for bulk power marketing; He represented Southern Company at numerous power industry conference and computer forums including EPRI, EEI, and INFORUM. Mr. Preble’s first published testimony before the Department of Energy for the “Third Energy Plan”, 1980, “Solar Power Satellites - Energy for the Future” was read into the Congressional Record for June 22, 1981. He was honored to be the only foreigner to address the 2005 Japanese Solar Power Satellite Research Society Symposium. He is a member National Defense Industries Association Energy Security Committee, IEEE, Sigma Xi, SSI, and Peachtree Presbyterian Church. He enjoys jogging, spelunking, scuba diving and surfing without a board to stand on. He is married, in good health, and holds the following degrees: M.S., Physics, Georgia State University, Thesis: “Shell Model Calculation of the Splitting between the T=0 and T=1 6- States of Silicon 28 (Nuclear modeling) M.A., Administration (Systems Management), George Washington Univ. Thesis: Research & Development forecasting; B.A., Physics, Vanderbilt University. Winter 2010 The Sunsat Act - Transforming our Energy, Economy and Environment Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites Space Solar Power Institute, Atlanta, GA, 30236 http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/preble.html)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Why Don't Existing US Utilities or Companies Build SSP</span>?
No company<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> steel to earn a dollar that any other business</span>.
=====AT: Demonstration Key===== 
Demonstration fails – it doesn’t provide economic security
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rouge 7</span> (Joseph, NSSO director, 10/10**.** " Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” [[http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]].)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">FINDING: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>SBSP<span class="UnderlineChar"> Study Group </span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> of terrestrial launch sites in the interior of the country. </span>


===Commission CP=== 
====1NC==== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The counterplan solves the case and avoids policy churn</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Newton and Atkins 10</span> (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Policy stability is not</span> an <span class="UnderlineChar">unheard-of</span> feat; examples ... and, most of all, sustained for the long-term benefit of the nation.

**And it doesn’t link to politics – the mechanism of the counterplan ensures passage and provides cover**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mayer 7</span> (Kenneth, - professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The</span> conventional <span class="UnderlineChar">wisdom was that legislators</span>, <span class="UnderlineChar">... disapproval resolutions came anywhere close to passing</span>.
====AT: Links to Politics==== 
Congress will say their hands were tied – the commission’s recommendations are final, so no one has to take the blame
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Marshall 10</span> (William Marshall, Progressive Fix, 2/18/2010. “Obama’s Deficit Commission,” http://www.progressivefix.com/obamas-deficit-commission)
Still, such commissions<span class="UnderlineChar"> are ...</span> strength and whittle down the unemployment rate.

45 Day Limit – No time to focus
<span style="font-size: 16px;">North 10</span> (David, Center for Immigration Studies Fellow, August, http://www.cis.org/indirect-immigration-policy-making)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">HR 4321 is full of many flaws and would change America’s...the decision in the usual manner, directly.21</span>

The space commission __deflects blame__ to avoid controversial policies*
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schwalbe 3</span> (Steve Schwalbe is from Long Beach, California. After graduating from the US Air Force Academy in 1977, Steve was commissioned an officer of the Air Force and still serves on active duty today. He is currently a professor at the Air War College on Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Alabama. He has completed postgraduate studies in international security or public policy from Golden Gate University, George Washington University, Naval Postgraduate School, Air Command and Staff College, and Naval War College. He is currently a PhD student at Auburn University in public policy. His Air Force career has taken him from assignments as a computer programmer in both Massachusetts and California, to serving as an Air Attaché working in US Embassies in both South Korea and Jordan. He has studied numerous foreign languages to include Russian, Arabic, Korean, and French. 07/17/2003 “Independent Commissions: Their History, Utilization and Effectiveness” [[http://www.naspaa.org/initiatives/paa/pdf/Steve_Schwalbe.pdf]], JT)

What<span class="UnderlineChar"> the </span>taxpayers are<span class="UnderlineChar"> primarily </span>...<span style="font-size: 8px;"> appointed Secretary of Defense!25</span>

====AT: Theory==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Implementation</span> is key to <span class="CiteChar">education</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Elmore 80</span> (Richard F., Prof. Edu. Leadership and Director of Consortium for Policy Research in Education @ Harvard, //Political Science Quarterly//, “Backward Mapping: Implementation Research and Policy Decisions,” pg. 605-608)

<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">The emergence of implementation as a subject for policy analysis coincides closely with the discovery by policy analysts that decisions are not self-executing.</span>Analysis of policy <span class="UnderlineChar">choices </span>matters <span class="UnderlineChar">very </span>little if <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>mechanism<span class="UnderlineChar"> for implementing those choices </span>is poorly understood.<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> In answering the question, "What percentage of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the work of achieving a desired </span>government<span class="UnderlineChar">al action</span> is<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> done when the preferred analytic alternative has been identified?" Allison estimated that, in the normal case it was about 10 percent leaving the remaining </span>90 percent<span class="UnderlineChar"> in the realm of </span>implementation.<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Hence, in Nelson's terms, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">"the core of</span> analysis <span class="UnderlineChar">of alternatives </span>becomes <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>prediction of how<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> alternative </span>organizational structures <span class="UnderlineChar">will </span>behave <span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">over...time." But the task of prediction is vastly complicated by the absences of a coherent body of organizational theory, making it necessary to posit several alternative models of organization. </span>

**Specifically in the context of space, the CP tests the __core question__ of the resolution for effective policy making
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Newton 11</span> (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, with Michael D. Griffin, United States space policy and international partnership, Space Policy 27 n 1, 2011)

Is the USA better off ..., but it makes poor policy.





===Advantage CPs=== 
====1NC Ground Resistors CP==== 

Ground Resistors solve solar storms
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kappenman 09</span> (Joseph, CEO of electromagnetic damage consulting company MetaTech, “The 2012 Apocalypse — And How to Stop It,” [[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/04/2012storms/]])

Wired.com: <span class="UnderlineChar">What’s the problem</span>? John Kappenman: We’ve got a big, interconnected grid t<span class="UnderlineChar">hat spans across the country. </span>Over the years<span class="UnderlineChar">,</span> higher and higher <span class="UnderlineChar">operating </span>voltages have been added<span class="UnderlineChar"> to it. </span>This has escalated our vulnerability to geomagnetic storms. These are not a new thing<span class="UnderlineChar">. They’ve probably been occurring for as long as the sun has been around</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">It’s just that </span>we’ve been unknowingly building an infrastructure that’s acting<span class="UnderlineChar"> more and more </span>like an antenna for geomagnetic storms. Wired.com: What do you mean by antenna? Kappenman: Large currents circulate in the network, coming up from the earth through ground connections at large transformers. We need these for safety reasons, but ground connections provide entry paths for charges that could disrupt the grid. Wired.com: <span class="UnderlineChar">What’s your solution?</span> Kappenman: What we’re proposing is to add some fairly small<span class="UnderlineChar"> and inexpensive </span>resistors<span class="UnderlineChar"> in the transformers’ ground connections</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">The addition of </span>that little bit of resistance would significantly reduce the amount of<span class="UnderlineChar"> the geomagnetically induced </span>currents<span class="UnderlineChar"> that flow into the gr</span>id. Wired.com: What does it look like? Kappenman: In its simplest form, <span class="UnderlineChar">it’s something that might be made out of cast iron or stainless steel, about the size of a washing machine</span>. Wired.com: How much would it cost? Kappenman: We’re still at the conceptual design phase, but <span class="UnderlineChar">we </span>think it’s do-able for $40,000 or less perresistor. That’s less than what you pay for insurance<span class="UnderlineChar"> for a transformer</span>. Wired.com: And less than what you’d willingly pay for insurance on civilization. Kappenman: <span class="UnderlineChar">If you’re talking about the United States, there are about 5,000 transformers to consider this for. </span>The<span class="UnderlineChar"> Electromagnetic Pulse </span>Commissionrecommended it in a report<span class="UnderlineChar"> they sent to Congress last year. </span>We’re talking about $150 million or so.It’s pretty small in the grand scheme of things.<span class="UnderlineChar"> Big power lines and substations can withstand all the other known environmental challenge</span>s. <span class="UnderlineChar">The problem with geomagnetic storms is that we never really understood them as a vulnerability, and had a design code that took them into account</span>. Wired.com: Can it be done in time? Kappenman<span class="UnderlineChar">: I’m not in the camp that’s certain a big storm will occur in 2012. But given time, </span>a big storm is certain to occur in the future. They have in the past<span class="UnderlineChar">, and they will again. They’re about one-in-400-year events. That doesn’t mean it will be 2012. It’s just as likely that it could occur next week</span>.

====1NC Warming Data CP==== 

The plan doesn’t change distribution of climate information – only the counterplan solves
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis, 1AC Author, et al 10,</span> James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Having the right data is only part of the ... Japan, and Canada will bear the largest share of the cost at this time.

====1NC Global Science Data CP==== 
That solves
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shapiro, YOUR AUTHOR, et al 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair Faith Vilas, Mmt Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair Michael A’hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair Andrew F. Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Frank Culbertson, Jr., Orbital Sciences Corporation David C. Jewitt, University of California, Los Angeles Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, 2010, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Many scientists, especially among the world’s planetary scientists, have been concerned for well over a decade with the danger posed to Earth from the impact of an asteroid or comet. Officials from various nations have echoed these concerns. Thus, </span>a substantial<span class="UnderlineChar"> and important </span>component of theexisting international cooperation is the informal contactbetween <span class="UnderlineChar">professional </span>scientists <span class="UnderlineChar">and engineers, mainly of space-faring nations, but also including official representatives from some other countries. International conferences and small meetings, as well as the Internet, allow experts in different aspects of space science and technology, including asteroid detection and mitigation, to personally know their counterparts in other nations. Such </span>connections <span class="UnderlineChar">often </span>lead to <span class="UnderlineChar">offers of, or requests for, aid in </span>solution of common problems <span class="UnderlineChar">arising </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">in the course of their work. Veterans of the United States or Russian space programs often participate either openly or behind the scenes in the European Space Agency and the Japanese Space Agency, and Indian and Chinese space activities. Nuclear-weapons designers in both Russia and the United States have often met to discuss use of nuclear explosives to effect asteroid orbit changes. In the event of a sudden emergency due to discovery of a threatening NEO it is likely that people forming this international network will be the first to communicate with one another and consider responses to the threat. For instance, when an observatory in Arizona discovered NEO 2008 TC3 only 19 hours before its impact in Sudan, the informal network of amateur and professional astronomers in many countries responded in time for thousands of observations of the object to be made and communicated to PREPUBLICATION COPY—SUBJECT TO FURTHER EDITORIAL CORRECTION 100 the MPC, thus allowing an extremely accurate prediction of the time (<1 min error) and location (<1 km error) of impact. Formal integration of these elements, with agreed to plans, roles, and responsibilities is needed well in advance of the identification of any specific</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> threat. </span>The U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited</span> S<span class="UnderlineChar">tate</span>s is in a unique position to lead the <span class="UnderlineChar">sustained </span>effort<span class="UnderlineChar"> require</span>d to marshal the international community <span class="UnderlineChar">to ensure preparedness. Given this international community of interested and knowledgeable scientists and (at least some) concerned governments, how should the world develop a coherent program to meet this threat, in all of its aspects? One approach is to work through the United Nations, perhaps by enhancement of the existing Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. Another approach, mentioned above, is to </span>organize the various <span class="UnderlineChar">national, and for Europe, international, </span>space agencies<span class="UnderlineChar">.A third approach is to **organize a new group****<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">⎯</span>a “standing committee”****<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">⎯</span>composed of representatives of nations concerned with this problem and willing to invest in preparedness for a damaging collision**</span>.<span class="UnderlineChar"> A minimum for annual contributions, or national expenditures, on this problem could be set and monitored, say, by the standing committee. The level of contributions could be fixed so that even the minimum would allow “useful” accomplishments. This committee would be open to membership **by representatives of all nations that wished to contribute**to addressing this problem </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">at the minimum or a greater level. Since no nation would likely give up much, if any, of its sovereignty, even in the face of this supranational issue, the committee would develop a program and submit it for approval to the individual member countries. In the absence of a specific future impact event of concern, however, it might be hard to reach agreement (it would probably be hard enough, even in the face of imminent danger). International collaborations perforce spawn legal issues, and organizing a hazard response is far from immune to them. Suppose, for example, two or more nations in the consortium wish to alter the orbit of a potential impactor. In case of seemingly irreconcilable differences, to whom could they appeal for adjudication of the dispute and what precedent(s) would inform such adjudication? As a second example, consider Nations A and B that, in collaboration, succeeded in altering the orbit of an imminent impactor, but, through circumstances beyond their control, changed the impact site from Nation C to Nation D (instead of causing the object to miss Earth entirely). Who decides who is responsible for the damage inflicted on Nation D and to what degree? As a last example, consider Nations A through E collaborating on a mission to change the orbit of an imminent impactor by using nuclear explosives. Suppose that one of the armada of spacecraft dispatched for this mission failed to gain orbit and crashed onto Nation F releasing damaging radioactive material. How are the damages to be assessed and by whom, and how are the responsibilities for payment to be determined and the judgment enforced? The existing legal entity that appears most appropriate to handle these issues is the World Court. It could also deal with contract disputes involving bi- and multi-national agreements involving these issues. The nations of the world would need to agree in advance, via some type of treaty, to give jurisdiction to the Court and to abide by its findings and penalty assessments. Other alternatives could be investigated, such as a new judicial entity which could be created solely to deal with these hazard issues and which might better safeguard national sovereignty. The International Society for Space Law coordinates valuable discussion of these issues and produces recommendations for national laws and international treat</span><span class="UnderlineChar">ies, but it has no legal standing for resolving disputes. </span>This legal component<span class="UnderlineChar"> of the hazards issue </span>suggests that the State Department<span class="UnderlineChar"> and perhaps the Department of Justice </span>may need to play a strong role<span class="UnderlineChar"> in dealing with the international aspects of the hazards issue. One major concern with the standing committee, and its affiliates, especially in the disasterpreparation area, is the maintenance of attention and morale given the expected exceptionally long intervals between harmful events. Countering the tendency to complacency will be a continuing challenge. This problem would be mitigated were, for example, the civil defense aspects combined with those for other natural hazards. PREPUBLICATION COPY—SUBJECT TO FURTHER EDITORIAL CORRECTION 101 Recommendation: **The United States should establish a standing committee with membership from each of the relevant agencies and departments, to develop a detailed plan for treating all aspects of the threat posed to Earth by NEOs**, and apportioning among these agencies and departments authority and responsibility for carrying out this plan, in coordination and collaboration with other nations. **The committee would be further charged with overseeing on a continuing basis the carrying out of each agency’s and department’s activities under this plan.** The Administration should designate one agency or department as the lead; the chair of the committee should be the representative from this agency or department. Recommendation: **The United States should take the lead**</span>in organizing and empowering a suitable international entity to participate in developing a detailed plan for dealing with the NEO hazard.

==Disad== 
===Space Mil=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="italic">Space has been militarized but not weaponized</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Estabrooks 3</span><span class="italic"> **(**</span>Sarah Estabrooks, Project Manager of Space Security research at the Belfer Center, hub of the Harvard Kennedy School's research, teaching, and training in international security affairs, environmental and resource issues, and science and technology policy. <span class="italic">Jul-Sep 2003 </span>proquest)

Space has been "militarized" since the earliest communications and surveillance satellites were launched <span class="UnderlineChar">into orbit, </span>but <span class="UnderlineChar">there is </span>no indication it <span class="UnderlineChar">has </span>been "weaponized<span class="UnderlineChar">."</span> Today, militaries <span class="UnderlineChar">worldwide </span>rely heavily on satellites for command <span class="UnderlineChar">and </span>control<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>communications<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>reconnaissance <span class="UnderlineChar">and </span>monitoring<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>early warning,treaty verification<span class="UnderlineChar">, and </span>navigation <span class="UnderlineChar">of vehicles and weapons</span> with the Global Positioning System (GPS). Research and development is frequently funded by military money. States accept that "peaceful purposes' include military use -- even that which is not particularly peaceful -- and space is considered a sanctuary<span class="UnderlineChar">only </span>in that no weapons are deployed <span class="UnderlineChar">there. Space "weaponization" refers to the placement in orbit of devices that have a destructive capacity.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Therefore, while satellites may be used for aggressive measures, such as GPS navigation for fighter jets or precision guided missile delivery, satellites themselves have no destructive capacity and their support of military operations is not considered weaponization. A space weapon would use either directed energy (in the form of a laser, radio frequency or other exotic technology) or directed mass (kinetic force of impact or a conventional explosive) to destroy its target. That target could be space-based (as in a ballistic missile at mid-phase) or ground-, sea-, or air-based. The Canadian government assumes that a weapon is space-based if it "orbits the earth at least once, or has or will acquire a stable station at some point beyond earth orbit."(2) Any legal mechanism to prohibit weapons in space must consider the possible development of unanticipated technologies.</span>


But the plan destabilizes the outer space
<link>

That causes a space arms race with India, Pakistan, Japan, China, and causes nuclear war with Russia
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitchens 8</span> (Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]])
<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China's regional rivals, </span>India, may feel compelled to seek offensive <span class="UnderlineChar">as well as defensive </span>capabilities in space<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span> The U.S. trade journal <span class="UnderlineChar">Defense News</span>, for instance, <span class="UnderlineChar">quoted</span> unidentified <span class="UnderlineChar">Indian</span> defense <span class="UnderlineChar">officials as stating that their country had </span>already <span class="UnderlineChar">begun </span>developing <span class="UnderlineChar">its</span> own kinetic-energy (nonexplosive, hit-to-kill) and laser-based antisatellite weapons<span class="UnderlineChar">. If India goes down that path, its archrival </span>Pakistan will<span class="UnderlineChar"> probably </span>follow <span class="UnderlineChar">suit. Like India, Pakistan has a well-developed ballistic missile program</span>, including medium-range missiles that could launch an antisatellite system. <span class="UnderlineChar">Even </span>Japan<span class="UnderlineChar">, the third major Asian power, </span>might join <span class="UnderlineChar">such a space race</span>. In June 2007 the National Diet of <span class="UnderlineChar">Japan began </span>considering <span class="UnderlineChar">a bill backed by the current Fukuda government that would permit </span>the development of satellites for "militaryand national security" purposes. As for Russia, in the wake of the Chinese test President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow's stance against the weaponization of space. At the same time, though, he <span class="UnderlineChar">refused to criticize Beijing's actions and </span>blamed <span class="UnderlineChar">the U.S. instead. The </span>American efforts to build <span class="UnderlineChar">a </span>missile defense <span class="UnderlineChar">system, </span>Putin charged<span class="UnderlineChar">, and the increasingly aggressive American plans for a military position in space were prompting China's moves</span>. Yet Russia <span class="UnderlineChar">itself</span>, as a major spacefaring power that has incorporated satellites into itsnational securitystructure, would be hard-pressed to forgo entering an arms race <span class="UnderlineChar">in space</span>. Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities [see box at left], proponents of a robust space warfare strategy believe that arming the heavens is inevitable and that it would be best for the U.S. to get there first with firepower. Antisatellite and space-based weapons, they argue, will be necessary not only to defend U.S. military and commercial satellites but also to deny any future adversary the use of space capabilities to enhance the performance of its forces on the battlefield. <span class="UnderlineChar">Yet a</span>ny <span class="UnderlineChar">arms race in space would almost inevitably </span>destabilize the balance of power and<span class="UnderlineChar"> thereby </span>multiply the risks of global conflict<span class="UnderlineChar">. In such headlong competition</span>--whether in space or elsewhere--<span class="UnderlineChar">equilibrium among the adversaries would be virtually impossible to maintain. </span>Even if the major powers did achieve stability, thatreality would <span class="UnderlineChar">still</span>provide no guarantee that both sides would perceive it to be so. The moment one side saw <span class="UnderlineChar">itself</span> to be slipping behind the other, the first side would be strongly tempted to launch a preemptive strike, before things got even worse. Ironically, the same would hold for the side that perceived itself to have gained an advantage. Again, there would be <span class="UnderlineChar">strong </span>temptation to strike first, before the adversary could <span class="UnderlineChar">catch up. Finally, </span>a <span class="UnderlineChar">space weapons </span>race would ratchet up<span class="UnderlineChar"> the </span>chances <span class="UnderlineChar">that </span>a <span class="UnderlineChar">mere </span>technological mistake could trigger a battle<span class="UnderlineChar">. After all, </span>in the <span class="UnderlineChar">distant </span>void<span class="UnderlineChar">, reliably </span>distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be <span class="UnderlineChar">highly </span>problematic.
====Link - Asteroids==== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Destabilizes space</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Podvig 8</span> (Pavel Podvig, affiliate and former research associate at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, 2008. “Russia and Military Uses of Space,” [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/militarySpace.pdf]])

The degree to which defending airspace and defending outer space are considered to be part of a single mission varies, but <span class="UnderlineChar">most experts agree that defenses are,</span> at the very least, <span class="UnderlineChar">united by the strategic nature of any threat that they would have to counter</span>. As a result, some strong parallels between air and space defense are drawn, and it is in this context that <span class="UnderlineChar">experts most often mention the need to counter space-based assets of the attacker</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">In discussions of this possibility, little distinction is made between “strike weapons” in space and support systems like navigation or communication. This is understandable, as all these systems are assumed to be highly integrated</span>.

More ev
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mellor 7</span> – Lecturer in Science Communication in the Humanities Department at Imperial College London (Felicity, “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and Legitimization of War in Space”, Sagepub, Social Studies of Science, 499(37))
<span class="UnderlineChar">The asteroid impact threat ... using up those unwanted bombs</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

====Link - Deterrence by Denial==== 
Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large and they don’t know better – space is the link
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 10</span> (<span style="color: #000000;">Defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span>Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”
[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
The Difficulties of Denial-Based Deterrence in Space
Efforts to deter<span class="UnderlineChar"> would-be aggressors </span>..., but all of them suffer certain limitations.



====Impact - Miscalc==== 
Space weapons put countries on hair trigger alert, guaranteeing miscalculation and war

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 1</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Dr. Mitchell Gordon is an Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>



<span class="UnderlineChar">A <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">buildup of space weapon</span>s ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span></span>


====Impact - Arms Race==== 
[[#_Toc167807389]][[#_Toc167129228]][[#_Toc167807397]][[#_Toc167129236]]
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 8</span></span> (Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]])



<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even greater concern ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> be </span>highly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">problematic</span></span>.




====Impact - Russia War==== 
No space arms race now, but US militarization causes nuclear war with Russia

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rozoff 9</span></span> (Rick– Correspondent on Geopolitics and US Foreign Policy with the Centre for Research on Globalization, 6/19/09, "Militarization Of Space: Threat Of Nuclear War On Earth," http://dandelionsalad.wordpress.com/2009/06/18/militarization-of-space-threat-of-nuclear-war-on-earth-by-rick-rozoff/)



On June 17, immediately after ...<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> orbit would be asymmetric </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but adequate." [3]</span>



====Impact - Indo-Pak==== 
Space weapons cause Indo-Pak conflict

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 02</span></span> (Theresa Hitchens, Vice President Center for Defense Information, “US Space Policy: Time to Stop and Think ,” 2002, Disarmament Diplomacy, Issue No. 67, [[http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd67/67op2.htm]])


<span class="UnderlineChar">An arms race in space ...</span> longer period of time.

====Impact - Prolif==== 
And the perception of the plan triggers wildfire proliferation
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 04 </span></span>[Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, July, “What if Space Were Weaponized?”, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">It is important to understand that...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> genie is out of the bottle, it is out for good.</span></span>


That causes extinction and turns terrorism
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 01</span></span> (former nuclear weapons designer and chairman of NOVA,[“Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons”])

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nuclear proliferation</span></span>– ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> global nuclear war.</span></span>


====Impact - Heg==== 
Balancing, on the ground trade off, and loss of unique advantages from space weapons kills hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 02</span> (Theresa Hitchens, Vice President of the Center for Defense Information, 2002. “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette?” [[http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm]])


Such a strategic-level space ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> face today from ballistic missiles</span>.


Simple counterm
Simple counterm


====Weapons Fail - Tech==== 
The tech will get hijacked through low tech low cost means by weaker states --- even if it works, it can get __easily hacked__
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Johnson 3</span> [Rebecca Johnson, Director of the Disarmament and Arms Control Programme at the Liu Institute for Global Issues, University of British Columbia, 2003, "Missile defense and the weaponisation of space," ISIS Policy paper on missile defense, January, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no11.html]]]

7. Can Outer Space be ... disrupting space assets<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. </span>

====Weapons Fail - Countermeasures==== 
Simple countermeasures negate the plan
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Robert 5</span> (Maj Robert J. Reiss Jr., USAF Chief, Opposing Forces Division 505 Exercising Control Squadron, 2005. High Frontier, 2:1, p. 47)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Adversaries can conduct attacks against our space capabilities using various methods both symmetric and asymmetric. Adversaries may have the capacity to </span>develop counterspace capabilities <span class="UnderlineChar">but, in many cases, may simply </span>acquire <span class="UnderlineChar">them </span>from a third party<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Near and far-term </span><span class="UnderlineChar">threats may include</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the following: • </span>Ground system attack and sabotage using conventional and unconventional means against terrestrial nodes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and supporting infrastructure. • </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Radio frequency (</span>RF<span class="UnderlineChar">) </span>jamming <span class="UnderlineChar">equipment capable of </span>interfering with space <span class="UnderlineChar">system </span>links<span class="UnderlineChar">. • </span>Laser <span class="UnderlineChar">systems capable of temporarily or permanently degrading or </span>destroying satellite subsystems<span class="UnderlineChar">, thus interfering with satellite mission performance. • Electromagnetic pulse (</span>EMP<span class="UnderlineChar">) weapons capable of degrading or </span>destroying <span class="UnderlineChar">satellite</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and/or ground system </span>electronics<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. • Kinetic antisatellite (</span>ASAT) <span class="UnderlineChar">weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> capable of destroying spacecraft or degrading their ability to perform their missions. • IO capabilities capable of corrupting space-based and terrestrial based computer systems utilized to control satellite functions and to collect, process, and disseminate mission data.</span>

===Credit Downgrade DA=== 
====1NC==== 
History proves the economy is stable after the first credit downgrade
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mandell 8/10</span> (Tim Mandell is a Register News Writer 8/10/11 "What dodes the credit downgrade mean?" http://richmondregister.com/localnews/x1555802881/What-does-the-credit-downgrade-mean)

He said that <span class="UnderlineChar">AAA is</span> considered <span class="UnderlineChar">prime credit and AA+ high-grade credit</span>. “<span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>likelihood of getting paid back by a AA+ credit is <span class="UnderlineChar">considered </span>very strong<span class="UnderlineChar">, while a AAA credit’s likelihood is considered extremely strong</span>,” he writes. “<span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>U.S. is a special case, given its status as the world’s largest economy and printer of the <span class="UnderlineChar">world’s </span>reserve currency,”he said. <span class="UnderlineChar">“If your personal credit score falls, then you will almost certainly have to pay more to borrow. The U</span>.S. can get away with a slight credit<span class="UnderlineChar">-rating </span>downgrade <span class="UnderlineChar">without having to pay more to borrow</span>.” He said many oth<span class="UnderlineChar">er large, developed economies, including </span>Japan<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>Canada <span class="UnderlineChar">and </span>Australia<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>have lost AAA rating<span class="UnderlineChar">s in the past </span>and <span class="UnderlineChar">have </span>not had to pay more to borrow in the long run.

The plan costs billions
<span style="font-size: 16px;">GAO 4</span> (United States General Accounting Office Report to the Committee on Science, House of Representatives “Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management” http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d04642.pdf)

NASA
<span class="UnderlineChar">Considerable change in NASA’s program cost estimates</span>—both increases and decreases—<span class="UnderlineChar">indicates</span> that <span class="UnderlineChar">NASA lacks a clear understanding of how much its programs will cost and how long they will take to achieve their objectives</span>. For example, <span class="UnderlineChar">the development </span>cost estimates for more than half of the 27 programs that GAO reviewed<span class="UnderlineChar"> have increased and</span> for some programs <span class="UnderlineChar">this </span>increase was significant—as much as 94 percent. <span class="UnderlineChar">Cost estimates changed for each of 10 programs</span> that GAO reviewed in detail. <span class="UnderlineChar">For 8</span> of the 10 programs, the <span class="UnderlineChar">estimates increased</span>. Although NASA cited specific reasons for the changes, such as technical problems and funding shortages, the variability in the cost estimates indicates that the programs lacked the <span class="UnderlineChar">sufficient </span>knowledge needed to establish priorities, quantify risks<span class="UnderlineChar">, and </span>make informed investment<span class="UnderlineChar">decisions</span>, and thus predict costs.
Most notably, NASA’s<span class="UnderlineChar"> basic </span>cost-estimating processes—an important tool for managing programs—lack the discipline<span class="UnderlineChar"> needed to ensure that program estimates are reasonable</span>. Specifically, GAO found<span class="UnderlineChar"> that </span>none of the 10 <span class="UnderlineChar">NASA </span>programs that GAO reviewed in detail met all of <span class="UnderlineChar">GAO’s </span>cost-estimating criteria, which are based on criteria developed by Carnegie Mellon University’s Software Engineering Institute. Moreover, none of the 10 programs fully met certain key criteria—including<span class="UnderlineChar"> clearly </span>defining the program’s life cycle<span class="UnderlineChar"> to establish program commitment </span>and manage<span class="UnderlineChar"> program </span>costs, as required by NASA. In addition, <span class="UnderlineChar">only three programs provided a breakdown</span> of the work to be performed. Without this knowledge, the programs’<span class="UnderlineChar"> estimated </span>costs could be understated and thereby subjectto underfunding and<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">cost </span>overruns, <span class="UnderlineChar">putting programs at risk</span> of being reduced in scope <span class="UnderlineChar">or requiring additional funding</span> to meet their objectives. Finally, only two programs have a process in place for measuring cost and performance to identify risks.

Any new spending causes the US credit rating to suffer a __second__ downgrade
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gingrey 8/30</span> (Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D. is a Republican from Georgia’s 11th District, Member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, and member of the Tea Party Caucus. August 30, 2011 “Real Economic Recovery Demands a Balanced Budget Amendment” http://gingrey.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=257756)

Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded the United States credit primarily because the government failed to provide policies necessary to stabilize its debt <span class="UnderlineChar">payments</span>. Although the recent deal struck by Congress and President Obama provides a down payment on reducing the debt, there is still a long road ahead to recovery.
What’s worse, if there are not more substantial reductions in spending over the next<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> few </span>years, they could downgrade our standing again<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, </span>sending another round of shock waves through the global markets and sinking our <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">own </span>economy further into recession<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. </span>The bottom line is that we need more effective policies that will <span class="UnderlineChar">ensure</span> the <span class="UnderlineChar">efforts made to </span>cut spending today <span class="UnderlineChar">aren’t undone by politicians in the future</span>.

That collapses the economy – downgrade creates a spiral that’s comparatively worse than 2009
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goldwein 8/11 </span>(Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">What are the </span>consequences of further downgrades? <span class="UnderlineChar">The most direct one could be </span>higher interest rates, as investors insist on a risk premium<span class="UnderlineChar">. Even </span>a 0.1 percent increase<span class="UnderlineChar"> in interest rates </span>would mean<span class="UnderlineChar"> an additional </span>$130 billion in government spending on interest<span class="UnderlineChar"> over the next 10 years that we would have to offset in hiring taxes or fewer investments to meet the same debt goal. A </span>0.7% increase<span class="UnderlineChar"> in interest rates </span>would<span class="UnderlineChar"> be enough to </span>erase all <span class="UnderlineChar">of the </span>gains<span class="UnderlineChar"> from the recent debt deal</span>. In <span class="UnderlineChar">addition, higher interest rates could </span>reverberate throughout the market, impacting everything from mortgages to small business loans<span class="UnderlineChar"> - and </span>ultimately leading to<span class="UnderlineChar"> something economists call "</span>crowd out,"<span class="UnderlineChar"> where fewer dollars go into growth-driving investments</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">The biggest concern, though, should be that these </span>rating downgrades<span class="UnderlineChar"> could </span>advance the<span class="UnderlineChar"> day of a </span>fiscal crisis<span class="UnderlineChar">. At some point, </span>if we don't make<span class="UnderlineChar"> some </span>changes<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>investors will lose confidence in our<span class="UnderlineChar"> nation's </span>ability to make good on <span class="UnderlineChar">its </span>debt. When that occurs<span class="UnderlineChar">, it is possible </span>we could experience a global economic crisis akin to<span class="UnderlineChar"> the financial crisis of </span>2009, exceptwith no one available to bail out the U.S.<span class="UnderlineChar"> government</span>.

Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mead 2009</span>. Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">When crisis strikes, they are quick to decide that ...</span> world economy back on track, we may<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> still </span>have to fight<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

====Link - Asteroids==== 
But the plan would cost a massive amount of money
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Daily Planet Media 7</span> (Web Copyright: 2007, “BILLION DOLLARS TO TRACK DEADLY ASTEROIDS” [[http://www.dailyplanetmedia.com/more_stories.php?id=4470&mode=10]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And cost conservation... and tracking 6,691 objects. </span>
====Link - SPS==== 
The plan would cost 1.4 trillion
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rapp 7</span> (Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007, Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis, [[http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf%29|http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf)]]

It is widely agreed that <span class="UnderlineChar">...</span> costs go down as activity increases.


===Politics DA=== 
====1NC China Currency==== 

Currency manipulation passed the senate, and Boehner is the only reason why it hasn’t passed in the house
Cornwell 9-13 <span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Susan-, “Boehner stands firm against yuan bill”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/china-currency-bill-splits-gop-leaders-rank-and-file-members/2011/10/07/gIQAR2PgTL_blog.html|http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/china-currency-bill-splits-gop-leaders-rank-and-file-members/2011/10/07/gIQAR2PgTL _blog.html]])</span>

A<span class="UnderlineChar"> controversial U.S. </span>bill<span class="UnderlineChar"> aimed ... about free trade and what limits should be placed on it</span>.

[Link]

That means he can’t stop the bill from passing
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Atlantic 10-6</span> (“What's Behind Congress Taking on China's Currency Policy”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/whats-behind-congress-taking-on-chinas-currency-policy/246098)

Free trade deals in exchange ..., where it is likely to pass.
Passage of the China currency bill causes a trade war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Khor 10/13</span> (Martin, executive director of the South Centre, a research centre of 51 developing countries, based in Geneva., China bashing won't save US, [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2011-10/13/content_13881848_2.htm]])

Nevertheless, the passage of the Senate ... trade war may be unleashed.

US-China trade war triggers a war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Landy 07</span> (Ben Landy, Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines. Landy served in various research and project management positions at the Brookings Institution and Center for Strategic and International Studies, two leading public policy think tanks in Washington, D.C. Ben holds a bachelor of arts degree from Yale University. April 3, 2007, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]])

The greatest threat<span class="UnderlineChar"> for the...</span> budgets<span class="UnderlineChar"> and anti-satellite tests</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Strait Times 00</span> (STRAIT TIMES, June 25, 2K, Pg. l/n)

THE<span class="UnderlineChar"> high-intensity </span>scenario ... should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.


====Link - Agency==== 
Spending money on __new allocations__ costs political capital

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chattanooga Times Free Press 11</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [(Tennessee), </span>September 6<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span> 2011, p. C3]



<span class="UnderlineChar">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Constitution gives ...someone else's consent</span>," namely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Congress</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


====Link - SPS==== 
The plan causes a massive increase in spending

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp 7</span></span> (Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007, Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis, [[http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf%29|http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf)]]


Robert <span class="UnderlineChar">Zubrin has ...</span> times the cost from conventional sources.


===PGS DA=== 
====1NC==== 
Effective accuracy and information are the only barriers to a PGS system
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Woolf 11</span> (Amy F, specialist in nuclear weapons policy, “Conventional Prompt Global Strike and Long-Range Ballistic Missiles: Background and Issues”, Congressional Research Service, 6/21/11 http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/R41464.pdf, P. 7)

<span class="DebateUnderline">General Cartwright and others... of the existing targets.</span>


<Insert Link>

PGS causes nuclear war and miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Woolf 11</span> (Amy F, specialist in nuclear weapons policy, “Prompt Global Strike Capabilities” [[http://www.idga.org/military-weapons-technology/articles/prompt-global-strike-capabilities/]])

Critics of the conventional prompt ... increase the risk of conflict<span class="UnderlineChar"> during a crisis</span>.



====Link - Info==== 
Link – their plan causes the development of PGS
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kirstensen 6</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (Hans M., made with contributions from the Federation of American Scientists, Director of Nuclear Information Project, Hans M. Kristensen is Director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists where he provides the public with analysis and background information about the status of nuclear forces and the role of nuclear weapons. He specializes in using the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in his research and is a frequent consultant to and is widely referenced in the news media on the role and status of nuclear weapons, Kristensen is co-author of the Nuclear Notebook column in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists and the World Nuclear Forces overview in the SIPRI Yearbook. The Nuclear Notebook is, according to the publisher, “widely regarded as the most accurate source of information on nuclear weapons and weapons facilities available to the public.” His publications are available at [[http://www.nukestrat.com/pubs.htm]]. Between 2002 and 2005, Kristensen was a consultant to the nuclear program at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Washington, D.C, where he researched nuclear weapons issues and wrote the report “U.S. Nuclear Weapons In Europe” (February 2005) and co-authored numerous articles including “What’s Behind Bush’s Nuclear Cuts” (Arms Control Today, October 2004) and “The Protection Paradox” (Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, March/April 2004). Between 1998 and 2002, Kristensen directed the Nuclear Strategy Project at the Nautilus Institute in Berkeley, CA, and he was a Special Advisor to the Danish Ministry of Defense in 1997-1998 as a member of the Danish Defense Commission. He was a Senior Researcher with the Nuclear Information Unit of Greenpeace International in Washington D.C from 1991 to 1996, prior to which he coordinated the Greenpeace Nuclear Free Seas Campaign in Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden, “Global Strike: A Chronology of the Pentagon’s New Offensive Strike Plan”, March 2006)</span>

Sen. Sessions: Is that possible? ...One part of this is not enough.

====Link - ORS==== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">But ORS provides the capability and support to deploy PGS</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Doggrell 6</span> (Les, Engineer with the Aerospace Corporation, Senior Project Engineer with the the Aerospace Corporation which supports the Headquarters Air Force Space Command’s Directorate of Plans and Requirements, “Operationally Responsive Space: A Vision for the Future of Military Space,” Air & Space Power Journal, Summer)

Development of responsive space <span class="UnderlineChar">...p</span>erform traditional space missions<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


===Russian Oil DA=== 
====1NC==== 
A. Uniqueness – Best predictions show oil prices are high and stable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AP 11/5</span> (“High oil prices prompt firms to scrap contracts” Saturday, 05 Nov 2011[[http://www.wtnh.com/dpp/news/hartford_cty/high-oil-prices-prompt-firms-to-scrap-contracts]])

HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - Since 1993, Arctic ...but if they drop significantly, everyone's unhappy.

B. Link
1. Their 1AC – the thesis of their aff is to transition away from fossil fuels and oil

2. Backstopping – Decrease in fossil fuel dependency triggers Saudi backstopping—floods the market with oil, dropping oil prices and turning the case
<span style="font-size: 16px;">IB Times 11</span> (The International Business Times is an online global business newspaper, comprising of 17 editions, published in 10 languages across 13 countries. It is among the top ten online business newspapers in the world. The publication, sometimes called IBTimes, offers news, analysis and opinion on geo-politics, global economy, markets, large and small cap companies, science and technology, and business life and culture. May 30, 2011 “Why lower Saudi oil prices kill alternative energy” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/154524/20110530/saudi-arabia-oil.htm)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The biggest obstacle to alternative ...developing alternative energy sources</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Russia is moving away from energy dependency now—President’s speech, new policies, and long-term goals—short term transition like the plan collapses their economy
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solanko 9</span> (Laura Solanko is a senior economist at the Bank of Finland Institute for Economies in Transition (BOFIT) since 1999, specializing at Russian economic developments. Solanko received her doctoral degree from the University of Helsinki in 2007, majoring in economics. Her PhD Thesis "Essays on Russia's Economic Transition" covered topics on fiscal federalism and regional economic development in Russia.” Institute for Economies in Transition” http://relooney.fatcow.com/0_NS4053_202.pdf#page=5 BOFIT Online 2009 No. 10)

Russia<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">‟</span>s economy is in many ways ... just as energy-dependent as it is now.
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">FILGER 2009</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” [[http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356]])</span>

In Russiahistorically, economic health ... is its least dangerous consequence.
===China Politics DA=== 
====1NC==== 
Cancelation of the shuttle program and hitching rides on the Soyuz keeps Chinese space leadership high
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AP 11</span> (Associated Press, 7/11/11, “China Aiming High in Space as U.S. Shuttle Program Winds Down”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2011/07/11/china-aiming-high-in-space-as-us-shuttle-program-winds-down/]])
<span style="font-size: 8px;"> BEIJING – This year, a rocket will carry a … would say the Chinese flag is on there." </span>

China sees space as the last frontier and the pinnacle of national prestige – the plan causes zero-sum competition
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Martel and Yoshihara 3</span> (William MARTEL Nat’l Security Affairs @ Fletcher AND Toshi YOSHIHARA Chair of Asia-Pacific Studies @ US Naval War College ‘3 “Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race” Washington Quarterly 26 (4) p. 21-23)

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">As with the United States, </span>China's<span class="UnderlineChar"> objectives in space… for Sino-U.S. relations</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">. </span>

That causes a nationalist uprising which collapses the CCP
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shirk 7</span> (Susan Shirk, served as deputy assistant secretary for China at the U.S. State Department from 19 secretary for China at the U.S. State Department from 1999 to 2000.CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, 2007, p. 66)

Today's leaders <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">…</span> overthrowing them<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

Biological, chemical, and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Epoch Times</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> , </span>8/3/<span style="font-size: 16px;">05</span>[[http://www.theepochtimes.com/news/5-8-3/30931.html]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Since </span>the Party’s life is “above … withtheir lives.

====Link - SPS==== 

China is developing SPS to maintain its leadership – plan radically changes that
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stone 10/3</span> (Christopher Stone is a space policy analyst and strategist. October 3, 2011 National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive? [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1938/1]])

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout its history, America ... countries’ economic, diplomatic, and military power worldwide.</span>
==Kritik== 
===Security K=== 
====1NC==== 
The affirmative’s attempt to explore space reflects an insatiable urge to colonize and dominate. Going to space does not resolve problems on earth – it merely expands the destructive potential of our worst impulses
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bormann and Sheehan, 2009</span> (Natalie Bormann, Department of Politics, Northeastern University, Boston, and Michael Sheehan, Professor of International Relations at Swansea University, Securing Outer Space, 2009, p. 1-3)

For fifty years, much of our thinking about ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> realities of the space age demand novel social theories</span> of the same order.

The affirmative operates within a framework of nation-state security that leads to serial policy failure and renders all life calculable.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burke 7</span> (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in //Theory & Event//, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This tells us much about </span>the <span class="UnderlineChar">enduring </span>power of <span class="UnderlineChar">crude instrumental ...</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">however </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ineffective,</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> dysfunctional or chaotic</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


The Alternative is to __reject the affirmative’s security logic__– only resistance to the discourse of security can open up space for genuine political thought
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, Prof. Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History at Brunel University – West London, “Critique of Security,” p. 184-6)

The only way<span class="UnderlineChar">out</span> of such a dilemma, <span class="UnderlineChar">to escape ... brave enough to return the gift.</span>143
====1NC Disease Link==== 

The affirmative’s disease rhetoric consolidates a national identity based in a reaffirmation of the Western body politic—this becomes the basis for a politics of exclusion.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schell 97</span> (Heather, Outburst! A Chilling Story About Emerging Virus Narratives and Pandemic Social Change Configurations 5.1, pp. 93-133)

I would like to examine the significance ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> inexcusable as well as politically untenable. </span>

====2NC Disease Link==== 
That robs life of value and leads to the zero point of holocaust.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dillon 99</span> (Michael, Prof. Politics and IR @ University of Lancaster, April, Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2, “Another Justice,” p. 164-5)

Quite the reverse. The subject was never ... advent of another Justice, is integral to the lack constitutive of the human way of being.


==Topicality== 
===1NC T Beyond=== 

Beyond means further in space
<span style="font-size: 16px;">OED ’89</span> (Oxford English Dictionary 1989 Second Edition <[[http://oed.com/view/Entry/18511?redirectedFrom=beyond#eid|http://oed.com/view/Entry/18511?redirectedFrom=beyond#eid]] PB
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">2. </span>**b.**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> of an object regarded simply as a point in space: </span>Past, further on than, at a more distant point or position than.

The mesosphere is 50 km beyond the Earth’s crust.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA</span>, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 7/13/<span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span>, Goddard Earth Sciences Data and Information Services Center, Atmospheric Structure, NASA Official: Steve Kempler, Website Curator: M Hedge, http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov/ozone/additional/science-focus/about-ozone/atmospheric_structure.shtml

The mesosphere, (36k jpeg) a layer extending from approximately 50 km to 80 km<span class="UnderlineChar">, is characterized by</span> decreasing temperatures, which reach 190-180 K at an altitude of 80 km.In this region, concentrations of ozone and water vapor are negligible.Hence the temperature is lower than that of the troposphere or stratosphere.With increasing distance from Earth's surface the chemical composition of air becomes strongly dependent on altitude and the atmosphere becomes enriched with lighter gases.At <span class="UnderlineChar">very high altitudes</span>, the residual gases begin to stratify according to molecular mass, because of gravitational separation.

2. Violation – they only increase monitoring in the atmosphere
3. Voting Issue – __Limits__, allowing affs not beyond the mesosphere explodes the topic - allowing affs that don’t increase outside of the mesosphere allows any number of telescope affs or any aff based on the ground

===1NC T - its=== 
A. Interpretation – the affirmative must mandate the government increase exploration and/or development of space
“Its” indicates possession
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Free Dictionary</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Last Updated </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"><http://www.thefreedictionary.com/its>//DoeS//</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">its (its) adj. The possessive form of it. Used as a modifier before a noun: The airline canceled its early flight to New York.</span>//
//B. Violation – the affirmative claims private sector action instead of the government//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Private contractors are distinct from the federal government</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barbier 7</span> (Carl, US District Judge, TIEN VAN COA, ET AL VERSUS GREGORY WILSON, ET AL CIVIL ACTION NO: 07-7464 SECTION: J(1) UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 87653)//

//However, in their motion to remand, Plaintiffs argue that as <span class="UnderlineChar">an independent contractor</span>//,// P&J is not an employee of the federal government, and consequently does not enjoy derivative immunity and cannot invoke the FTCA. Plaintiffs cite United States v. New Mexico in support of the notion that private contractors<span class="UnderlineChar">, whether prime or subcontractors, </span>are not government employeesnor are they agents of the federal government. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/lnacui2api/mungo/lexseestat.do?bct=A&risb=21_T10427521803&homeCsi=6323&A=0.4336064238087415&urlEnc=ISO-8859-1&&citeString=455%20U.S.%20720&countryCode=USA|455 U.S. 720, 102 S. Ct. 1373, 71 L. Ed. 2d 580 (1982)]]</span>. According to the Court, <span class="UnderlineChar">"[t]</span>he congruence of professional interests<span class="UnderlineChar"> between the contractors and the Federal Government </span>is not complete" because "the contractors remained distinct entities pursuing private ends, and their actions remained [*4] commercial activities carried on for profit." <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/lnacui2api/mungo/lexseestat.do?bct=A&risb=21_T10427521803&homeCsi=6323&A=0.4336064238087415&urlEnc=ISO-8859-1&&citeString=455%20U.S.%20720,%20740&countryCode=USA|Id. at 740]]</span>; see also [[@http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/lnacui2api/mungo/lexseestat.do?bct=A&risb=21_T10427521803&homeCsi=6323&A=0.4336064238087415&urlEnc=ISO-8859-1&&citeString=339%20U.S.%20497&countryCode=USA|Powell v. U.S. Cartridge Co., 339 U.S. 497, 70 S. Ct. 755, 94 L. Ed. 1017 (1950)]].
C. Vote neg
1. __Limits__ – allows the aff to fund __any actor__ like a private company or a different government to do the plan – makes it impossible for the negative to ever be prepared
2. __Presumption__ – they don’t justify USfg action – means you vote negative immediately
==Impact Defense== 
===1NC Space War=== 
1. No space war – 6 reasons
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krepon and Black 9</span> (Michael Krepon, co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, Samuel Black, Research Associate at the Stimson Center, May 2009, “Space Security or Anti-satellite Weapons?” Stimson, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/30887749/Space-Security-or-Anti-Satellite-Weapons?query=ban|www.scribd.com/doc/30887749/Space-Security-or-Anti-Satellite-Weapons?query=ban]])

Why hasn’t space become a shooting gallery?
Every US<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">President</span><span class="UnderlineChar">since</span>Dwight D. ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> open this Pandora’s Box</span>.


__Perception of decline__ means China is relaxed and not aggressive
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang 11</span> (Baohui Zhang – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong (March/April 2011, "The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship," JSTOR))

As Kevin Narizny points out in ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> efforts for space arms control and prevention of an arms race.” 45</span>



There is no such thing as a “Space Pearl Habor” – the US could change satellite trajectory and retaliate, winning the war against China
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 8</span> (Geoffrey Forden is a physicist and research associate in Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Program in Science, Technology, and Society, where his research includes the analysis of Russian and Chinese space systems as well as trying to understand how proliferators acquire the know-how and industrial infrastructure to produce weapons of mass destruction. In 2002-2003, Dr. Forden spent a year on leave from MIT to serve as the first Chief of Multidiscipline Analysis Section for UNMOVIC, the UN agency responsible for verifying and monitoring the dismantlement of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. Prior to joining MIT, he was a strategic weapons analyst in the National Security Division of the Congressional Budget Office after having worked at a number of international particle accelerator centers. January 10, 2008 “How China Loses the Coming Space War” [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin/]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">If we </span>assume <span class="UnderlineChar">that the US </span>... in launching a space war.


===2NC Space War=== 
The attack would be spotted before it hit – US would retaliate __before__ they launched
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 8</span> (Geoffrey Forden is a physicist and research associate in Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Program in Science, Technology, and Society, where his research includes the analysis of Russian and Chinese space systems as well as trying to understand how proliferators acquire the know-how and industrial infrastructure to produce weapons of mass destruction. In 2002-2003, Dr. Forden spent a year on leave from MIT to serve as the first Chief of Multidiscipline Analysis Section for UNMOVIC, the UN agency responsible for verifying and monitoring the dismantlement of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. Prior to joining MIT, he was a strategic weapons analyst in the National Security Division of the Congressional Budget Office after having worked at a number of international particle accelerator centers. January 10, 2008 “How China Loses the Coming Space War” [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin/]])

Four days prior <span class="UnderlineChar">to the attack, </span>... retaliatory bombing <span class="UnderlineChar">by the US</span>.
Only __4 rockets__ can be launched at a time – guaranteed to be spotted by US spy satellites and takes __20 days__ to set up
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 8</span> (Geoffrey Forden is a physicist and research associate in Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Program in Science, Technology, and Society, where his research includes the analysis of Russian and Chinese space systems as well as trying to understand how proliferators acquire the know-how and industrial infrastructure to produce weapons of mass destruction. In 2002-2003, Dr. Forden spent a year on leave from MIT to serve as the first Chief of Multidiscipline Analysis Section for UNMOVIC, the UN agency responsible for verifying and monitoring the dismantlement of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. Prior to joining MIT, he was a strategic weapons analyst in the National Security Division of the Congressional Budget Office after having worked at a number of international particle accelerator centers. January 10, 2008 “How China Loses the Coming Space War” [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin/]])

At the same time that China would be ...or communications satellites at about 22,000 miles.


===1NC Hegemony=== 
US hegemony is inevitable—we’re too far ahead for anyone to catch up
Steven G. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Brooks &</span> William C. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wohlforth 9</span>, Associate Professors of Government at Dartmouth College
[“Reshaping the World Order,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64652/stephen-g-brooks-and-william-c-wohlforth/reshaping-the-world-order]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Now, </span>the conventional wisdom is that the world is rapidly approaching the end of the unipolar system<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">with the United States as the sole superpower.</span>A dispassionate look at the facts shows that this view understates U.S. power as much as recent talk of empire exaggerated it. That the United States weighs more on the traditional scales of world power than has any other state in modern history is as true now as it was<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">when the commentator Charles Krauthammer proclaimed the advent of a "unipolar moment" in these pages nearly</span>two decades ago. The United States continues to account for about half the world's defense spending and one-quarter of its economic output<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Some of the </span>reasons for bearishness concern<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">public policy problems that </span>can be fixed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(expensive </span>health care<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the United States</span>, for example), whereas many<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the </span>reasons for bullishness are more fundamental (such as the greater demographic challenges faced by the United States' potential rivals). So why has opinion shifted<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">so quickly from visions of empire</span>to gloomy declinism<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? One reason is that </span>the United States' successes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">at the turn of the century led to irrational exuberance, thereby</span>set<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ting </span>unreasonably high standards for measuring the superpower's performance<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. From 1999 to 2003, seemingly easy U.S. victories in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq led some to conclude that the United States could do what no great power in history had managed before: effortlessly defeat its adversaries.</span>It was only a matter of time before such pie-in-the-sky benchmarks proved unattainable. Subsequent difficulties in Afghanistan and Iraq dashed illusions of omnipotence, but these upsets hardly displaced the United States as the world's leading state, and there is no reason to believe that the militaries of its putative rivals would have performed any better. The United States did not cease to be a superpower when its policies in Cuba and Vietnam failed in the 1960s<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; bipolarity lived on for three decades. Likewise, the United States remains the sole superpower today.</span>Another key reason for the multipolar mania is "the rise of the rest." Impressed by<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the rapid economic growth of </span>China and India, many write as if multipolarity has already returned. But such pronouncements mistake current trajectories for final outcomes -- a common strategic error with deep psychological roots<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The greatest concern in the Cold War, for example, came not from the Soviet Union's actually attaining parity with the United States but from the expectation that it would do so in the future.</span>Veterans of that era recall how the launch of Sputnik in 1957 fed the perception that Soviet power was growing rapidly<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, leading some policymakers and analysts to start acting as if the Soviet Union were already as powerful as the United States.</span>A state that is rising should not be confused with one that has risen, just as a state that is declining should not be written off as having already declined. China is generally seen as the country best positioned to emerge as a superpower challenger to the United States. Yet depending on how one measures GDP, China's economy is<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> between </span>20 percent<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and 43 percent </span>the size of the United States'<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. More dramatic is the difference in GDP per capita, for which all measures show China's as being less than 10 percent of the United States'.</span>Absent a 1930s-style depression that spares potential U.S. rivals, the United States will not be replaced as the sole superpower for a very long time. Real multipolarity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-- an international system of three or more evenly matched powers --</span>is nowhere on the horizon. Relative power between states shifts slowly. This tendency to conflate trends with outcomes is<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> often </span>driven by the examination in isolation of certain components of state power. If the habit during the Cold War was to focus on military power, the recent trend has been to single out economic output<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. No declinist tract is complete without a passage noting that although the United States may remain a military superpower, economic multipolarity is, or soon will be, the order of the day. </span>Much as highlighting the Soviet Union's military power meant overlooking the country's economic and technological feet of clay, examining only economic output means putting on blinders. In 1991, Japan's economy was two-thirds the size of the United States', which, according to the current popular metric, would mean that with the Soviet Union's demise, the world shifted from bipolarity to, well, bipolarity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>Such a partial assessment of power will produce no<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more </span>accurate<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> an </span>analysis<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">today. Nor will giving in to apprehension about the growing importance of nonstate actors.</span>The National Intelligence Council's report Global Trends 2025 grabbed headlines by forecasting the coming multipolarity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, anticipating a power shift as much to nonstate actors as to fast-growing countries.</span>But nonstate actors are nothing new -- compare<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the scale and scope of </span>today's pirates off the Somali coast with those of their eighteenth-century predecessors or<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the political power of </span>today's multinational corporations with<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that of such behemoths as </span>the British East India Company -- and projections of their rise may well be as much hype as reflections of reality<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And even if the power of nonstate actors is rising, this should only increase the incentives for interstate cooperation; </span>nonstate threats do not affect just the United States<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Most nonstate actors' behavior, moreover, still revolves around influencing the decisions of states. Nongovernmental organizations typically focus on trying to get states to change their policies, and the same is true of most terrorists. </span>When it comes to making, managing, and remaking international institutions, states remain the most important actors -- and the United States is the most important of them. No other country will match the United States' combination of wealth, size, technological capacity, and productivity in the foreseeable future. The world is and will long remain a 1 + x world, with one superpower and x number of major powers<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A shift from 1 + 3 to 1 + 4 or 5 or 6 would have many important consequences, but it would not change the fact that</span>the United States will long be in a far stronger position to lead the world than any other state<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
2. No relationship between US capabilities and peace
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Fettweis 10 –</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Professor of national security affairs @ U.S. Naval War College. [Christopher J. Fettweis, “Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy,” Survival, Volume 52,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">Issue 2 April 2010 , pages 59 – 82//informaworld]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">One potential </span>explanation for <span class="UnderlineChar">the growth of global </span>peace <span class="UnderlineChar">can be dismissed fairly quickly: </span>US actions do not<span class="UnderlineChar"> seem to have </span>contribute<span class="UnderlineChar">d much. The</span> limited evidence suggests <span class="UnderlineChar">that </span>there is little <span class="UnderlineChar">reason </span>to believe in the stabilising power of the US hegemon<span class="UnderlineChar">, and that there is </span>no relation <span class="UnderlineChar">between the relative level of American activism </span>and international stability.Duringthe<span class="UnderlineChar"> 19</span>90s, the U<span class="UnderlineChar">nited </span>St<span class="UnderlineChar">ates </span>cut back on its defence spending<span class="UnderlineChar"> fairly substantially</span>. By 1998, the United States was spending $100 billion less on defence in real terms than it had in 1990, a 25% reduction.29 To internationalists, defence hawks and other believers in hegemonic stability, this irresponsible 'peace dividend' endangered both national and global security. 'No serious analyst of American military capabilities', argued neo-conservatives William Kristol and Robert Kagan in 1996, 'doubts that the defense budget has been cut much too far to meet America's responsibilities to itself and to world peace'.30 And yet the verdict from the 1990s is fairly plain: the world grew <span class="UnderlineChar">more </span>peaceful<span class="UnderlineChar"> while the United States cut its forces. </span>No state<span class="UnderlineChar"> seemed to </span>believe that its security was endangered bya less-capable US<span class="UnderlineChar"> military,</span> or at least none took any action that would suggest such a belief. No <span class="UnderlineChar">militaries were enhanced to address </span>power vacuums<span class="UnderlineChar">; no </span>security dilemmas<span class="UnderlineChar"> drove insecurity or </span>arms races<span class="UnderlineChar">; no </span>regional balancing <span class="UnderlineChar">occurred once the stabilis-ing presence of the US military was diminished. </span>The rest of the world acted as if the threat<span class="UnderlineChar"> of international war </span>was not a pressing concern, despite the reduction <span class="UnderlineChar">in US military capabilities. Most of all, </span>the United States was no less safe<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>The incidence<span class="UnderlineChar"> and magnitude </span>of global conflict declined<span class="UnderlineChar"> while the United States cut its military spending </span>under President Bill Clinton, and kept declining as the George W. Bush administration ramped the spending back up. <span class="UnderlineChar">Complex statistical analysis is unnecessary to reach the conclusion that </span>world peace and US military expenditure are unrelated.



===2NC Hegemony=== 
Even if they did attack, we are too far ahead in space for them to catch up -- space specific
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krepon and Black 9</span> (Michael Krepon, co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, Samuel Black, Research Associate at the Stimson Center, May 2009, “Space Security or Anti-satellite Weapons?” Stimson, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/30887749/Space-Security-or-Anti-Satellite-Weapons?query=ban|www.scribd.com/doc/30887749/Space-Security-or-Anti-Satellite-Weapons?query=ban]])

US Preeminence Without Weapons in Space
US advantages in outer ..<span class="UnderlineChar">. Launch Sites 8 3</span>


===1NC Oil Wars=== 
War has been abandoned as a method of controlling oil

Ismael <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Hossein-zadeh</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,,</span> Teaches economics at Drake University,<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">8</span></span></span> “Are they really oil wars?” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/global_economy/JF25Dj05.html


Not only do the two arguments ...both economic and geopolitical, from war.




Influence outweighs – US doesn’t need war for oil – it already has significant diplomatic clout and intervention can only hurt it

Ismael <span class="CiteChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Hossein-zadeh</span></span>,, Teaches economics at Drake University,<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">200<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">8</span></span></span> “Are they really oil wars?” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/global_economy/JF25Dj05.html


The widely shared view that ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most probably not</span>.


===1NC Radiation=== 
__Resistance__ means no impact to nuclear radiation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schulz ‘7</span> (Matthais, Der Spiegel, “Nuclear Exaggeration”, 11-22, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://wissen.spiegel.de/wissen/dokument/dokument.html?titel=Is+Atomic+Radiation+as+Dangerous+as+We+Thought%3F&id=54059068&top=SPIEGEL&suchbegriff=Hiroshima&quellen]]</span>=)

The more recent meltdown ... not have made sense.
5. Tons of __atmospheric tests in the 60s__ prove nuclear radiation is __empirically denied__
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Trinity Atomic</span> Web Site <span style="font-size: 16px;">01</span> (<span class="f">Feb 1, 2001</span>“The Years of Atmospheric Testing: 1945-1963” [[http://www.cddc.vt.edu/host/atomic/atmosphr/ustable.html]] JT)

Documents
From 1945 to 1963 <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>U.S<span class="UnderlineChar">.A. </span>conductedan <span class="UnderlineChar">extensive campaign of </span>atmospheric nuclear tests, grouped into roughly 20 test "series<span class="UnderlineChar">." </span>After 1963 when the Limited Test Ban Treaty was signed testing for the U.S., Soviet Union, and Great Britain moved underground. France continued <span class="UnderlineChar">atmospheric testing </span>until 1974 and China <span class="UnderlineChar">did so </span>until 1980<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span> This page focuses mainly on U.S. testing because those documents are most readily available.
===1NC Arctic Conflict=== 
No Arctic conflict and no escalation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ackerman 11</span> (Spencer, National Security Reporter @ WIRED, " War For the Arctic: Never Mind," June 8th, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/06/war-for-the-arctic-never-mind/)

It wasn’t long ago that <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>press<span class="UnderlineChar"> was </span>running <span class="UnderlineChar">… Think of it as a </span>diplomatic thaw<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
===1NC Disease=== 
__Double-bind__: either the virus would kill the host too quickly to spread or it wouldn’t be terminal
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Washington Post</span> “Battling an Outbreak Of Hype” 1/19/19<span style="font-size: 16px;">97 </span>

Little wonder, then, that Ryan …<span class="UnderlineChar"> bring us 'the coming plague'.</span>"
===1NC Terrorism=== 
Likelihood of a terror attack is incredibly low – The media and government exaggerate the risk.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Eland 07</span> Senior Fellow and director of the Center on Peace & Liberty @ Independent Institute, Ivan, “The Terror Threat in Perspective” http://antiwar.com/eland/?articleid=10702

<span class="UnderlineChar">U.S. State Department statistics ...</span> accomplice<span class="UnderlineChar"> to the administration effort</span>.

===1NC Warming=== 
Too late to solve warming—too much CO2

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garnet ’10 </span></span>(Andre Garnet, Senior Analyst <span class="at">at </span>Investology, Inc. 8/14/10 , the energy collective, “Slowing CO2 emissions cannot end global warming, but removing CO2 from the atmosphere will”, http://theenergycollective.com/andre-garnet/41653/slowing-co2-emissions-cannot-end-global-warming-removing-co2-atmosphere-will)


Scarcely a day goes ...Earth can dissipate which causes temperature




Satellite data is best and proves no warming

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thomas </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pearson</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, research analyst at CEI, </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, in //Global Warming and Other Eco-myths// edited by Ronald Bailey, pg. 322</span>


<span class="underline0">Highly </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">accurate </span></span>temperature <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span></span><span class="underline0">result in</span> a climate <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">catastrophe</span></span>.



No impact to global warming - only default to high probability if the impact is catastrophic

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strickland 10</span></span> (John K. Strickland, Chairman of the NSS Awards Committee, Member of National Space Institute and the L-5 Society, graduate credits in both Anthropology and Biology. He has been a professional programmer and analyst, 5/10/10, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/strickland1.html]])


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">There are several types of Ice ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> Jurassic, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">with huge new fisheries.</span></span></span>

==Case Neg== 
===SPS Neg=== 
====1NC SPS Solvency==== 

SPS fails -
1. __30 years__ even with a massive tech breakthrough
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Fan et al 6/2</span> (William, Senior Planning Manager at PCCW, Harold Martin, James Wu, Brian Mok, Space Based Solar Power
Industry and Technology Assessment, [[http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf]])

Right now, SPSP is not<span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span> increasing the efficiency gains from using SBSP
2. UV rays destroy SPS
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Taylor 7</span> – Chief of the Space and International Law Division at Headquarters United States Air Force Space Command; B.A, Berry College; J.D. University of Georgia; LL.M. (Air and Space Law), McGill University (Michael W. “Trashing the Solar System One Planet at a Time: Earth’s Orbital Debris Problem,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Fall, 2007)

Without <span class="UnderlineChar">Earth's </span>atmosphere ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> limit the operation of satellites.</span>

3. Tons of technical barriers prevent launch – your hack authors don’t take these into account
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mankins 8</span> (John, Ad Astra, president of the Space Power Association, and former Manager, Advanced Concepts Studies, Office of Space Flight at NASA, Spring, “Inexhaustible Energy from Orbit”, pg. 20, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-%202008.pdf|http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP- 2008.pdf]])

A major barrier to ...<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> of contemporary space operations.)</span>

4. ITAR restrictions prevent sharing of tech
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSSO</span>, National Security Space Office, 10/10/<span style="font-size: 16px;">07,</span> “Space<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">‐</span>Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf//jchen]]

FINDING: The SBSP __...__ __without some special consideration or modification.__

__Updates__
Multiple tech hurdles
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Singh 10/11</span> (Yogendra Singh Tiwari is Vice President Sales at Cable Corporation of India. He has been # Regional Manager - Head Bangalore Branch at Universal Cables Ltd# Manager Marketing (Head-Marketing) at Vindhya Telelinks Limited. Govt Engg CollegeBE, Electrical Engg. Oct 11, 2011 “Your world of tomorrow: Beaming renewable energy from space” http://www.utilityproducts.com/news/2011/10/1518284483/your-world-of-tomorrow-beaming-renewable-energy-from-space.html)

c. The hurdles
<span class="UnderlineChar">Although the concept </span>SPBP<span class="UnderlineChar"> is, ... aircrafts, flying through its path</span>.

====2NC SPS Solvency – Beaming Tech==== 
Beaming not feasible until 2030 at best
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Singh 10/11</span> (Yogendra Singh Tiwari is Vice President Sales at Cable Corporation of India. He has been # Regional Manager - Head Bangalore Branch at Universal Cables Ltd# Manager Marketing (Head-Marketing) at Vindhya Telelinks Limited. Govt Engg CollegeBE, Electrical Engg. Oct 11, 2011 “Your world of tomorrow: Beaming renewable energy from space” http://www.utilityproducts.com/news/2011/10/1518284483/your-world-of-tomorrow-beaming-renewable-energy-from-space.html)

d. Is it feasible?
The feasibility of SPBP<span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span> dream of SBSP concept.

Each SPS system supplies 1 gigawatt of power – it would take thousands of them to power the world
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rapp 7</span> [Donald Rapp, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 2007, Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis, [[http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf]]]

The first concept reviewed ... might be phased in slowly to the energy supply mix.

PV cells for SPS don’t exist – tech breakthrough is needed
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NRC 1</span> (Committee for the Assessment of NASA's Space Solar Power Investment Strategy, Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board, National Research Council, “Laying the Foundation for Space Solar Power: An Assessment of NASA's Space Solar Power Investment Strategy” National Academies Press 10-30-01)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">As stated above, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">improvements ...</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> power generation solely on next-generation, revolutionary, high payoff, high-risk concepts. </span>



====1NC Squo Solves==== 
Status quo solves –
A. Japan is prepared to develop SPS
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schubert 10</span> -- Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc. (Winter, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The</span> European Space Agency ... achieve viable SSP satellites.

B. China has a SPS plan
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Stone 10/3</span> (Christopher Stone is a space policy analyst and strategist. October 3, 2011 National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive? [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1938/1]])

As mentioned previously, ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> operational level SBSP system will be deployed in GEO</span>.

C. Private companies solve
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Betancourt 10</span><span style="color: #000000;"> - third-year student at the University of Maryland School of Law, specializing in environmental and international law (Kiantar, “Space Based Solar Power: Worth the effort?,” 8/28, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://spaceenergy.com/AnnouncementRetrieve.aspx?ID=56407]]</span> )</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">3. SBSP development in ...</span> more <span class="UnderlineChar">competitors </span>to follow<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


====2NC Squo Solves – Japan==== 

Japan pushing even harder for SPS after the disasters – solves the aff

<span style="font-size: 16px;">McCue 11</span> (Dan McCue is a staff writer for the Business Journal.12 July 2011 “Japan continues to pursue dream of solar power harvested from space” http://www.renewableenergymagazine.com/energias/renovables/index/pag/pv_solar/colleft/colright/pv_solar/tip/articulo/pagid/16323/botid/71)



In the wake of<span class="UnderlineChar"> the </span>Fukushima <span class="UnderlineChar">Daiichi nuclear </span>disaster in Japan, many<span class="UnderlineChar"> have </span>speculated<span style="font-size: 8px;">about </span>how the<span style="font-size: 8px;">densely populated and resource poor </span>country will meet its future energy needs<span style="font-size: 8px;"> ...The module will be </span><span class="UnderlineChar">fitted with equipment that will beam electricity to Earth</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>

===SBMD Neg=== 
====1NC Space-Based Laser==== 
It only freezes the missile so it falls back onto its own people
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 2</span> (Geoffrey Forden,Analyst of Russian and Chinese space system at MIT and Strategic Weapons Analyst in the National Security Division of the Congressional Budget Office, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Volume 58, No. 5, p. 48, “Laser defenses: What if they work?”, September 1, 2002, http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid= <span style="font-size: 12px;">427dec45-6a44-4317-8484-7f83fbdfe47e%40sessionmgr4&vid=1&hid=24&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=slh&AN=7306318)</span>

The idea behind missile defenses ...<span style="font-size: 12px;"> resulting in far fewer immediate deaths.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">SBLs only create a hole within the missile causing a devastating explosion – Challenger proves</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 2</span> (Geoffrey Forden,Analyst of Russian and Chinese space system at MIT and Strategic Weapons Analyst in the National Security Division of the Congressional Budget Office, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Volume 58, No. 5, p. 48, “Laser defenses: What if they work?”, September 1, 2002, http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid= <span style="font-size: 12px;">427dec45-6a44-4317-8484-7f83fbdfe47e%40sessionmgr4&vid=1&hid=24&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=slh&AN=7306318)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The U.S. Air Force's A</span>ir<span class="UnderlineChar">b</span>orne<span class="UnderlineChar"> ...</span>solid- and liquid-fueled missiles.

Fuel limitations hurt effectiveness of space based laser defense systems
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Possel 98</span>(William H. Possel, Lt Colonel, USAF July 1998, “Lasers and Missile Defense New concepts for Space-Based and Ground-Based Laser Weapons,” Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Occasional Paper No. 5 Center for Strategy and Technology Air War College)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">T</span>he space-based laser ... is getting these platforms into space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

====1NC Solvency==== 
Missile defense is easily overwhelmed by decoys, countermeasures, and fails even the easiest recent tests
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Butt 11</span> (Yousaf Butt, a nuclear physicist, serves as a scientific consultant to the Federation of American Scientists. September 20, 2011 I.H.T. Op-Ed Contributor The Delusion of Missile Defense http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/21/opinion/21iht-edbutt21.html)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The main problem is that</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> the ... nuclear stockpiles</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> and military expenditures</span>.

===ORS Neg=== 
====1NC HLV PIC==== 

Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 of Operationally Responsive Space excluding use of Hybrid Launch Vehicles.

Its competitive – ORS uses HLVs
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space Daily 6</span> (Staff writers, May 9 "Lockheed Martin To Study Hybrid Launch Vehicle Concept for Air Force" [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Lockheed_Martin_To_Study_Hybrid_Launch_Vehicle_Concept_For_Air_Force.html]])

Part of the Air Force's O<span class="UnderlineChar">perationally </span>R<span class="UnderlineChar">esponsive </span>S<span class="UnderlineChar">pace... contractor team to </span>develop the demonstrator HLV.

The Hybrid Launch Vehicle causes pre-emptive strikes and turns their aff – mistaken for an ICBM
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brown 6</span> (Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine 6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?,” [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8px;">No: Expectations for </span><span class="UnderlineChar">an </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">ORS Launch System</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the world to trust us in a time of hostilities</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>

===DSCOVR Neg=== 
====1NC Ukraine CP==== 

Contention 1 is Solvency
Ukraine wants to do the plan – and their rockets are better
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Anderson 6</span>(Mitchell, Vancouver based researcher and writer. He worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, “Anyone for a DSCOVR Bake Sale?”, October 2nd, [[http://www.desmogblog.com/anyone-for-a-dscovr-bake-sale]], MBIBAS)

Sounds pretty important. What happened? ...<span class="UnderlineChar">otherwise </span>known as pure political pork<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
Contention 2 is Competition
The CP competes –
“Its” indicates possession
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Free Dictionary</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> Last Updated </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"><http://www.thefreedictionary.com/its>//DoeS//</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">its (its) adj. The possessive form of it. Used as a modifier before a noun: The airline canceled its early flight to New York.</span>//
//That means it’s the USFG//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nguyen and Kim 08 </span>(Ngan L.T. Nguyen, graduate from the University of Natural Sciences, Vietnam and pursuing Masters in Computer Sciences at the University of Tokyo, and Jin-Dong Kim, Senior research Associate at University of Manchester, Project Lecturer at University of Tokyo, PhD and Masters in Computer Seicnce at Korea University, Department of Computer Science, University of Tokyo. 2008, Licensed under the Creative CommonsAttribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported, Exploring Domain Differences for the Design of Pronoun Resolution Systems for Biomedical Text, page 631. http://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/home/Roger.Evans/private/coling2008/cdrom/PAPERS/pdf/PAPERS079.pdf)//

//<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The combination of </span>//C netype //and// P semw// features ... features, based on the parse information
===Climate Observation Neg=== 
====1NC Skepticism I/L==== 
US ideology and the CCP policy mean no international action on climate change
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hale 11</span> (Thomas, PhD Candidate in the Department of Politics at Princeton University and a Visiting Fellow at LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics © 2011 Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, 34:1 pp. 89-101, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing,” http://www.twq.com/11winter/docs/11winter_Hale.pdf)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Intergovernmental efforts …</span> at least not in the near future.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama won’t enact climate policies – too focused on the economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cappiello 11</span> [Dina Cappiello is an award-winning environmental journalist who follows the story looking for specific, factual information about environmental problems that communities need in order to push for change. “Gore: On Global Warming, Obama Has Changed Little” 6/22 [[http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory?id=13900390]]]

<span style="font-size: 8px;"> The Democrats' leading environmental messenger, … and was adapted into an Oscar-winning documentary.</span>


====2NC Skepticism I/L – Ideology O/W==== 
Politics outweighs – republicans will never enact legislation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">PBS 11</span> (Sal Gentile, 3/5/11 “House Republicans now officially on record denying science behind climate change”, [[http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/the-daily-need/house-republicans-now-officially-on-record-denying-science-behind-climate-change/7980/]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">House </span>Republicans rejected<span class="UnderlineChar"> several …</span> meanwhile, is taking his case to the Virginia Supreme Court, after being rebuffed by a lower court last year.

Ideology trumps science
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Christoff 7</span> (Dr Peter Christoff, professor of climate policy at the University of Melbourne July 9, 2007 “Climate change is another grim tale to be treated with respect” The Age http://www.theage.com.au/news/opinion/climate-change-is-another-grim-tale-to-be-treated-with-respect/2007/07/08/1183833338608.html)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Climate change </span>deniers should be<span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> The deniers would have us forget to "remember the future".


====1NC Adaptation I/L==== 
Impossible to adapt to climate change – too late
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parkinson 10</span> (Claire L Parkinson is a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, where she's worked since July 1978, with a research emphasis on sea ice and its role in the global climate system. Claire has a B.A. in mathematics from Wellesley College and a Ph.D. in climatology from Ohio State University. She is a fellow of both the American Meteorological Society and Phi Beta Kappa. 2010 The Coming Climate Crisis)

When in the late <span class="UnderlineChar">twentieth century the …</span> under today's circumstances.

====1NC Squo Solves==== 
Status quo solves the aff – the NPP earth observation satellite launched last month solves this advantage
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA 11/10</span> 11.10.11 “NASA's NPP Satellite Acquires First ATMS Measurements” http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/NPP/news/first-light.html

GREENBELT, Md. -- The Advanced Technology Microwave Sounder <span class="UnderlineChar">… forecasts achieved for this year’s events even better in the future</span>."

====2NC Squo Solves==== 
NPP satellite launched last month solves the aff – best earth-observation tech
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA 11/22</span> (Nov. 22, 2011“NASA's NPP Satellite Acquires First VIIRS Image” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/nasas-npp-satellite-acquires-first-viirs-image-2011-11-22)

GREENBELT, Md., Nov. 22, 2011 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- The Visible Infrared Imager Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) onboard … Earth's surface is changing - either from human activity or through climate change."

And JPSS solves the aff
<span style="font-size: 16px;">USA Today 10/28</span> (Weather satellite boosted into orbit, [[http://www.usatoday.com/weather/research/story/2011-10-28/weather-climate-satellite-launch-nasa/50975092/1]])

VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE, California (AP) – <span class="UnderlineChar">After</span> a years-long <span class="UnderlineChar">delay, …</span> expected to orbit the Earth for five years.





==Strategies== 

===Greenhill=== 

====__**R2 vs St Marks TS (NEO Aff)**__==== 
1NC
T-mesosphere
Privates CP
Below mesosphere CP
PPWT CP w/ deterrence by denial link
SKFTA
Credit DA
Security K

2NC
PPWT CP w/ nb
case

1NR
credit da
T-beyond

2NR
Deterrence link turn
Credit DA
case

====__**R3 vs St Marks GM (Asteroids)**__==== 
1NC
T-beyond
Credit DA
SKFTA
Russia CP
Space Mil DA

2NC
Space mil DA
Russia CP
case

1NR
SKFTA

2NR
Russia CP
SKFTA

====**__R6 vs Hoflo CG (SPS)__**==== 
1NC
Anchor tenant cp
SKFTA
Credit downgrade DA
T-its
Russial oil da

2NC
Anchor tenant cp
Credit downgrade DA
case

1NR
case
SKFTA

2NR
Anchor tenant cp
SKFTA


====**__Doubles vs. Carrolton DS (SPS)__**==== 
1NC
Anchor tenant cp
SKFTA
Security K
T-its
credit downgrade on case
case

2NC
Anchor tenant cp
credit downgrade + case

1NR
case
SKFTA

2NR
Anchor tenant cp
SKFTA

===USC=== 
====**__R4 vs. Notre Dame DB (ORS)__**==== 
1NC
Security K
PPWT CP w/ Launches Plank
HLV PIC w/ pre-emption DA
China Bashing Ptix
case w/ space mil turns

2NC
HLV PIC
case w/ space mil turns
PPWT CP

1NR
Politics

2NR
HLV PIC

====**__R6 vs. St Marks BB (Asteroids)__**==== 
1NC
Security K
Commission CP
50 States CP
Payroll tax DA
case

2NC
Commission CP
case

1NR
Payroll tax da

2NR
Commission CP
Politics

====**__Octos vs. Meadows NR (ORS)__**==== 
1NC
Security K
Commission CP
T-beyond
Payroll tax da
case w/ space mil turns
China War Good

2NC
Commission CP
case w. space turns
China war good

1NR
Payroll tax da

2NR
Commission CP
Politics

====__**Quarters vs. Brophy MS (SPS)**__==== 
1NC
Russian oil da
Politics
Anchor tenant cp
case w/ CO2 Ag

2NC
Anchor tenant cp
case

1NR
Payroll tax da

2NR
Anchor tenant cp
Politics

====**__Sems vs. JMFD RR (SPS)__**==== 
<3 Idriss
1NC
Security K
T-development
Visas Adv CP
Commission CP
Payroll tax da
case
-Stimulus bad
-US-India relations bad

2NC
T-development
Security K
Commission CP

1NR
Politics

2NR
Commission CP
Politics

===Glenbrooks=== 

====**R1 Neg vs. Westminster XH (GPS)**==== 
1NC
Commission CP
Security K
PGS DA
PTC Politics

2NC
Security k
Commission cp

1NR
Politics

2NR
Security k

====**R3 Neg vs. St. George's VM (DSCOVR)**==== 
1NC
T substantial
PTC politics da
Environmental security k
Ukraine cp
Adv cp
-data warming plank
-ground resistors plank

2NC
Ukraine CP
Security K
Case

1NR
Politics da
Case

2NR
Ukraine cp
Case

====**R6 Neg vs. Wheeler KS (SPS)**==== 
1NC
Russian Oil DA
Anchor Tenant CP
Security K
PTC politics DA

2NC
Anchor Tenant CP
Case

1NR
Politics DA

2NR
Anchor Tenant CP
Politics DA
Case


===Blake=== 
====**R1 Neg vs. UC Lab RM (Asteroids)**==== 
1NC
Security K
Commission CP
T-its
PTC Politics DA
Adv CP (this is just their Global Science Adv cards w/ the parts about creating a task committee)
Case

2NC
Commission CP
Adv CP
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics
Case

====**R3 Neg vs. Wayzata DH (DSCOVR)**==== 
1NC
Ukraine CP
PTC Politics DA
Environmental Security K
T-Substantial + Exploration
Case

2NC
Ukraine CP
Environmental Security K
Case

1NR
Case
Politics DA

2NR
Ukraine CP
Politics DA

====R5 Neg vs. Edina PP (SBMD - 2AC was wipeout)==== 
1NC
Security K
PTC Politics DA
PPWT CP
Case

2NC
Security K
Case

1NR
Case

2NR
Security K
Case


====**Doubles vs. GBS HJ (EOS)**==== 
1NC
PTC Politics DA
T-Human
NCS CP
Disease Reps K
Case

2NC
Disease Reps K
Case

1NR
Politics DA

2NR
Politics DA
Case


===Golden Desert=== 

====R1 vs. Kent Denver BJ (CLARREO)==== 
1NC
Politics
Russia Oil DA
Security K
NCS CP
Case

2NC
CP
Russia
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics DA
Case

====R4 vs. Westminster BW (Dragnets)==== 
1NC
Politics
Security K
Commission CP
Case

2NC
Security K
Case

1NR
PTC Politics

2NR
Politics
Case

====R5 vs. Bellarmine LV (SBMD)==== 
1NC
Politics DA
Case (Space Mil/BMD Bad)

2NC
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Case
Politics

====Sems vs. CK McKlatchy (EOS)==== 
1NC
Russia Oil DA
Politics
Case

2NC
Russia DA
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics
Case

====Finals vs. Brophy MS (SPS)==== 
1NC
Anchor Tenant CP
Russia Oil DA
Politics DA
Case

2NC
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics
Case


===Cal RR=== 
====R1 vs. Brophy MS (SPS)==== 

**1NC**
Russia Oil DA
PTC Politics
Warming Reps K
Anchor Tenant CP
Case

**2NC**
CP
Case

**1NR**
Politics

**2NR**
CP
Politics
====R3 vs. ICW (ISS)==== 

**1NC**
China Politics DA
Russia Relations DA
Politics
ESA CP
Case (biotech bad)

**2NC**
China DA
ESA CP

Case
**1NR**
Politics

**2NR**
China DA
Case

====R5 vs. Hoflo GS (Dragnets)==== 

**1NC**
Politics
Security K
Private Actor CP - Cal Poly and Stanford to the plan
Case (Space mil da, debris)

**2NC**
CP
Case

**1NR**
Politics

**2NR**
CP
Poitics



===Cal=== 
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Spending money on __new allocations__ costs political capital</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Chattanooga Times Free Press 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [(Tennessee), </span>September 6<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span> 2011, p. C3]</span>
====R2 vs. Locosta GL (Surveillance)==== 
1NC
F/w
Frontier K
EOS PIC
Politics DA
Terror DA (surveillance good)
Case

2NC
Terror DA
Case

1NR
Politics
EOS PIC

2NR
Terror DA
Case


====R4 vs. Nevada Union (Moon Rise)==== 
1NC
Politics
T-should
2016 CP
Visas Adv CP
Case (India-relations bad)

2NC
T
Visas CP
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics
Case

====R5 vs. McKlatchy (EOS)==== 
1NC
Politics
T-EOS
Russia Oil DA
Commission CP
Case

2NC
Commission CP
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
Politics
Case


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>Constitution gives Congress <span class="UnderlineChar">primary </span>power over <span class="UnderlineChar">taxes and </span>spending<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Congress gives money to the executive<span class="UnderlineChar"> branch </span>designated for specificpurposes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>president isn't empowered to take money appropriated<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for, say, the Pentagon, </span>and spend it<span class="UnderlineChar"> instead </span>on a new<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> jobs </span>program of his own design<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">When past presidents have tried to exert economic powers beyond what's given to them by Congress and the Constitution,they've gotten slapped down</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. President Harry </span>Truman tried to take over the steelindustry<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, citing a national emergency, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">but the </span>Supreme Court ruled<span class="UnderlineChar"> the action </span>unconstitutional<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Galston noted. Richard </span>Nixon tried to "impound" money <span class="UnderlineChar">that Congress had appropriated rather than spend it as intended</span>, but Congress struck back<span class="UnderlineChar"> with a budget act that constrained him and effectively denied him the power</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Galston suggested that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">90 to </span>95 percent of what<span class="UnderlineChar"> Obama </span>will recommend "will require someone else's consent<span class="UnderlineChar">," namely </span>Congress<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">'.</span></span>
====Triples vs. GBN (Ground lasers)==== 
1NC
T-beyond
Politics DA
50 States Prizes CP
Space Mil DA
Case (heg bad)

2NC
Space Mil DA
CP
Case

1NR
Politics

2NR
CP
Politics

====Doubles vs. JMFD IR (<3 Idriss - SPS)==== 
1NC
T-Human
Russia Oil DA
Anchor Tenant CP
China Politics DA
Case (Debris and Launches T/; keynes bad)

2NC
China DA
Case

1NR
Russia Oil DA

2NR
China DA
Case

====Quarters vs. ICW DH (ISS)==== 
1NC
China Politics DA
Politics DA
ESA CP
Bioterror K
Case (Biotech bad)

2NC
China Politics DA
ESA CP
Case (Biotech bad)

1NR
Politics DA

2NR
China Politics DA
ESA CP
Case

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">After sounding the alarm</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> with Congressional budget </span><span class="UnderlineChar">cutters and conducting an extraordinary outreach campaign</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> to garner support, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">NOAA was ultimately successful in obtaining</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> the majority of increased funding requested in </span><span class="UnderlineChar">its</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> 2012 </span><span class="UnderlineChar">budget to keep</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> the Joint Polar Satellite System (</span><span class="UnderlineChar">JPSS</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">) program on track. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Without the funding, NOAA warned that program delays would leave gaps in satellite data coverage in the next 3-5 years compromising medium range forecasts (3-10 days), especially for high impact weather such as winter storms, extreme cold/heat spells, tornado outbreaks, and hurricanes. This would have the effect, NOAA argued, of endangering public safety and diminishing capabilities for disaster preparedness, emergency response and recovery, and protection of critical infrastructure. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">But the Congressional authorization for increased funding of JPSS has some unpublicized consequences.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> Except for a relatively small increase in that budget (compared to the previous continuing resolution), </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">JPSS</span> funding <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">comes</span> “out of hide</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">”, i.e., </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">at the expense of </span>other important NOAA programs, including climate, basic weather/climate research, components of other satellite programs</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">, and fisheries and coastal/ocean resources. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">It’s not clea</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">r (seemingly even within NOAA at this time) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">how this JPSS “tax” will be spread amongst these programs</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> within the boundaries of a “Rob Peter to Pay Paul” zero sum game. Possibly the biggest casualty of NOAA’s hard fought, top priority battle to fund JPSS is Congressional denial to provide its FY12 request to fund the replacement of COSMIC, the Constellation Observing System for Meteorology, Ionosphere & Climate. COSMIC is a joint U.S.-Taiwan 6-microsatellite demonstration mission that was launched in April 2006. COSMIC uses Global Positioning System Radio Occultation (GPS-RO) to provide high-resolution vertical profiles of temperature and humidity distributed uniformly around the globe in all weather conditions. Importantly, COSMIC data has higher resolution in the vertical - but lesser horizontal resolution – than JPSS and, unlike JPSS, data coverage and accuracy is not compromised by the presence of clouds and precipitation. COSMIC data has been shown experimentally to provide significant positive impact on global forecast models and is now incorporated operationally in most global systems, including NOAA’s GFS weather forecast model (along with the observations from polar satellites). However, the COSMIC system is in a state of decline and unlikely to survive more than two years or so. It is believed that observations from COSMIC and polar satellites complement one another (rather than being redundant) such that the positive contribution to forecast accuracy is greater than one or the other system alone. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">A</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">nother potential </span><span class="UnderlineChar">casualty of budget constraints was funding for NOAA to convert </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">a satellite, the Deep Space Climate Observatory (</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">DSCOVR</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">), </span><span class="UnderlineChar">initially slated for climate research, to a space weather system able to replace</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;"> the aging Advanced Composition Explorer (</span><span class="UnderlineChar">ACE) in providing warnings of impending potentially disastrous solar storms</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">. In the end, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Congress approved funding significantly below the amount NOAA requested</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">. Nevertheless, NOAA believes (somehow, to be determined) that it will be able to meet the 2014 target completing refurbishment of DSCOVR. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">More <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">problematic and still unresolved is</span> whether the yet to be approved Defense Department budget will include the necessary funds for <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">contracting</span> acquisition <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and preparation of the launch vehicle</span> (rocket) <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">for DSCOVR in this time frame</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-fareast-language: X-NONE;">. Stay tuned. The above is intended only as a succinct summary of the essential elements extracted (with difficulty) from the morass of a seemingly endless verbiage (e.g., congressional hearings, NOAA briefings, Congressional Record, and personal contacts) in the complexities of the federal budget process. A more extended version could become an enlightening (perhaps comical) book on the process, but one I’m not going to write. </span></span>