[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Preemption K</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Targeted killing is the ultimate form of preemption—you have no chance to respond to these weapons and they operate as the State’s tool for destroying potential threats**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Goh 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Irving Goh is a Fellow at Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://fastcapitalism.com/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">At present, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">__the time of__…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">away that chance of hypothesis.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-color: white;">And, the logic of preemption will never stop—today’s global military violence is structured by a system of fear, which must identify and destroy new targets to keep us preemptively safe</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Massumi 7**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Brian Massumi is a Professor at the European Graduate School “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption” Theory and Event 10:2, 2007 Project Muse</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">__Preemption is like deterrence in…in-built tendency to be never-ending__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**And, the result of affirming is the normalization of preemption as the preferable strategy of war—the impact is weapons shift and nuclear escalation**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Goh 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Irving Goh is a Fellow at Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://fastcapitalism.com/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">__The articulation of wait cannot…preemptive in all its forms__.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Next, the role of the ballot is a denial of the preemptive. Contrary to popular belief, not everyone is trying to destroy the United States, and those that try to articulate this point are alienated and wronged by the preemptive. Those wronged, the minority, must be exposed.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Goh 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Irving Goh is a Fellow at Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://fastcapitalism.com/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact remains that the…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">__preemptive, so must this persistence__.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Finally, the alternative is to contest and disagree with preemptive state practices. Only when this happens can we break the confines of pre-emption. The alternative brings about new norms that break out of pre-emption and provide a better alternative action that solves the aff impacts.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Goh 6**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Irving Goh is a Fellow at Harvard University, Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://fastcapitalism.com/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">__Life must not imitate fiction__…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">none other than but now.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Terrorism Good --- Free Trade</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Terrorism increases free trade between countries—empirically proven** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Abadie and Gardeazabal 8**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Alberto Abadie, PhD in Economics from MIT, is a professor of Public Policy at Harvard University and Javier Gardeazabal is a professor at Universidad del Pais Vasco, “Terrorism and the World Economy” European Economic Review, Vol. 52, No. 1, January 2008 pg. 21</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">In this paper we have…be an important avenue through</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Free trade promotes peace and decreases the likelihood of war—empirically proven**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Griswold 98** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Daniel Griswold is an Associated Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, “Peace on Earth, Free Trade for Men” The Cato Institute, December 31, 1998 http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Advocates of free trade have…pursue a policy of free trade.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Terrorism Good --- Heg</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Terrorism is key to heg and military dominance** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**DuBoff 3** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard DuBoff is a Professor of Economics at Bryn Mawr College “US hegemony: Continuing Decline, Enduring Danger” 2003 http://home.aubg.bg/students/SIG020/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nowadays, cooperation among states is…power on the international arena. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Khalilzad 95** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zalamy Khalilzad is a Former Assistant Professor of Political Science at Colombia University, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2, Spring 1995 p. 84</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Under the third option, the…multipolar balance of power system</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>