[[toc]]
=Contact Us= 
Aff: [[mailto:db8erbibas@gmail.com|db8erbibas@gmail.com]] (Mark)
Neg: [[mailto:pzamp94@gmail.com|pzamp94@gmail.com]] (Paula)

all of the neg offcase cites will put up after every tournaments email us for case/aff cites/if we are missing something
=Aff= 
==ORS Aff== 
===plan=== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space for the purpose of developing a military launch infrastructure that includes launch on demand, small satellite development and constellation architecture, rapid reconstitution, improvement of space situational awareness, maneuverability, and hardening of military satellites.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 19px;">Adv 1</span>__**</span>
**Contention 1: Deterrence**

**Space systems are vulnerable now – results in attacks and kills heg**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) ….and robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

**Space conflict is inevitable—military empiricism proves**
**Smith 11**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)</span>

__It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from …chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.__<span style="font-size: 7px;">21 </span>


**Deterrence will inevitably fail in the status quo—plan is key to solve**
**<span style="color: black;">Rendleman 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Colonel, 1 U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">The strategy to deter nuclear attack worked throughout the Cold War; the Soviet Union was \... particularly against kinetic-kill ASATs and jammers.</span>

**sound inferences prove that the Chinese are preparing for an inevitable space conflict**
**Wortzel 8**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

__The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, ….will have access to space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>

**We control consensus—it causes rapid escalation**
**Morgan 10**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Given the great extent to which the United States…</span>__and rapid escalation__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.4</span>

**Risk of conflict with China is high – going first solves deterrence and risk of attacks**
**MacDonald 11**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)</span>
__One characteristic of too many wars …the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.__


**That crushes deterrence, causes invasion of Taiwan and nuclear preemption**
**<span style="color: black;">Burke 6</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])</span>

__The erosion of the US ability to execute the …. interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.57 </span>

**Even rogue states could take out US assets**
**Smith 11**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute of the dominant … of destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.</span>

**Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony**
**Marshall 8**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

__Space assets are one of the most critical …__<span style="font-size: 7px;">the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.</span>


**The impact is nuclear war**
**Kagan, 7** <span style="font-size: 7px;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">If </span>__<span style="color: black;">the world is</span>__ __marked by the persistence of unipolarity…____<span style="color: black;">will provide an easier path</span>__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>

**A firm commitment to ORS solves**
**Sejba 10**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - USAF Congressional Budget Liaison Officer Budget and Appropriations Liaison Directorate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget Secretary of the Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC (Timothy, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?”, High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])</span>

__The space domain,__<span style="font-size: 7px;"> often referred to as “The High Frontier,” </span>__…low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>


**Expanding ORS will deter attacks against US space assets**
**<span style="color: #101010;">Putman 9</span>**<span style="color: #101010; font-size: 7px;"> – USAF Major, </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">operations officer, 328th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force Weapons School, former chief,</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">DSCS III Operations duties at the 3rd Space Operations Squadron</span><span style="color: #101010; font-size: 7px;"> (Christopher, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites: Building a Defensive Space Strategy”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) HANE = High Altitude Nuclear Event</span>

__The U__<span style="font-size: 7px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7px;">tates </span>__has taken some initial steps …__<span style="font-size: 7px;"> guidance to establish “contingency plans to ensure that U.S. forces can maintain or duplicate access to information from space assets and accelerating programs to harden U.S. satellites against attack.”58</span>

**<span style="color: #231f20;">Plan deters attacks without being perceived as weaponization</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Butterworth 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">President, Aries Analytics, Inc. Fellow, George C. Marshall Institute (Robert, “Assuring Space Support Despite ASATs,” [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/575.pdf]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">Responses</span>
__<span style="color: #231f20;">Satellites can be defended …**could scarcely be considered escalatory**</span>__**<span style="color: #231f20;">.</span>**

**Small satellites create redundancy – makes attacks impossible**
**Smith 11**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Although offense is the dominant form of war in space today, this will not always be the case. </span>__… swarms improve global access and presence__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>

**Plan key to overall deterrence**
**Morgan 10**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Space Deterrence and General Deterrence</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">Although this assessment focuses specifically on deterrence…, </span>**__effective space deterrence fortifies general deterrence__**__and stability__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">A stable, predictable funding stream is vital to ORS technology development</span>**
**<span style="color: #101010;">Dinerman 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 7px;">– DOD space consultant, and senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch (Taylor, The Space Review, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">Tactical IR satellites: operationally responsive spacecraft?,” 8/7, </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/675/1]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">The </span>__<span style="color: black;">troops on the ground…, the better for the troops on the ground and for America as a whole.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**ORS is globally inevitable**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Wertz 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - president of Microcosm, a space technology small business in Los Angeles, and the general chairman for the first five Responsive Space Conferences (James, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">It’s time to get our ORS in gear,” The Space Review, 1/7, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1032/1]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Can the US overcome bureaucratic impediments in order to make it happen?</span>
<span style="font-size: 7px;">Here we would have to say that no one knows. It may or may not occur for all …</span>
**__irrespective of whether the US chooses to do so__****<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>**


===Adv 2=== 

**Contention 2: Development**

**High launch costs inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith 10**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> – </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">historian of technology at Texas A&M University</span><span style="font-size: 7px;"> (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]</span>

__Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle flights this year__<span style="font-size: 7px;">, as intended by President Bush, </span>__and the cancellation of the overcost and overweight Constellation program, are the promising initiatives to develop and deploy new generations ….__<span style="font-size: 7px;">Making access to space affordable will create vast economic as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Resource wars are inevitable and risk extinction – plan is key to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Collins and Autino 10**</span><span style="font-size: 7px;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)**</span>

**The major source of<span class="Underline"> social friction, …</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Chinese governments in growing space capabilities may ﬁnally jolt the space industries of Russia, America, Europe and Japan out of their long economic stagnation, and induce them to apply their accumulated know-how to economically valuable activities—notably supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>**

Plan creates demand which solves the aerospace industry and the commercial sector
<span style="color: black;">Rendleman 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>**

**__Given the importance of a …__<span style="font-size: 7px;">infrastructure would also serve as a vital part of a space assurance strategy.</span>**


Plan solves
<span style="color: black;">Colón</span><span style="color: #101010;"> 10</span>**<span style="color: #101010; font-size: 7px;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">Lt Col, USAF, former </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” </span><span style="font-size: 7px;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">)</span>**

<span style="color: #365f91;">A New Approach to Space…</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Only then will the adversary’s gain/loss assessment dictate not </span>to attack__<span style="font-size: 7px;">; effectively deterring him.</span>**

Perception is key
Felt 10**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - USAF Commander, Space Test Operations Squadron Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB, New Mexico (Eric, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” High Frontier, May, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf]])</span>

__Industry watching for decisive …____to actually field significant operational capability__<span style="font-size: 7px;">.</span>


==DSCOVR Aff - Doubles Wake Forest== 

**The advantage is try or die**

**Extinction is inevitable WITHIN 2 YEARS because of a power grid shutdown – must act now**
**Britt 9** (Robert, Fox News, “Powerful Solar Storm Could Shut Down U.S. for Months”, January 9th, [[http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,478024,00.html]], MBIBAS)
__A new study from the ….__<span style="font-size: 8px;">statement released with the report. </span>

**And several other scenarios cause extinction**

**__Scenario 1 is the economy:__**

**Airline industry key to the economy**
**Campbell-Hill Aviation Group ’06** (Campbell-Hill Aviation Group is an economic and aviation consultant research group, this report was prepared for the Air Transport Association of America: “Commercial Aviation and the American Economy,” March, h[[ttp://www.smartskies.org/NR/rdonlyres/E20C3048-9FD4-46D8-91F1-6]]303C4148C5A/0/CommercialAviationEconomyMar06.pdf, MBIBAS)
__The U.S. civil aviation ….__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> of national employment.1 </span>

**Failure to act causes damages costing trillions of dollars – collapses the economy**
**Wall 11** (Mike, Senior Writer Space.com, “Catastrophe Looming? The Risks of Rising Solar Storm Activity”, February 17th, [[http://www.space.com/10893-major-solar-storm-earth-risks.html]], MBIBAS)
__The sun let loose its most ….are higher than in the past__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Space assets are vital to the economy</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Sterner, 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 6px;"> - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “</span><span style="font-size: 6px;">Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 6px;">Ironically, …., </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">if one digs deeply enough into any economic activity in the 21st century, a space element will be involved.</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 6px;"> And as the world's most developed space power, the United States has led the way in integrating space into its economic foundations.</span>

**GPS is key to the financial industry**
**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.
<span style="font-size: 8px;">For many Americans, the most …. only if we are willing to step back in time about 30 years.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Congressional EMP Commission, 04**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span class="Underline">Virtually all American **economic activity ….** on critical financial markets.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">Economic collapse will lead to extinction</span>
**Bearden 2000** (Tom; Lt. Col. U.S. Army – Retired, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly” 6/24 http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm accessed 8/6/04 wdc/wbw)

__History bears out that desperate …., at least for many decades__

**__Scenario 2 is Meltdowns:__**

<span class="Underline">**Failure to act will jack the power grid, causing nuclear meltdown- must be ready by 2013**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Oakland Press 11** </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">[4/24 Experts: Move to protect nuke plants from solar flare damage,  By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN - Scripps Howard News Service, http://www.therepublic.com/view/story/pulse030611/pulse030611/ Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">It has happened before and</span><span class="Underline">**it will happen**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">…..</span><span class="Underline"> **fires that would release deadly radiation.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Reactor meltdowns risk extinction:**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sanders 99**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> KEVIN, 3/15/19</span><span class="Underline">99</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> (currently director of special projects at the New York City-based War & Peace Foundation</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">“T H E - N I G H T M A R E - S C E N A R I O,” http://www.co-intelligence.org/y2k_nukes1.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">**Most worrisome, because of their …. to return the planet to the insects**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">.</span>


**__Scenario 3 is the Steel Industry__**

**Status quo ensures a collapse of the auto industry**
**Hayden 10** (Kevin, Quoting NASA and the EMP Commission, “EMP Attack and Solar Storms: The Complete Guide”, August 1st, [[http://www.truthistreason.net/emp-attack-and-solar-storms-the-complete-guide]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">So, as you can see, both </span>__a massive solar storm__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and an EMP ….. industrialized nations aren’t effected, as well. </span>


**That would collapse the steel industry**
**Agence France Presse 9** (“Global steel industry awaits China, US auto turnaround”, April 12, Lexis, MBIBAS)

__Steel is on edge__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and the global industry is …..</span>__get out of the crisis intact," she said.__

**The Impact is Extinction**
**Buyer 7** (Steve, Member of the House of Representatives, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908, MBIBAS)

__A robust steel industry is fundamental …..**very existence as a nation**__**__.__**

**__Observation Two: Solvency__**

**The plan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations**
**Spaceflight Now 11**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (Feb 21</span> “<span style="font-size: 13px;">NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]])</span>

**__The White House is requesting $47 ….. the next solar maximum in 2013.__**


**Early detection solves – satellites and transformers would be safely shut off**
**Space.com 10** (Space.Com, late breaking headlines about outer space, space flight, science and astronomy news. “More Active Sun Means Nasty Solar Storms Ahead”, June 9th, [[http://www.space.com/8563-active-sun-means-nasty-solar-storms.html]], MBIBAS)
__People of the 21st century rely on …..__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Administration (NOAA)’s Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colo. </span>

**And action now is critical – 2 reasons:**

**a.) Solar storm peak is coming now – it will be worse than previous storms**
**Lovett 11** (Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, [[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]], MBIBAS)
__On February 14 the sun erupted …..events could be very powerful__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**b.) growing dependence on electronic devices makes the impact catastrophic**
**Hamilton 10** (Jon, NPR, “Solar Storms could be Earths Next Katrina”, February 26th, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=124125001]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">"It's important to understand that, along with …..</span> **__that are vulnerable to electromagnetic radiation__.**


**PLAN**

**__<span style="font-size: 18px;">Plan</span>__****__:__ United States federal government should fund an observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.**

===1ac greenhill=== 
**Extinction is inevitable WITHIN 2 YEARS because of a power grid shutdown – must act now**
**Britt 9** (Robert, Fox News, “Powerful Solar Storm Could Shut Down U.S. for Months”, January 9th, [[http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,478024,00.html]], MBIBAS)
__A new study from the National Academy of ….on advanced technological systems,"__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Baker said in a statement released with the report. </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Solar storm peak coming in 2013 will cause worldwide blackouts </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">I</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">nternational Business Times 9-14</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (2011, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]], PZ) </span>
Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar<span class="Underline">, …**or even decades**, as geomagnetic currents attracted by the storm could debilitate the transformers."</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">This triggers every scenario for conflict </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">I</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">nternational Business Times 9-14</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (2011, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]], PZ) </span>
<span class="Underline">How the end of modern civilization will most likely occur </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">….to run the generators the keep the coolant pumps functioning.</span>


**And several other scenarios cause extinction**

**__Scenario 1 is the economy:__**

**Airline industry key to the economy**
**Campbell-Hill Aviation Group ’06** (Campbell-Hill Aviation Group is an economic and aviation consultant research group, this report was prepared for the Air Transport Association of America: “Commercial Aviation and the American Economy,” March, h[[ttp://www.smartskies.org/NR/rdonlyres/E20C3048-9FD4-46D8-91F1-6]]303C4148C5A/0/CommercialAviationEconomyMar06.pdf, MBIBAS)
__The U.S. civil aviation sector__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (…</span>__responsible for 5.8 percent of gross output__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">(i.e., economic activity), 5.0 percent of personal earnings and 8.8 percent of national employment.1 </span>

**Failure to act causes damages costing trillions of dollars – collapses the economy**
**Wall 11** (Mike, Senior Writer Space.com, “Catastrophe Looming? The Risks of Rising Solar Storm Activity”, February 17th, [[http://www.space.com/10893-major-solar-storm-earth-risks.html]], MBIBAS)
__The sun let loose its most powerful eruption…, the stakes are higher than in the past__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Space assets are vital to the economy</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Sterner, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15,[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">Ironically, even as space has moved away from the center of American culture, it has …power, the United States has led the way in integrating space into its economic foundations.</span>

**GPS is key to the financial industry**
**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.
<span style="font-size: 8px;">For many Americans, the most visible images of space are the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station. . In total, today's space industry exceeds $100 billion annually world-wide, and is projected to exceed $150 billion per year by 2010. We could do without space capabilities, but only if we are willing to step back in time about 30 years.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Congressional EMP Commission, 04</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span class="Underline">Virtually all American **economic activity depends …immediate systemic effect** on critical financial markets.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Economic collapse will lead to extinction</span>
**Bearden 2000** (Tom; Lt. Col. U.S. Army – Retired, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly” 6/24 http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm accessed 8/6/04 wdc/wbw)

__History bears out that desperate nations …. perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades__


**__Scenario 2 is the Steel Industry__**

**Status quo ensures a collapse of the auto industry**
**Hayden 10** (Kevin, Quoting NASA and the EMP Commission, “EMP Attack and Solar Storms: The Complete Guide”, August 1st, [[http://www.truthistreason.net/emp-attack-and-solar-storms-the-complete-guide]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">So, as you can see, both </span>__a massive solar storm__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and an EMP event </span>__….__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> And that is if the other industrialized nations aren’t effected, as well. </span>


**That would collapse the steel industry**
**Agence France Presse 9** (“Global steel industry awaits China, US auto turnaround”, April 12, Lexis, MBIBAS)

__Steel is on edge__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> and the global industry is cutting back hard</span>, __… to see if the auto sector in the US will get out of the crisis intact," she said.__

**The Impact is Extinction**
**Buyer 7** (Steve, Member of the House of Representatives, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908, MBIBAS)

__A robust steel industry is fundamental … **steel industry is fundamental to our ability to protect our very existence as a nation**__**__.__**



**Scenario 3: pandemics**

**A solar storm would disrupt emergency services**
**Hough 10** (Andrew, The Telegraph, “Nasa warns solar flares from ‘huge space storm’ will cause devastation”, June 14th, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/7819201/Nasa-warns-solar-flares-from-huge-space-storm-will-cause-devastation.html]], MBIBAS)
__National power grids could overheat__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">… damage will be hard as that takes time.” </span>



**That causes epidemic outbreaks**
<span class="Heading2Char1">Mason 8</span>[Vanessa Mason, Healthcare specialist, Universal Health Care Series: The National Security Argument, http://vanessamason.wordpress.com/2008/08/16/universal-health-care-series-the-national-security-argument/]
<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">The flu epidemic of 1918 killed …. the right direction.</span>__</span>


**Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char1">Fox 97</span> [Col. William, M.D., Commander of Bayne-Jones Army Hospital, Command Surgeon of the Joint Readiness Training Center, medical degree from the Uniformed Services University of the Health Services, Winter 1997-98, Parameters, Vol. XXVII, No. 4, “Phantom Warriors: Disease as a Threat to US National Security,” http://carlisle-www.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/97winter/fox.htm)

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">HIV is a pandemic killer without </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">deliberate use of w</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">eapons of </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">m</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">ass </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">d</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">estruction.</span>



**The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.**


Solvency -
**Your Disads are non-starters – funding and technology for the plan is done**
**Clark 9** (Spaceflight Now, “Mothballed satellite sits in warehouse, waits for new life”, March 2nd, http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n0903/01dscovr/, MBIBAS)

__The__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> long-grounded </span>__Deep Space Climate Observatory may be revived__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> …. If they don't start working and spending money to remove things, that would be wonderful." </span>


**The plan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations**
**Spaceflight Now 11**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (Feb 21</span> “<span style="font-size: 13px;">NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]])</span>

**__The White House is requesting $47 …. Forecasters predict the next solar maximum in 2013.__**


**Early detection solves – satellites and transformers would be safely shut off**
**Space.com 10** (Space.Com, late breaking headlines about outer space, space flight, science and astronomy news. “More Active Sun Means Nasty Solar Storms Ahead”, June 9th, [[http://www.space.com/8563-active-sun-means-nasty-solar-storms.html]], MBIBAS)
__People of the 21st century rely on high-tech systems …__<span style="font-size: 8px;">s Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colo. </span>

**And action now is critical – 2 reasons:**

**a.) Solar storm peak is coming now – it will be worse than previous storms**
**Lovett 11** (Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, [[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]], MBIBAS)
__On February 14 the sun erupted ….____events could be very powerful__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**b.) growing dependence on electronic devices makes the impact catastrophic**
**Hamilton 10** (Jon, NPR, “Solar Storms could be Earths Next Katrina”, February 26th, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=124125001]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">"It's important to understand that, along with other types of natural hazards, (</span>__solar__<span style="font-size: 8px;">) </span>__…. **that are vulnerable to electromagnetic radiation**__**.**


**DSCOVR allows for early detection of solar storms coming – ACE fails – 12 years in expiration**
**Clark 11** (Spaceflight Now, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”, February 21st, [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The </span>__White House is requesting $47 million in fiscal …**ACE is operating 12 years beyond its design life and could fail at any time**__<span style="font-size: 8px;">.</span>


**ACE and SOHO will fail – plan resolves that**
**Butt 10** (Yousaf, staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University. “The EMP Threat: fact, fiction, and response”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]], MBIBAS)
__Continued monitoring of the space environment is essential__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>__…directive cannot be overstressed.__

**Even if they win that ACE doesn’t fail - 2013 solar storms peak will cause the fragile ACE satellite to malfunction**
**CARV 11** (Concept Analysis Research Vault, develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, “Satellite Outages Now Critical Data Problem”, May 19th, [[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The Advanced Composition Explorer ( </span>__ACE__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> ) ….</span> **__its NASA calculated life expectance.__**

===<span style="font-size: 8px;">no war advantage</span>=== 

**no war**

**1. war won’t happen**
**Easterbrook, 05**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, 05 [Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">] </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, …. </span>__The world ought to take notice.__

**2. No extinction**
**__Martin__**, PhD in theoretical physics, associate professor in Science, Technology and Society at the University of Wollongong, 19**__82__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Brian, “Critique of Nuclear Extinction,” Journal of Peace Research, http://jpr.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/19/4/287)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">To summarise the above points, **__a major global nuclear …__** such as Portugal, Ireland and British Columbia.</span>


**3. No major power war**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Mandelbaum</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University**,** 19**__99__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Michael, Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy, The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations “Is Major War Obsolete?”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Why is this so? Most simply, **__the costs have risen ….__** or at least suspended. A pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king.”</span>

**4. Costs have risen and benefits shrunk**
**Jervis, 02** <span style="font-size: 11px;">- Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics, Columbia University</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Robert, , “Theories of War in an Era of Leading Power Peace”. American Political Science Review 96:1–14.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">My explanation for the development and maintenance of the Community …people believe that their economic fates are linked more positively than negatively to the rest of the Community.</span>

**5. Fear of conventional escalation checks war**
**Mueller, 88** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester, International Security, Fall)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">THE BELIEF IN ESCALATION. </span>__Those who started World Wars I and II__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> ….</span> __major powers would find intolerably costly.__

**6. The trend of stability is increasing**
**Mueller, 88** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester, International Security, Fall)</span>
__It seems reasonable__<span style="font-size: 11px;">, though perhaps risky, </span>__….at least war of that scale and type.__
===Meadows 1AC=== 
Solar storms

**Extinction is inevitable WITHIN 2 YEARS because of a power grid shutdown – must act now**
**Britt 9** (Robert, Fox News, “Powerful Solar Storm Could Shut Down U.S. for Months”, January 9th, [[http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,478024,00.html]], MBIBAS)
__A new study from the National Academy of Sciences outlines … the results can be devastating to modern societies that depend in a myriad of ways on advanced technological systems,"__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> Baker said in a statement released with the report. </span>

**And action now is critical – 2 reasons:**

**a.) Solar storm peak is coming now – it will be worse than previous storms**
**Lovett 11** (Richard, National Geographic, “What if the biggest solar storm on record happened today?”, March 2nd, [[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/03/110302-solar-flares-sun-storms-earth-danger-carrington-event-science/]], MBIBAS)
__On February 14 the sun erupted with the largest solar ….events could be very powerful__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. </span>

**b.) growing dependence on electronic devices makes the impact catastrophic**
**Hamilton 10** (Jon, NPR, “Solar Storms could be Earths Next Katrina”, February 26th, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=124125001]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">"It's important to understand that, along with other types of natural hazards, (</span>__solar__<span style="font-size: 8px;">) </span>__storms can cause impacts__<span style="font-size: 8px;">," </span>__… **electronic devices that are vulnerable to electromagnetic radiation**__**.**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Solar storms trigger every scenario for conflict </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">I</span>****<span style="text-decoration: none;">nternational Business Times 9-14</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (2011, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” [[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]], PZ) </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">*we do not endorse the trivialization of the word Holocaust</span>
<span class="Underline">How the end of modern civilization will most likely occur </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">…. (because all the transformers are blown up) and yet simultaneously have to be fed a steady stream of emergency fuels to run the generators the keep the coolant pumps functioning.</span>


**And several other scenarios cause extinction**

**__Scenario 1 is the economy:__**

**Airline industry key to the economy**
**Campbell-Hill Aviation Group ’06** (Campbell-Hill Aviation Group is an economic and aviation consultant research group, this report was prepared for the Air Transport Association of America: “Commercial Aviation and the American Economy,” March, h[[ttp://www.smartskies.org/NR/rdonlyres/E20C3048-9FD4-46D8-91F1-6]]303C4148C5A/0/CommercialAviationEconomyMar06.pdf, MBIBAS)
__The U.S. civil aviation sector__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (including air transportation, ….</span> __responsible for 5.8 percent of gross output__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">(i.e., economic activity), 5.0 percent of personal earnings and 8.8 percent of national employment.1 </span>

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Space assets are vital to the economy</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Sterner, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15,[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;">Ironically, even as space has moved away from the center of American culture, it has become ever more integrated with the international system. </span><span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="color: black;">….a space element will be involved.</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7px;"> And as the world's most developed space power, the United States has led the way in integrating space into its economic foundations.</span>

**GPS is key to the financial industry**
**Lord 5**, Lance W. "Why America Needs Space: The Prerequisites for Success." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 2, No. 1 (September 2005): 2-3.
<span style="font-size: 8px;">For many Americans, the most visible images of space are the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station….</span> __connectivity**.**__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">In total, today's space industry exceeds $100 billion annually world-wide, and is projected to exceed $150 billion per year by 2010. We could do without space capabilities, but only if we are willing to step back in time about 30 years.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The financial industry is key to the rest of the economy</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Congressional EMP Commission, 04</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard, Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report,</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBQQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.empcommission.org%2Fdocs%2Fempc_exec_rpt.pdf&rct=j&q=Congressional%20EMP%20Commission&ei=cjt1TdfaJtK3tgfbrpSEDw&usg=AFQjCNEERJCd0cHbfWtuQr8FqRGPZ-CcMg&sig2=i1qoZKZiPK8O69qYi7jX4g&cad=rja Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>
<span class="Underline">Virtually all American **economic activity depends upon …. would have an immediate systemic effect** on critical financial markets.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Economic collapse will lead to extinction</span>
**Bearden 2000** (Tom; Lt. Col. U.S. Army – Retired, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly” 6/24 http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm accessed 8/6/04 wdc/wbw)

__History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions__…. __and perhaps most of the biosphere,__ __at least for many decades__




**Scenario 2 is Nuclear Meltdowns –**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Solar Storms will jack the power grid, causing nuclear meltdown- must be ready by 2013</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Oakland Press 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[4/24 Experts: Move to protect nuke plants from solar flare damage,  By BARTHOLOMEW SULLIVAN - Scripps Howard News Service, http://www.therepublic.com/view/story/pulse030611/pulse030611/ Accessed 3/7/11 JCP]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">It has happened before and</span><span class="Underline">**it will happen**</span><span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">again</span>: <span class="Underline">**an Earth-bound electromagnetic pulse from the sun … exposing the hot, zirconium-clad rods and sparking fires that would release deadly radiation.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reactor meltdowns risk extinction:</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sanders 99</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;"> KEVIN</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">3/15/19</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">99</span><span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">(currently director of special projects at the New York City-based War & Peace Foundation</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">“T H E - N I G H T M A R E - S C E N A R I O,” http://www.co-intelligence.org/y2k_nukes1.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">**Most worrisome, because of their vast potential for destruction, … deadly radioactivity to return the planet to the insects**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">.</span>


**Scenario 3: pandemics**

**We are overdue for a pandemic**
**Shangraw 10** (Eric, “Preparing for an Influenza Pandemic”, July 15th, [[http://www.centralillinoisnewscenter.com/news/local/32012984.html]], MBIBAS)
__"We are overdue for a pandemic epidemic. …. Arbise with IL Dept of Health Emergency Coord__.

**A solar storm would disrupt emergency services**
**Hough 10** (Andrew, The Telegraph, “Nasa warns solar flares from ‘huge space storm’ will cause devastation”, June 14th, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/7819201/Nasa-warns-solar-flares-from-huge-space-storm-will-cause-devastation.html]], MBIBAS)
__National power grids could overheat__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">and air travel severely disrupted </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> “Large areas will be without electricity power and to repair that damage will be hard as that takes time.” </span>



**That causes epidemic outbreaks**
<span class="Heading2Char1">Mason 8</span>[Vanessa Mason, Healthcare specialist, Universal Health Care Series: The National Security Argument, http://vanessamason.wordpress.com/2008/08/16/universal-health-care-series-the-national-security-argument/]
<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">The flu epidemic of 1918 killed one-fifth of the world’s ….universal health care is an important step in the right direction.</span>__</span>


**Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char1">Fox 97</span> [Col. William, M.D., Commander of Bayne-Jones Army Hospital, Command Surgeon of the Joint Readiness Training Center, medical degree from the Uniformed Services University of the Health Services, Winter 1997-98, Parameters, Vol. XXVII, No. 4, “Phantom Warriors: Disease as a Threat to US National Security,” http://carlisle-www.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/97winter/fox.htm)

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">HIV is a pandemic killer without a cure</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">,</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">….as seriously as the</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> concern for </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">deliberate use of w</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">eapons of </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">m</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">ass </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 19px;">d</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">estruction.</span>


**We control impact uniqueness - Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths**
**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)

__Despite remarkable breakthroughs in medical research …exacerbate social and political instability in key countries and regions in which the U.S. has significant interests__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.”3 </span>



Plan

**The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory to warn of solar storms from the L1 libration point.**



Observation Two: Solvency

**Your Disads are non-starters – funding and technology for the plan is done**
**Clark 9** (Spaceflight Now, “Mothballed satellite sits in warehouse, waits for new life”, March 2nd, http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n0903/01dscovr/, MBIBAS)

__The__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> long-grounded </span>__Deep Space Climate Observatory may be revived__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> …</span> **__The Earth science instruments are already bolted on the satellite__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">. If they don't start working and spending money to remove things, that would be wonderful." </span>


**The plan is key to early detection of major solar storms coming in 2013- failure to act now destroys the power grid, air travel, and satellite operations**
**Spaceflight Now 11**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (Feb 21</span> “<span style="font-size: 13px;">NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission” [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]])</span>

**__The White House is requesting $47 million in fiscal …. the sun reaches solar maximum, the peak of activity in its up-and-down cycle. Forecasters predict the next solar maximum in 2013.__**


**Early detection solves – satellites and transformers would be safely shut off**
**Space.com 10** (Space.Com, late breaking headlines about outer space, space flight, science and astronomy news. “More Active Sun Means Nasty Solar Storms Ahead”, June 9th, [[http://www.space.com/8563-active-sun-means-nasty-solar-storms.html]], MBIBAS)
__People of the 21st century rely on high-tech systems ….**electronics from damaging electrical surges**__<span style="font-size: 8px;">. "Space weather forecasting is still in its infancy, but we’re making rapid progress," said Thomas Bogdan, director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)’s Space Weather Prediction Center in Boulder, Colo. </span>


**ACE is our best satellite – but it will fail**
**Tracton 11** (Steve, Washington Post, “Understanding space weather forecasts and the risk of solar storms”, June 21st, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/post/space-weather-basic-information-for-understanding-solar-strike-risk/2011/06/21/AGoz4beH_blog.html]], MBIBAS)

__ACE is not only an integral component of the short term warnings, …. which Tom Bogdan, Director of SWPC, admits keeps him awake at night.__


**And a solar storm will cause the fragile ACE satellite to malfunction**
**CARV 11** (Concept Analysis Research Vault, develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, “Satellite Outages Now Critical Data Problem”, May 19th, [[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The Advanced Composition Explorer ( </span>__ACE__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> ) spacecraft satellite probe onboard sensing camera detectors, ….</span>**__ACE has exceeded its NASA calculated life expectance.__**


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Probability is 100% - it’s a question of inevitability </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Parsons 2011</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Dan, November, National Defense Magazine, “Solar Storms Could Plunge the Nation into Darkness” [[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/November/Pages/SolarStormsCouldPlungeNationintoDarkness.aspx]], PZ)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">Hurricanes, terrorist attacks and earthquakes can cause devastation ….</span><span class="Underline"> We can also power down our grids safely</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">,” she said.</span>


**ACE and SOHO will fail – plan resolves that**
**Butt 10** (Yousaf, staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University. “The EMP Threat: fact, fiction, and response”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]], MBIBAS)
__Continued monitoring of the space environment is essential__<span style="font-size: 8px;">, </span>__but ….____The urgency of this directive cannot be overstressed.__
===1AC Operational Data Adv - Octos Meadows=== 
**Warming is inevitable**
**NPR 9** (Citing Susan Solomon, “Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says”, January 26th, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903]], MBIBAS)
*Susan Solomon is: member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC

**__Climate change is essentially irreversible, …. deal with climate change__<span style="font-size: 9px;">. The global thermostat can't be turned down quickly once it's been turned up, so scientists say we need to proceed with more caution right now. </span>**

Lack of effective data is creating a gap in military response capabilities - That decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change
Rogers and Gulledge 10 **(Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])

__Climate change will__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> likely </span>__exacerbate trends such as food insecurity, ….they may find themselves less well prepared to meet future challenges.__**


And effective data is a PRE-REQUISITE to action
Rogers and Gulledge 10 **(Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]], MBIBAS)
__Given the proliferation of new tools__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> … the quality and specificity of data about the forecasted impact of climate change on particular world regions, and supporting analysis of the implications, is relatively limited. </span>**


Warming disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir – causes Indo Pak war
Parvaiz 2010 **– (Sringar, January 18th, IPS, “Reduced Himalyan…” [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=50014]])
<span style="font-size: 11px;">SRINAGAR, Jan 18, 2010 (IPS) - </span>__The declining snow cover … with the depletion of water reserves up in the mountains__<span style="font-size: 11px;">," said Prof Sultan. </span>**

US military is key to solve, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powersBaker 2010 **(Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010, [[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]])

__Perhaps nowhere is this more concerning … support to meeting the challenges posed by climate change.__**


Plan Solves

a.) Efficiency and cost sharing
Valero 6 **(Francisco, Distinguished Research Scientist and Director of Atmospheric Research Laboratory at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Letter to Dr. Michael Griffin who is the Administrator of NASA, March 29th, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/2318466/Scientis-Letters-Only]], MBIBAS)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Dear Dr. Griffin: The Deep Space Climate Observatory (</span>__DSCOVR__<span style="font-size: 9px;">)</span> __is__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> … I am ready and eager to participate, if you find it useful, in any meetings/workshops that may be organized to discuss possible Earth sciences missions. Looking forward to favorable decision, please accept my sincere regards, Francisco P.J. Valero.</span>**


b.) DSCOVR would serve to calibrate other satellites – key to an earth monitoring system
Donahue 11** (Bill, Popular Science, “Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory”, April 6th, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]], MBIBAS)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Since 1999, </span>__NASA and NOAA have been calling for an …__<span style="font-size: 9px;">: STEREO, in which a pair of satellites orbit the sun and beam back continuous footage of our resident star. But DSCOVR remained in storage. </span>

===1AC Integrated Observation System Adv - Round 5 Meadows=== 
**Advantage 2 is Integration**

**Integration of satellite data currently fails**
**NOAA 5** (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, “FINALIZING PLANS FOR A GLOBAL EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEM OF SYSTEMS”, February 1st, [[http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag159.htm]], MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 9px;">But </span>__while there are thousands of moored and ….on which sound policy must be built.__

**DSCOVR would serve to calibrate other satellites – key to an integrated Global Observation system**
**Donahue 11** (Bill, Popular Science, “Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory”, April 6th, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]], MBIBAS)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Since 1999, </span>__NASA and NOAA have been calling for an …__<span style="font-size: 9px;">pulling off a familiar-sounding mission: STEREO, in which a pair of satellites orbit the sun and beam back continuous footage of our resident star. But DSCOVR remained in storage. </span>

**That solves disease, forest fires, air pollution, yield production**
**NOAA 5** (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, “FINALIZING PLANS FOR A GLOBAL EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEM OF SYSTEMS”, February 1st, [[http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag159.htm]], MBIBAS)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Global Earth Observation System of Systems </span>__Building an integrated__<span style="font-size: 9px;">, ….</span> __water and air quality and improving airline safety__<span style="font-size: 9px;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Disease causes Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Steinbruner, 1998</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;"> (John, Director of the Center for International and Security Studies @ Maryland, Winter Foreign</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Policy)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">It is a considerable comfort and undoubtedly … but a fundamental security problem for the species as a whole.</span>__

**We control impact uniqueness - Disease increasing now – causes systemic deaths**
**Hamburg et al 8** (Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, MD—AND—Jeffrey Levi, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Health Policy at George Washington U—AND—Kimberly Elliot, MA—AND—Lynora Williams, MA. Peer-Reviewed by: Edward A. Belongia, MD, director of the Epidemiology Research Center at Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation—AND—Luciana L. Borio, MD, senior associate at the biosecurity center at Pittsburgh U—AND—Robert J. Guidos, JD, Director, Public Policy & Government Relations at the Infectious Diseases Society of America—AND—James Hughes, MD, Professor of Medicine and Public Health at Emory, Former Director of the National Centers of Infectious Diseases; U.S.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention—AND—Kathleen F. Gensheimer, MD, MPH, Maine HHS epidemiologist—AND—James Lawler, MD, MPH, FACP, CDR MC U.S. Navy; Chief Medical Officer—AND—Ruth Lynfield, MD, Minnesota health dept epidemiologist—AND—Michael Mair, MPH, Associate at the Pittsburgh U center for Biosecurity (Margaret A., October 2008, Germs Go Global: WHY EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES ARE A THREAT TO AMERICA, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf, MBIBAS)
__Despite remarkable breakthroughs in medical …political instability in key countries and regions in which the U.S. has significant interests__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.”3 </span>
<span class="Underline">**Forest fires destroy the ozone**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Andreas </span><span class="Underline">**Stohl 2007**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> “Polarcat: Introduction”</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">In addition, satellite imagery shows that </span><span class="Underline">**the Arctic can**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> also </span><span class="Underline">**…**</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">impact needs quantification based on observations and further model studies.</span>


**Ozone depletion causes extinction**
**Greenpeace 95**<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” <span style="font-size: 15px;">[[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario … </span>**__the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth__**<span style="font-size: 13px;">.</span>

=Negative= 
==[[#Negative-Topicality]]‍Topicality== 
===[[#Negative-Topicality-1NC Human Presence]]‍1NC Human Presence=== 
**a) Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight //Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”// <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]</span>)
Exploration as a Compelling Rationale
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Many believe that … several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**b) development also has to be human presence**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, </span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span>
__Eric Westling is … **projects in space**__
====2NC Overview==== 

**Prefer our interpretation:**

**a) their interpretation muddles debate –**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Faith 8/31/9</span>__**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">“ Giving NASA a clear mission “</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">G. Ryan Faith is an adjunct fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Giving NASA a clear mission__<span style="font-size: 10px;">…and lay the groundwork for future missions. </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">b)And, aff T cards distort the language and slay precision</span>
**__Wright 6/28/6__**
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/]]</span>
Overseeing the revival of Teachers in Space as a non-profit program of the Space Frontier Foundation. Principal Investigator on NASA K-12 … __is just an attempt to co-opt the language.__


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">c)international concensus is on our side</span>
**__Ehrenfreund and Peter 9__**
Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 244-256, “ Toward a paradigm shift in managing future global space exploration endeavors”
Ehrenfreund: Pascale Ehrenfreund, (Ph.D. Thesis University of Vienna/ University Paris VII) Research Professor of Space Policy and International Affairs. Molecular Biology, Space Science and related policy making, technology management.
Nicolas Peter: Research Fellow, European Space Policy Institute, M.A. in International Science and Technology Policy - Elliott School of International Affairs -The George Washington University, Washington D.C., USA
__The rising number of new countries …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> The global exploration strategy: the framework for coordination http://esamultimedia.esa.int/docs/GES_Framework_final.pdf (2007) [GES 2007].[10]. </span>

====<span style="font-size: 10px;">2NC Limits Impact</span>==== 




**impossible research burden means aff always wins – limits outweigh and access every theory argument**

**Rowland 84** – (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, __American Forensics in Perspective__. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The first major problem identified by the work group …. resulting from the use of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs. </span>



===[[#Negative-Topicality-1NC Space Particles]]‍1NC Space Particles=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">Space is the void between celestial bodies </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Abby **__Cessna__**, July 5 20**__09__**, UniverseToday.com, “Interplanetary Space”, [[http://www.universetoday.com/34074/interplanetary-space/]]</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">The region of </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/25406/space/|space]]</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"> within our </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/15908/3d-solar-system/|Solar System]]</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif;"> is called interplanetary space, also known as interplanetary medium. Most ….</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;"> hit interstellar space. </span>


**The phrase “OF SPACE” in the resolution means the activity must occur IN space – not simply develop for USE in space.**
**BOCKSTIEGEL 95** Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency
<span style="font-size: 11px;">(Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The official title …</span> __as ‘use’ of space.__

**AND – of creates precision – the OBJECT of the development/exploration must be SPACE.**
**COLLINS 09**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Collins World English Dictionary, dictionary.com]</span>
__of__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 11px;">ɒ</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">v, ( //unstressed// ) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">ə</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">v) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">-- //prep//</span>
__1. used with a …in the gerund__<span style="font-size: 11px;">:</span> //<span style="font-size: 11px;">the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">breathing</span> __o__////<span style="font-size: 11px;">f</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">a</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">fine</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">swimmer(subject)</span>// <span style="font-size: 11px;">;</span> //<span style="font-size: 11px;">the</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">breathing</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">of</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">clean</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">air</span>// //<span style="font-size: 11px;">(object)</span>//
===1NC Framework=== 
**Our framework**: the aff has to defend that the USFG implement a topical policy advocacy. All advantages should be causal results of the plan, not from in round discussion.

**First is topicality –**

**a) Resolved reflects a legislative forum**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Army Officer School, 04</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The colon introduces</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the following: a. A list, ….</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">Resolved: (colon) That this council petition the mayor</span>__.__


**__b) And__, “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ericson, 03</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging Future Action … that you propose. </span>


**Second is our standards -**

<span class="Underline">**A) Fairness—there are an infinite number of frameworks that the Aff can’t predict which rigs the game for the negative**</span>
**MEARSHEIMER 1995**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Nevertheless, critical theorists readily acknowledge that realism …. switch has been made, states will cooperate with each other and world politics will be more peaceful.</span>

<span class="Underline">**B) Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FEAVER 2001**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">At the same time, virtually </span>all good theory has implications for policy<span class="Underline">. ….</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> the best work in the proliferation field already does so.</span>


<span class="Underline">**C) space education is good**</span>
<span class="Underline">Bill **Stevens**, 20**11**, “Space Exploration” </span>[[http://www.nfhs.org/WorkArea/linkit.aspx?LinkIdentifier=id&ItemID|www.nfhs.org/WorkArea/linkit.aspx?LinkIdentifier=id&ItemID]]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">The challenges of the Cold War and President John F. Kenney’s declaration ….</span> __could do the same for economic goals__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>
====2NC Limits impacts==== 
**This presumptively outweighs –**

**A. Key to productive discourse**
**Shively ‘2K** (Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “//Partisan Politics and Political Theory”//, p. 181-2)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">This means, first, that they must recognize the role …</span>__basic agreement__ <span style="font-size: 10px;">or harmony.</span>

**B. Prevents power politics that turns the case**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shively ‘2K</span> (Ruth Lesl, Professor of Politics at Texas A&M, “Partisan Politics and Political Theory”, p. 181-2)
Nor is this recognition of rational … own thoughts and choose.
====2NC Education Impacts==== 

<span class="Underline">**We’ll also read an impact to policy education- prevents extinction**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beres ’03</span> (Louis Rene-, June 5, Journal and Courrier, Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Our </span><span class="underline0">response, </span><span style="font-size: 10px;">even </span><span class="underline0">after Operation Iraqi Freedom, …</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">, an unheralded and sinister arrival in which only a shadowy legion of gravediggers would wield the forceps. </span>



**our framework is a pre-requisite for change –**

**Traditional debate encourages a panoramic argument vision, which translates to public debate**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Mitchell and Suzuki </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2004</span>** (Gordon R., and Takeshi, U Pitt Debate Guru and Tsuda College, "Beyond the Daily Me", Aug. 2-5, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://wvvwf.pitt.edu/~gordormVJPubs/MitchellSuzuki3.rtf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Panoramic argument vision. </span>**__The competitive ..__**<span style="font-size: 10px;">and vertically (in layers of depth on a single topic).</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC AT: FW Bad</span>==== 
**Norms enable argumentative debate interactions that can challenge validity claims**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Risse,</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;"> 2000</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">(Thomas, International Organization, Vol. 54, Winter, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Habermas posits that our communicative practices …</span><span class="underline0">(</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">n32) I discuss these conditions further in the following sections</span>



==[[#Negative-Disadvantages]]‍Disadvantages== 
===[[#Negative-Disadvantages-1NC Spending]]‍1NC Spending=== 
**New agreement guarantees massive cuts and fiscal responsibility**
**Kyl 8-9** – Senator, serves on the Senate Finance and Judiciary Comitee (John, 2011, Ledger DC journal – peer reviewed, “The long road ahead to fiscal responsibility” [[http://www.nationalledger.com/politics-crime/the-long-road-ahead-to-fiscal-666313.shtml]])
**__Congress recently reached …__**__to fiscal responsibility__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>

**Space programs cause huge spending**
Hsu 9 (Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]])
<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 17px;">There are limited </span>____<span style="font-size: 17px;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> be mutually supported.</span>

**Failure to maintain fiscal discipline collapses investor confidence and causes economic collapse**
**Washington Post, 1-7**, 11, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/07/AR2011010701826.html]]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Federal Reserve Chairman …</span> **__increasing business confidence.__**


**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
**Harris and Burrows 9**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">Of course, the ..more </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__

====__2NC Overview__==== 
**The economy is on the brink now**
**Bussiness Report 8-26** (The Chronicle with Bloomberg, “US Economy: Recovery Sputters, Consumer Confidence Sinks” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/g/a/2011/08/26/bloomberg1376-LQJC203T6SRC01-0L33AMUKCOH4R4TUS87KAQN8QA.DTL]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">"</span>__The consumer is clearly unnerved__<span style="font-size: 10px;">," </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> a 1.1 percent increase in GDP. Estimates ranged from 0.3 percent to 1.6 percent.</span>

**__magnitude__ - every impact we access more through the economy**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Silk 93</span>** (Leonard, Professor of Economics – Pace University, “Dangers of Slow Growth”, Foreign Affairs, 72(1), Winter, p. 173-174)
**__In the absence of__** <span style="font-size: 10px;">such shifts of </span>**__human and capital … and open economies and societies__**<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>

====<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Uniqueness </span>==== 
**The US is cutting spending now**
**Murray 8-27** – a director who handles financial administration at the Wall Street Journal (Sarah, 2011, “Tug of War over best time for belt tightening” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904009304576532342752417676.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>, PZ)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Facing ballooning debt</span>, __the U.S. is__ __… or 2.7%, lower than its pre-recession peak__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>


**New proposal issues massive spending cuts – 1.2 trillion**
**Weisgerber 8-29** – defense reporter at the Hill (Marcus, 2011, “At DoD A Search for More Spending Cuts” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=7508666&c=FEA&s=CVS]]</span>, PZ)
__The U.S. military services have revised their 2013 budget … **government spending cuts** over the same period.__


**Economy is fragile but recovering**
**McElfresh 9-1** – economic adviser for The Daily Adviser (Amanda, 2011 “banking leader discusses Us economy” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theadvertiser.com/article/20110901/BUSINESS/109010347]]</span>)
__The nation's **economic recovery will …**__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> the need for longer-term structural adjustments."</span>


**The economy is recovering despite weak data**
**Bernake 9-1** – Federal Reserve Chairman (Ben S., 2011, “The Near and Long Term Prospects for the US economy” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://freepressonline.com/main.asp?SectionID=52&SubSectionID=78&ArticleID=14794]]</span>)
__There have been some positive developments …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> that other, more persistent factors also have been at work.</span>


**No risk of collapse now - only the plan triggers**
**Seeking Alpha 9-4** – leading economic analytical contributors (2011, “Is the world headed for a double dip” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/291540-is-the-world-economy-headed-for-a-double-dip]]</span>)
__Are we headed for another global recession? …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> of global GDP, they occurred along with a very sharp growth slowdown in developing countries.</span>

====2NC Links==== 
**2. NASA is already broke – new funding would increase the deficit**
**Rhian 11** (Jason, Universe Today Staff Writer, NASA Says it Cannot Produce Heavy-Lift Rocket on Time, Budget, 1-17, http://www.universetoday.com/82535/nasa-says-it-cannot-produce-heavy-lift-rocket-on-time-budget/)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">NASA has sent Congress a report stating ….</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> and NASA could find itself receiving far less than promised</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>


**3. The link is huge – each mission costs billions**
**Kaku 9** (Michio, professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York, “The Cost of Space Exploration,” 7-16, http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/16/apollo-moon-landing-anniversary-opinions-contributors-cost-money.html)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">But after 1969, the Soviets dropped out of the … is a completely circular and illogical argument. </span>


**4. Perception triggers the link**
Erik **Sofge**, journalist, January 200**8**, Space-Based Solar Power Beams Become Next Energy Frontier, Popular Mechanics, http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/air_space/4230315.html
<span style="font-size: 10px;">A Pentagon report released in October could </span>__… everything in space has to cost trillions.”__

**5. It snowballs – deficit spending gets sugar-coated with funding for other programs**
Fox News 5-24 (Chad Pergram, "Natural Disasters Could Challenge Campaign Spending Promises", http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2011/05/25/natural-disasters-could-challenge-campaign-spending-promises)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">It often starts like this.</span>__There's a series of natural disasters…__<span style="font-size: 10px;">a freshman who represents Cajun country and the mouth of the Mississippi River. Some of the most serious flooding has washed over parts of Landry's southern Louisiana district. Landry knows what's essential to recover from the floods. </span>
===[[#Negative-Disadvantages-1NC Weaponization]]‍<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC Weaponization </span>=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**

**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])



<span style="font-size: 8px;">As is well … in these details. </span>



**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**

**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])



**//Cooperation for contested…//**responsible space-faring nations.



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]] , FS)</span>



<span style="font-size: 11px;">International cooperation is … be more likely. </span>



**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>



__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even…</span>__<span style="font-size: 7px;"> unacceptable to all.</span>


====2NC Overview==== 
**time frame - Space weapons will create nuclear preemption incentives before deployment can be completed**
**Englehart, 8** – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">D. An Effective U.S. Space Weapons Deployment </span>
__The actual deployment of satellite-based weapons__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> …in the coming decades </span>__is sure to inflame Russia__<span style="font-size: 10px;">and drive it further away from the United States.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000;">Plan kills heg</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Bellflower 10, instructor at the Advanced Space Operations School </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10px;">[Air Force Judge Advocate General School. The Air Force Law Review. The influence of law on command of space name: major john w. Bellflower Lexis Accessed June 21, 2011]</span>
__<span style="color: #000000;">Whether or not the United States is the "…</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10px;"> and practically </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">eliminate the threat of spac</span>__
__<span style="color: #000000;">e debris</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10px;"> from kinetic weapons entirely.</span>
**.**
**Hegemony can’t solve the DA – it only risks conflict in space**
**Khan 2009**- is a Senator belonging to Pakistan People's (Adnan, October, “The Struggle for Space: the Final Frontier” [[http://www.khilafah.com/index.php/the-khilafah/foreign-policy/7914-the-struggle-for-space-the-final-frontier]])
__If things are left to the current …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> does try to gain a monopoly public opinion can be used to put an end to the belligerence.</span>
====<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Uniqueness</span>==== 
**no space weaponization now**
**Denmark 2010 -** Fellow with the Center for a New American Security<span style="font-size: 10px;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>
__Space’s militarization__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> — its use as a medium to …f space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests. 38</span>


**The US is pursuing cooperation in space now**
**Rose, 11 –**Deputy Assistant S2ecretary of the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Frank, “STRENGTHENING STABILITY IN SPACE,” REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE DATA, 4/4, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Why is SSA important to space security? A long-standing principle …</span> __the risk of mishaps, misperceptions, and mistrust__<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>
====**2NC AT: China**==== 
**China’s actions will be solely reactionary – this assumes worst case scenarios**
**Hagt 2007** – the director of the China Program at the World Security Institute in Washington, DC, and also the editor of China Security (Eric, “China’s ASAT Test Strategic Response” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=31974
__Even if we are facing the worst case scenario … But flexibility and sacrifice will be essential__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>
====**2NC Links**==== 
=====**BMD**===== 

**BMD leads to space weaponization**
Dave **Webb**, physics teacher university of york, September **2K**, “The Nuclearization and Militarization of Space: a brief history” [[http://www.space4peace.org/articles/brief.htm]], PZ
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Now, more than 30 years after SDI, </span>__Washington … It will generate a new arms race in space__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>

===1NC GEO DA=== 


**Communication satellites will be placed in GEO**
**UCS 2005 -** Union of Concerned Scientists– group of scientists (“The Physics of Space Security” http://www.amacad.org/publications/Section_5.pdf)
__The choice of a particular orbit for a satellite ….__<span style="font-size: 10px;">of an unknown satellite by observing what orbit it follows.</span>

**scarcity of geosynchronous orbital slots ensures competition**
**__POST__**, 200**__6__**, Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, postnote, December, Number 273, “Military uses of space,” [[http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Satellites orbit the earth at anything from a few hundreds …</span> __**LEO, there is less competition for orbital slots than in GEO**__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>

**this ensures multiple scenarios for conflict**
Frank G. **__Klotz__**, Jan 19**__99__**, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4
**__The scramble for geosynchronous slots …__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> infrastructure-is a case in point.</span>

**conflict in space risks extinction**
Gordon M. **__Mitchell__**, July 200**__1__**, Assoc. Prof of Communications, University of Pittsburgh, Kevin Ayotte & David Cram Helwich, “Missile Defense: Transatlantic Diplomacy at a Cross-Roads”, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense No. 6
__It is chilling to contemplate the possible … **the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen**__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>
==[[#Negative-Politics]]‍Politics== 
===[[#Negative-Politics-1NC Elections DA (Wake)]]‍1NC Elections DA (Wake)=== 
<span class="Underline">**GOP will win because of dissatisfaction with Obama, but popular policies can reverse the trend.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jones 7/14**</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Jeffery M, ‘“Republican Candidate’ Extends Lead vs. Obama to 47% to 39%Margin marks first statistically significant lead among registered voters”, [[http://www.gallup.com/poll/148487/Republican-Candidate-Extends-Lead-Obama.aspx]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">PRINCETON, NJ -- </span>Registered voters by <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> were seeking re-election.</span>

**New space policies by Obama are popular – the plan recaptures critical votes.**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Carrie Rudoff </span>**Brown, 4/29**<span style="font-size: 11px;">/2011, “Barack Obama’s shuttle diplomacy”, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53910.html]]</span>
__Obama sparked a …of American stature.”__



**Obama reverses global development, causing poverty and economic collapse**
James **Roberts**, Research Fellow for Economic Freedom and Growth in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation, **4/8/2011**. [[http://heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/04/Obamas-Radical-Climate-Change-Agenda-Driving-US-Foreign-Aid-Policy]]
__The President’s determination …years of successes.__



**Poverty makes all impacts inevitable**
Susan **Rice**, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former assistant secretary of state for African affairs, **2006**. “The Threat of Global Poverty,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2006/spring_globaleconomics_rice/20060401.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">When </span>__Americans__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> see … combat transnational threats.</span>
====2NC Overview==== 
**Poverty outweighs war, also it’s the root cause**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gilligan</span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School 96</span>**
[James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes”, p. 191-196]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">During the past decade, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">the discrepancies … **on a socially and epidemiologically significant scale**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (from homicide and suicide to war and genocide)</span></span>
====<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Links</span>==== 
**Specifically, revitalizing NASA is key for Obama to win Florida – huge backlash in the squo.**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Achenbach ‘10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> (Joel Achenbach Washington Post Staff Writer March 10, 2010 “Obama's plans for NASA changes met with harsh criticism” Washington Post http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/03/09/AR2010030902594.html?hpid=moreheadlines)</span>

__Harrison Schmitt's credentials as a space … not carry the I-4 corridor, they don't win Florida," Nelson said.__

<span class="Underline">**2.** **<span style="text-decoration: none;">Americans want the US to fund NASA and stay a global leader in space – emotionally charged support outweighs everything else.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">RSC 7/7-</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;"> public affairs communications firm, building public and opinion leader support for issues of local, state and regional importance (Ron Sachs Communications, “Poll: Americans Want Space Program to Continue” Jun 7, 2011, http://www.wctv.tv/APNews/headlines/Poll_Americans_Want_Space_Program_to_Continue_123358308.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;">In a dramatic new Sachs/Mason-Dixon poll, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">an overwhelming …</span><span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;"> 57% 54% 59% 57% SHOULD NOT 26% 31% 24% 22% NOT SURE 17% 15% 17% 21% </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Americans like space – economic and leadership concerns</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Carreau 11</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;"> – (Mark, Jul 7, Poll: Majority Views U.S. Space Leadership As Essential, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/07/07/11.xml&headline=Poll:%20Majority%20Views%20U.S.%20Space%20Leadership%20As%20Essential)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;">HOUSTON — </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">A majority of Americans – …</span><span style="font-size: 10px; text-decoration: none;"> the program’s first flight in 1981.</span>
====2NC Israel-Iran War Impact==== 
**Obama win destroys hard power and leads to Iran-Israel war**
**Rachman 9**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> – //Financial Times// chief foreign affairs commentator (6/1/09, Gieldon, Financial Times, </span>**“**<span style="font-size: 10px;">Obama and the limits of soft power,” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e608b556-4ee0-11de-8c10-00144feabdc0.html, NM)</span>

__Barack Obama is a soft power president.__ __…coming months it will become increasingly obvious that **soft power also has its limits.**__

**Extinction.**
**Hirsch 5 –** Professor of Physics at UC San Diego <span style="font-size: 10px;">[Jorge Hirsch, CAN A NUCLEAR STRIKE ON IRAN BE AVERTED, NOVEMBER 21, 2005, HTTP://WWW.ANTIWAR.COM/ORIG/HIRSCH.PHP?ARTICLEID=8089] </span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">The Bush administration has put together all the elements …</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18px;">enough to erase Earth's population many times over</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 18px;">.</span>__</span>




===1NC SKFTA DA=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">SKFTA will pass but PC is key </span>**
<span class="s2">**Palmer 9/2** </span>Doug, Reuters Reporter, " Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall," 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902
<span style="font-size: 11px;">After a slow start that has frustrated U.S. business groups, …to gaining enough Democratic votes in the Senate to approve the trade pacts</span>


**Plan kills political capital.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Handberg 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7px;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving another difficult …</span> becomes your mantra.

**SKFTA solves the economy and reinvigorates the alliance**
**Campbell 11-** Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
(Kurt, March 31, “Asian Overview: Protecting American Interests in China and Asia,” Testimony Before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific Washington, DC, http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2011/03/159450.htm)
__As we seek to achieve the President’s goal …. prosperity and security in the Asia____Pacific__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> and fortify our leadership role and influence in the region. </span>


**Relations solve a laundry list of impacts**
**Sharp 2010**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) Calum</span>

<span style="font-size: 9px;">A </span>__key part of U.S. security policy in Asia …. in the broader region of Northeast Asia - a region of key national interest to the U.S.__
===__1NC China Bashing DA - Meadows__=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Boehner is the only thing blocking the currency bill</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">W</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">all Street Journal 10/6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;"> http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20111006-713089.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">Rank-and-file House </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Republicans</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">are breaking ranks with</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;"> leadership is the sole barrier between China and a new U.S. currency policy.</span>__**
**Plan kills political capital.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Handberg 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 7px;"> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 7px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but ….has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>

**Boehner gets the blame, saps capital**
**__Garrett ‘11__** (Major Garrett, “A Kinder, Gentler Speaker?” The Atlantic, 6-5-2011, http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/06/a-kinder-gentler-speaker/239935/)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">On the eve of a potential government shutdown in April, a deal was finally ….</span> **__the issues and the negotiations will only get tougher__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">. </span>
**Triggers trade wars – collapsing the global economy, free trade and escalating to war with China**
**__Droke ‘10__** (Clif Droke, editor of Momentum Strategies Report, Green Faucet, “America and the Next Major War,” 3-29-2010, http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">In the current phase of relative peace and stability we now enjoy, </span>**__many are …. the nation that is hurt will surely retaliate and the entire world will suffer__**<span style="font-size: 11px;">," writes Barker.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Straits Times -2K</span> (Straits Times, June, 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan] (PDNSS2115)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO -</span>THE high-intensity scenario postulates a <span class="underline">cross-strait war …. for China puts sovereignty above everything else</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>

===2NC AT: Winners Win=== 
**2. Winners lose**

**A) Political capital is finite**
**//__<span style="font-size: 13px;">Edwards & Wood, 99</span>__//**//<span style="font-size: 13px;"> (George C. Edwards and B. Dan Wood – Professors of Political Science at Texas A&M, American Political Science Review, “Who Influences Whom? The President, Congress, and the Media,” June, vol. 93, no.2, JStor, JMP)</span>//

<span style="font-size: 9px;">Examinations of presidential influence on the media's … in the executive branch, but also of people in Congress and outside the government."</span>

**B)** **We’ll read a card specific to Obama- he’ll lose**
**//__Ryan__//**//, Selwyn Trinidad Express, 1-18-**__09__**, “Obama and Political Capital// [[http://www.trinidadexpress.com/index.pl/print?id=161426968]]
<span style="font-size: 9px;">Like many, I expect much from Obama, who for the time being… means you do what I the leader say you do. </span>


**C) Their cards use the example of the stimulus and healthcare- both of these decreased obama’s finite political capitol**

//<span style="font-size: 13px;">Tom **__Schaller__** 8/18/20**__09__** “Is Obama Spending his Political Capital, Wasting It ... or Wuz He Robbed?” (Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at University of Maryland) < http://www.fivethirtyeight.com/2009/08/is-obama-spending-his-political-capital.html)</span>//

**//__<span style="font-size: 13px;">Obama came to Washington to spend … reforming our messy, complicated health care system. Accordingly, he's paying the price for even trying.</span>__//**


**D) Even if winners win- capital reserve replenishes too slowly to be relevant**
//<span style="font-size: 13px;">Tom **__Schaller__** 8/18/20**__09__** “Is Obama Spending his Political Capital, Wasting It ... or Wuz He Robbed?” (Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at University of Maryland) < http://www.fivethirtyeight.com/2009/08/is-obama-spending-his-political-capital.html)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13px;">Obama is investing now with an eye toward medium…__, **after taking an initial hit, his capital reserves will slowly rise** back to pre-Summer '09 levels.__</span>//
===2NC AT: Compartmentalization=== 
**Political capital is key to the agenda – especially in election season**
**Terigopula 11** (Rajiv. Writer for the Harvard Political Review. “President Obama’s Political Capital,” [[http://hpronline.org/hprgument/president-obamas-political-capital/]] , 7-6)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Much [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20027301-503544.html|hullabaloo]] has been made in …</span> process over the next two years<span style="font-size: 10px;">, and may very well determine the outcome of the 2012 presidential race</span>


**and capital is key to the agenda**
**Light 99**<span style="font-size: 6px;"> – Senior Fellow at the Center for Public Service (Paul, the President’s Agenda, p. 34)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6px;">In chapter 2, I will consider just how capital affects the basic parameters …</span> __force behind the domestic agenda.__

===**2NC Links**=== 
====**Funding/Budget**==== 
**Budget priorities overwhelm program popularity**
**Matthews, Lane, and Evans 2011–** Matthews is Ph.D., is a fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute, Lane has a Ph.D and is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University and he is a Senior Fellow of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, where he is engaged in matters of science and technology policy, Evans is a Rice University graduate in physics (Kristin R.W., Neal, and Kenneth M., July 21st, “US Scientific Research and Development 202” [[http://www.scienceprogress.org/2011/07/u-s-scientific-research-and-development-202/]], PZ)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">With a total federal R&D budget of an estimated $144.4 billion … have gone through the peer-review process.[xv]</span>


**Space funding not politically salient—funding requires more capital**
Harrison **Schmitt**, Fusion Technology Institute, 20**06**, Return to the Moon: exploration, enterprise, and energy in the human settlement of space, p. 189
__The shift from national to local political interest … Kennedy should reappear and be sustained.__

**Funding space programs takes lots of political capital – especially when the economy heightens budget concerns**
Roger **Handbert &** Zhen **Li,** Professor s of Political Science, University of Central Florida & U. California @ Davis, 200**__7__**, Chinese Space Policy: a study in domestic and international politics, p. 51
<span style="font-size: 10px;">In principle, </span>__a more powerful launch system, …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> commit adequate resources to achieve success. </span>
====<span style="text-decoration: none;">DSCOVR</span>==== 
**Plan is unpopular – empirics**
**Clark 11** (Spaceflight Now, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”, February 21st, [[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]], MBIBAS)

__The $47.3 million budgeted for …terminated the project in 2005__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> after spending $97 million. </span>

**Massive backlash – unusual origin and mission**
**Leary 99** (Warren, NY Times and member of Open NASA, “Politics Keeps a Satellite Earthbound”, June 1st, [[http://www.nytimes.com/1999/06/01/science/politics-keeps-a-satellite-earthbound.html]], MBIBAS)

__As spacecraft go, it is small, … whose idea it was in the first place__<span style="font-size: 9px;">. </span>

**Republican opposition**
**Leary 99** (Warren, NY Times and member of Open NASA, “Politics Keeps a Satellite Earthbound”, June 1st, [[http://www.nytimes.com/1999/06/01/science/politics-keeps-a-satellite-earthbound.html]], MBIBAS)

<span style="font-size: 9px;">But </span>__as interest in Triana grew, so did … without Triana financing__<span style="font-size: 9px;">. </span>




==[[#Negative-Counterplans]]‍Counterplans== 
===[[#Negative-Counterplans-1NC Prizes]]‍1NC Prizes=== 
**Solves the case**
**Kalil, 2006** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[Thomas, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress & Former Deputy Assistant to President Clinton for Technology and Economic Policy), “</span><span style="color: #282425; font-size: 11px;">Prizes for Technological Innovation,” The Hamilton Project, The Brookings Institution, Discussion Paper 2006-08, December]</span>

<span style="color: #282425; font-size: 11px;">Among all federal …</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> a mainstream tool. </span>
====<span style="font-size: 11px;">2NC SPS Solvency</span>==== 

**solves and its more efficient**

Al **__Globus__**__, ’20**09**__, chairman of the Space Settlement Committee of the National Space Society, September 2009, (Space Solar Power Via Prizes, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://space.alglobus.net/papers/sspContest.html]]</span>, PZ)

__Let us suppose that America decides that …**very safe supply of electrical power that will last for billions of years**__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>

====2NC AT: Private Sector Won't Do It==== 

**1. Companies will invest even if the prize is cheap – sentiment of winning outweighs cost barriers**

Timothy J. **Brennan**, Molly **Macauley, and** Kate **White foot 2011** (May, A Proposed Analytical Framework, “Prizes, Patents, and Technology Procurement”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rff.org/documents/RFF-DP-11-21.pdf]]</span>, PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Publicity A mundane but not dismissible consideration is that, as George Carlin observed, </span>__people like to win prizes__ __…is attractive to corporations looking to burnish their image or wealthy donors seeking to signal their arrival.__



**2. Prizes motivates the private secotr– solves the case.**

**Kalil, 2006** <span style="font-size: 10px;">[Thomas, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress & Former Deputy Assistant to President Clinton for Technology and Economic Policy), “</span><span style="color: #282425; font-size: 10px;">Prizes for Technological Innovation,” The Hamilton Project, The Brookings Institution, Discussion Paper 2006-08, December]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Under certain circumstances, </span>__inducement prizes__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> may act as a useful …</span>__the time to start additional experiments is now__<span style="font-size: 10px;">. </span>



**3. prefer our evidence – best data.**

**Brunt et al., 2008** <span style="font-size: 10px;">[Liam, Professor of Economics -- University of Lausanne, Josh Lerner, Professor of Investment Banking -- Harvard Business School, with a joint appointment in the Finance and the Entrepreneurial Management Units., Tom Nicholas, Professor in the Entrepreneurial Management Group -- Harvard Business School, “Inducement Prizes and Innovation,”CEPR Discussion Paper, No. DP6917. July]</span>

__We have examined__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> probably </span>__the longest available panel dataset__ __… innovation inducement prizes do work__<span style="font-size: 10px;">. </span>



====<span style="font-size: 10px;">2NC AT: Links to Spending</span>==== 

**Prizes increase private investment, solves the investor confidence internal link**

**National Academy of Engineering**, 19**99**, Concerning Federally Sponsored Inducement Prizes in Engineering and Science, http://www.nap.edu/openbook/NI000221/html/R1.html#pagetop, p. 7

__A third advantage of prize contests may … and the probability of winning__.




===<span style="font-size: 11px;">1NC XO Cp</span>=== 

**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to <>. The President of the United States should appropriate sufficient funds to implement through internal budget re-allocations.**



<span class="Underline">**Solves the case and doesn’t link to politics.** </span>

**Goldman, 92** [Space Policy an Introduction, Iowa state Press, Nathan, <span class="apple-style-span">0813810248, p. google books] </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">ALTHOUGH THE CONSTITUTION establishes separation of …..party exerted itself politically and institutionally. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 11px;">1NC OSTP CP</span>=== 

**Text:** The United States Office of Science and Technology Policy should recommend that the United States federal government should __(do the plan).__ The Executive Branch of the United States federal government should provide the OSTP with all necessary resources to promote its recommendations.

**OSTP recommendation results in the aff**
**Holdren 2010** – director of office of technology and science development (January 26th, “Message from OSTP director John P. Holdren” http://semanticommunity.info/A_NITRD_Dashboard/OSTP_Open_Government_Plan
<span style="font-size: 11px;">President </span>__Obama has repeatedly articulated the indispensable role that science, technology, and innovation__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> ….by several weeks. OSTP scientists and advisors are currently studying public comments and plan to submit recommendations to senior officials soon.</span>

**he net benefit is politics**
**Space Politics 2007** (February 26th, “A Window of opportunity for export control reform” http://www.spacepolitics.com/2007/02/)
__The strategy proposed__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> by David Garner, ….of the legislation we created and they’re just going to continue to beat the crap out of us.”</span>

====2NC AT: Delay==== 



**No delay – congress will just attach the plan to an omnibus bill**

**Matthews, Lane, and Evans 2011–** Matthews is Ph.D., is a fellow in science and technology policy at the Baker Institute, Lane has a Ph.D and is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University and he is a Senior Fellow of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, where he is engaged in matters of science and technology policy, Evans is a Rice University graduate in physics (Kristin R.W., Neal, and Kenneth M., July 21st, “US Scientific Research and Development 202” [[http://www.scienceprogress.org/2011/07/u-s-scientific-research-and-development-202/]], PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Delayed budget approvals can cause severe problems for agencies, which usually must continue to work under the guidelines of their previous budgets and have no way of knowing when their budget will be approved or what it will look like. </span>__In order to avoid a chain of continuing resolutions, Congress will occasionally bundle the unresolved budget requests together as a single piece of legislation, known as an omnibusappropriations bill.Omnibus bills, which are becoming progressively more common, tend to contain a diverse set of unrelated legislative items. With specific regard to R&D funding, these last-resort bills provide a convenient platform for members of Congress, often with the encouragement of constituents__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> (e.g., universities) to include earmarks.</span>



====2NC AT: Say No==== 

**recommendations create political pressure that solves the case**

**OCALA** 2/1/**2010**. “A Leadership Deficit,” http://www.ocala.com/article/20100201/OPINION/100139994?p=2&tc=pg

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The next-best alternative would be for Congress to establish …</span> __budget commission to produce a similar success.__



**Political pressure is __more important__ than legislation – opposition to the plan means it is __more likely__ to be rolled back**

Christopher **Beam**, Slate Magazine, 7/14/**2010**. “Pelosi’s Paradox,” p. Lexis

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Then again, </span>__if you think about it, Congress binds itself all …Congress may not be able to bind itself, but politics can.__

====2NC AT: Perm Do CP==== 

Perm do cp

**1. severs certainty –**

**a. the counterplan has the OSTP recommend the plan – it doesn’t require implementation, making it distinct from the plan**

**Stine 2009** – Specialist in science and technology policy (Deborah D., June 3rd, “The President’s Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP): Issues for Congress, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl34736.pdf]], PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">In the third step, OMB worked with OSTP to review the proposed …</span> __The ultimate choices,__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> however, </span>__were made by the President__<span style="font-size: 10px;">, the OMB Director, and the Cabinet, according to Dr. Marburger.</span>



**b. Means the plan is not topical Resolved means “having a fixed purpose, resolute”**

**Websters Dictionary 96**



**2. severs immediacy –**

**a. recommendations have to undergo budget cycles**

**Clemins 2010 -** Director for the AAAS R&D Budget and Policy Program (Patrick J., December 16th, “overview of federal research and development funding” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southalabama.edu/research/retreat/ResearchRetreatFederal%20Update.pdf]]</span>, PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Joint memorandum from Office of Management and Budget (OMB) </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> any unfunded agency must shutdown unless a continuing resolution (CR) is passed</span>



**b.** **should means immediate**

Justice **Summer**, Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 19**94**, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14

<span style="font-size: 10px;">4 </span>__The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word "should__<span style="font-size: 10px;">"… </span>**__become effective in the future__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]]</span>, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>





**3. Severs USFG – requires multiple actors**

**Miller, ’86** (Congress, the Constitution, and First Use of Nuclear Weapons, Arthur, The Review of Politics, Vol. 48, No. 3 (Summer), pp. 424-455

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Three other points merit mention </span>**__in this discussion of collective …__****__each branch is part of an indivisible whole.__**



**sequencing matters - Perm will get leaked – triggers the link**

**Wilson and DiIulio, 98**. James Q. Wilson, professor of political science at UCLA, and John J. DiIulio, professor of political science at Princeton, 1998, American Government: Institutions and Policies, p. 291

**__American government is the leakiest in the world__****__. …__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> it is not against the law for the press to receive and print government secrets.</span>





====**2NC AT: Links to Politics**==== 

**Cp doesn’t require Congressional authorization – 1976 established guidelines for policy making**

**Cordis 2010** – research and innovation news source (March 16th, “Organizations” [[http://cordis.europa.eu/erawatch/index.cfm?fuseaction=org.document&uuid=7D87D233-A027-9287-D1F4D5ADB3AA19EA]], PZ)

__Congress established OSTP in 1976 …__<span style="font-size: 10px;"> it has not merged with any other organisations over the years. </span>





**4. No backlash - OSTP will lobby Congressman**

**A****merican Physical Society 2009** – topical group on quantum information (Spring, “A National Initiative in Quantum Science Information” Volume 4, Number 1, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aps.org/units/gqi/newsletters/upload/spring09.pdf]]</span>, PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Carl Williams of NIST and the OSTP kicked off the workshop by …</span> __the current administration may support growth in QIS funding__<span style="font-size: 10px;">, at least within the NSF.</span>





**5. Congress would love the CP**

**Stine 2009** – Specialist in science and technology policy (Deborah D., June 3rd, “The President’s Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP): Issues for Congress, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl34736.pdf]], PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">In the past, </span>__a number of Members of Congress have expressed … relate to the conclusions and recommendations of the summit__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>





**6. OSTP has bipartisan support**

**U.S. Government Printing Office 2009** (February 12th, “Nominations to the Executive Office of President and the Department of Commerce” [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg51471/html/CHRG-111shrg51471.htm]], PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">In conclusion, while our country clearly faces immense challenges in the economic, environmental, health, and security domains, among others, it is equally clear that science and technology can be key ingredients in turning those challenges into opportunities. But the pace of the advances we need for these purposes cannot be taken for granted. How quickly or slowly we get them is a substantial part a matter of policy. </span>__The O____ffice of Science and Technology …engineering, and innovation__<span style="font-size: 10px;">.</span>





**7. OSTP is bipartisan**

**US Government Printing Office 2002** (May 22nd, “federal research and development budget and the national science foundation” http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-107shrg91497/html/CHRG-107shrg91497.htm,PZ)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">In particular, among the provisions of the President's Management Agenda are investment criteria for research programs pilot-tested at DOE this past year. In consultation with stakeholders from agencies, industry, and academia, OMB and O</span>__STP are broadening …__<span style="font-size: 10px;">. I would be pleased to answer any questions.</span>




===1NC Courts=== 


**Text:** <span style="font-size: 16px;">The entire United States Supreme Court should rule that </span>





__**solvency-** we solve the aff__

__Christine <span style="font-size: 16px;">Bateup</span> (historical scholar and JSD Candidate at NYU, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2006</span>. (71 Brooklyn L. Rev. 1109, “The Dialogic Promise Assessing The Normative Potential of Theories of Constitutional Dialogue,” ln)__


__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">The most prominent descriptions of constitutional …, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">in the long term, the production of</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">[*1160] stable and </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 15px;">broadly supported answers to questions of constitutional meaning</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> 194</span>








====2NC AT: Courts Can't do Space==== 



**Courts have the authority to do the plan – US law proves**

**Ro, Kleiman, & Hammerle 11** (Theodore U., intellectual property attorney at Johnson Space Center, works for NASA, Matthew J., corporate Counsel @ Draper Laboratory @ Cambridge, Kurt G., intellectual property attorney for NASA, http://bujostl.org/content/WORKING_PATENT_INFRINGEMENT_IN_OUTER_SPACE.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Consistent with the framework established by the Outer Space Treaty, </span>**__… and would only succeed if the activity is covered by a U.S. patent.__**





**Courts have authority in space – Decca case establishes precedent**

**Ro, Kleiman, & Hammerle 11** (Theodore U., intellectual property attorney at Johnson Space Center, works for NASA, Matthew J., corporate Counsel @ Draper Laboratory @ Cambridge, Kurt G., intellectual property attorney for NASA, http://bujostl.org/content/WORKING_PATENT_INFRINGEMENT_IN_OUTER_SPACE.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">For the most part, </span>**__U.S. courts have focused on defining__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> …</span> **__an infringement claim on a U.S patent.35__**

====**<span style="color: #000000;">2NC AT: No Test Case</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Court can find a test case for anything</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Adamany ’90</span>**[David, Professor @ Wayne State, The American Courts: A Critical Assessment, p. 9]

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Since Congress adopted the Judges Bill of 1925, most cases on the appellate and miscellaneous dockets have been by writ of certiorari — a request for the justices to hear cases that they may, but are not required, to hear. Under Supreme Court Rule 17, which gives broad categories of cases that the Court may hear, at least four justices must agree to hear a case before it is considered by the Court. Some cases on the appellate docket have been “appeals by right,” certain cases involving the constitutionality of state or federal laws or state constitutional provisions. By law, the Court was required to hear these cases; but the justices developed broad discretion by rejecting cases that failed to pose a substantial federal question as defined by the justices. In 1988, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Congress revised the law</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> virtually to eliminate appeals by right, …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">within the past twenty years when the Court had also ordered reargument to determine whether an earlier decision should be reconsidered and changed.</span></span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Courts can functionally implement policy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Quirk and Bridwell 95</span>**

WILLIAM J. Quirk, Professor of Legal Research at University of South Carolina Law School and R. RANDALL Bridwell, Professor of Law at University of South Carolina Law School, JUDICIAL DICTATORSHIP, 1995

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">We would answer that the Court is the “least dangerous” branch as Alexander Hamilton said…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">as a Court of National Policy</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Don’t need a test case</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">O’Brien 5</span>** (David M., Professor of Judicial Politics and Public Law – Woodrow Wilson Department of Politics at the University of Virginia, Storm Center: The Supreme Court in American Politics, p. 170-171)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Although most cases now come as certiorari petitions,</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">prohibition </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">ordering</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> lower courts or </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">public officials</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> either </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">to</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> do something or </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">refrain from</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> some </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">action</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>__</span>



====2NC AT: Perm do Cp==== 

**1.Perm is severance –**



**a. normal means for the plan is Congress**

**Young 8** (Anthony, Author – The Saturn V F-1 Engine: Powering Apollo into History, “Review: Spaceflight and the Myth of Presidential Leadership”, The Space Review, 9-29, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1218/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">The authors in this book put forth the views that </span>__US …__<span style="font-size: 10px;">, it might also realistically lower expectations of what the next US president will promote and achieve.</span>





**b. Empirics prove**

Brian **Berger**, space news writer, January 10th, 200**5**, “NASA uses budgetary authority to shift funds towards exploration vision” http://www.space.com/652-nasa-budgetary-authority-shift-funds-exploration-vision.html

<span style="font-size: 10px;">While </span>__Congress gave NASA__ __nearly its entire $16.2 billion budget request … budget negotiations last autumn__









**2. Perm severs the certainty of the plan**



**a. They fiat guaranteed implementation – we only fiat the court –we'll win compliance but its not something we fiat – this severs aff certainty**

**Pacelle,** Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, 20**02**

(Richard, “The role of the Supreme Court in American politics: the least dangerous branch?”, pg 102, ldg, DOA: 5-3-11)

__Judicial decisions are not self-fulfilling directives. … a loss of institutional legitimacy for the Court.__

====2NC AT: Perm Do Both==== 

**<span style="color: #333333;">more evidence</span>**<span style="color: #333333;">- distancing is key, perm prevents</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whittington 3</span> (Keith, Princeton University, Department of Politics, November 17, 2003, http://www.law.northwestern.edu/colloquium/legalhistory/Keith%20Whittington.pdf)

An<span class="underline"> active and </span>independent Court can assume the blame <span class="underline">…</span> autonomy in interpreting those commitments.

==== ==== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11px;">1NC Consult Russia</span>=== 


**Text: The United States federal government should propose that it to the Russian Federation through the** **U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**



**Consultation now through the BPC is key to broader relations – recent developments have reduced tensions, but disagreements threaten cooperation – now is __uniquely key__**

**Rojansky, ‘7-13** <span style="font-size: 11px;">[7/13/11, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Matthew Rojansky</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, SM]</span>__The 2009 reset was an urgently ….__<span style="font-size: 11px;">next necessary steps in the coming year.</span>





**Unilateral action crushes relations**

**O’Flynn 10**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> – (3/24/10, Kevin O’Flynn, special to Russia Now, “Russia makes space for U.S.,” [[http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/03/24/240310_space.html]] DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">On April 2, </span>__new Soyuz crew members, two ….**as scientific endeavor.**__





**3. US-Russian relations prevent extinction**

**Cohen, 2k** **-** <span style="font-size: 11px;">professor of Russian studies at New York University, (Stephen, </span>__Failed Crusade__<span style="font-size: 11px;">, p. 196-205)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">These assurances are manifestly untrue and, ….. American president may make that decision, but our children and grandchildren will reap the benefits or pay the price. </span>
===1NC Ukraine Cp=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should grant Ukraine permission to launch DSCOVR.**

**They would say yes - Ukraine wants to launch DSCOVR**
**Clark 9** (Spaceflight Now, “Mothballed satellite sits in warehouse, waits for new life”, March 2nd, http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n0903/01dscovr/, MBIBAS)

__France and Ukraine later proposed launching DSCOVR …..__<span style="font-size: 9px;">Valero said. But federal law restricts NASA payloads launching on foreign rockets. </span>
====<span style="font-size: 9px;">2NC Cards</span>==== 

**Solves the case**
**Dartford 11** (Matt, “Who killed the DSCOVR Satellite” April 6th, [[http://sigalontech.soup.io/tag/noaa]], MBIBAS)
Valero fled his native Argentina in ….You can't get the whole story."
===1NC Congress CP=== 

**Solvency: they have the authority to do so**
**Goldman, 92** [Space Policy an Introduction, Iowa state Press, Nathan, 0813810248, p. google books]
__Besides its role in the funding process__<span style="font-size: 10px;">, </span>__Congress has … be easily overstated."__



**Net benefit:** it’s politics
David **__Schoenbrod__**, 19**__93__**, Professor of Law, New York Law School, Adjunct Scholar, CATO Institute, “Power Without Responsibility,” p.95-96
__The president, who__ of course __influences the design of__ __…**to particularize constituents’ perceptions of costs and benefits.**__

====**2NC Agencies Shield**==== 
**agencies shield**


**a. allows them to default onto other actors**
**Mayer and Price 2** professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin Madison & graduate student at the University of Wisconsin—Madison [Kenneth R. Mayer, and Kevin Price, Presidential Studies Quarterly, 6.1.02 lexis]
By using their formal powers, presidents structure …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> resources to undo what the president has done.</span>__

**<span style="color: #000000;">b. Gates proves</span>**
**Ambinder 8/9/**10
(Mark, <span style="color: #000000;">olitics editor of </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">The Atlantic</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">. He has covered Washington for ABC News and the Hotline, and he is chief political consultant to CBS News, “</span><span style="color: #242b30;">The Political Audacity of Bob Gates”, </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/08/the-political-audacity-of-bob-gates/61190/greenhill-chris|http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/08/the-political-audacity-of-bob-gates/61190///greenhill-chris]]</span>)
__<span style="color: #000000;">Gates is the cabinet's superstar. ..case against Obama's stewardship of the national security establishment.</span>__

**C. empirics**
**Shane 95** Dean and Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh (Peter, “Political Accountability in a System of Checks and Balances: The Case of Presidential Review of Rulemaking”, 48 Ark. L. Rev. 161, 1995)

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Such was the regulatory oversight system …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10px;">especially given a campaign promise to be the "environmental president." 64 That would, of course, be the opposite of accountability</span>

===1NC LEO PIC=== 


**Crowding in the LEO causes conflict and accidents, collapses the satellite industry, and increases debris**
**Day 11**(Michael, The Telegraph, “Space Junk: A Risky Game of Space Invaders”, February 1st, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8135495/Space-junk-a-risky-game-of-space-invaders.html]]</span>, MBIBAS)
<span style="font-size: 9px;">When, </span>__in__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> the early hours of February 10, </span>__2009, an American …__<span style="font-size: 9px;"> way station for the phone calls, radio signals and electronic data transfers that keep the information economy ticking over. </span>

====2NC Turns Case Cards==== 
**1. __timeframe__ – competition over orbital slots occurs __before__ satellites are launched to fill them – means it’s impossible for the aff to access our scenarios for conflict**
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/plm.htm|Pamela L. ]]</span>[[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/plm.htm|**Meredith**]] **__and__** <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.zsrlaw.com/attorneys/atty_bios/rbt.htm|Rachel B. **Trinder**]]</span>, 6-11-19**__98__**, co-chair the Space Law Group at the Washington, DC law firm of Zuckert, Scoutt & Rasenberger, L.L.P., advise US and foreign space interests on a variety of regulatory and transactional issues, Meredith also teaches satellite communications law at American University’s law school, and Ms. Trinder is a member of the Executive Committee of the International Institute of Air & Space Law in Leiden, The Netherlands, “Financing a communications satellite venture: assessing regulatory risk is key,” Satellite Finance, Issue 4, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.zsrlaw.com/publications/articles/rbt980611.htm]]</span>
**__In order to protect__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> the FCC satellite frequency and </span>**__…__**<span style="font-size: 10px;">slots in the same frequency band need to be two degrees apart in order to avoid interference.</span>

**4. only a risk that the disad __turns the case__ – conflicts over orbital slots prevent effective deployment of space control**
Theresa **__Hitchens__**, 10-2-200**__3__**, Vice President, Center for Defense Information, “U.S. Weaponization of Space: Implications for International Security,” presented to: The Workshop on Outer Space and International Security, Sponsored by: The Center for International Security Studies at Maryland And The Institute for USA and Canada Studies, Sept. 29, 2003, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745]]</span>
While the costs to industry and their pass-on to consumers (including governments) … **__The breakdown of the voluntary ITU system for sharing space could result in chaos as nations compete for orbital real-estate__**.



**__miscalculation__ – mistrust of foreign INTENT ENSURES the US escalates DISPUTES**
**__POST__**, 200**__6__**, Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, postnote, December, Number 273, “Military uses of space,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">National space policies, while giving importance to international …</span>**__over orbital slot allocations__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> (Box 5).</span>


**__foreign miscalculation__ – routine satellite failure will be falsely perceived as US aggression, ensuring foreign escalation of conflicts**
Christopher A. **__Coffelt__**, June 200**__5__**, Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy, p. 95
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Those that operate satellite systems and are familiar with … make it harder for the us to protect its own systems and access to space.</span>


**Debris makes space unusable**
**Imburgia 11** **<span style="font-size: 6px;">– Lt. Col. and Judge Advocate in Air Force</span>**
<span style="font-size: 6px;">Joseph S. Imburgia, J.D., University of Tennessee College of Law (2002); LL.M., The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center & School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, Va. (2009)), a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia, 2011, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Scholar</span>

Some experts believe that __once space debris … disintegrate in Earth’s atmosphere__.56

===1NC James Webb CP=== 
**Text: The Office of Management and Budget should recommend delaying the Space Launch System to pay for the James Webb Space Telescope.**

**Counter-plan solves James Webb and Mars exploration**
**Friedman 10/10** (Lou. Former Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects, JPL. Former Executive Director, The Planetary Society. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1947/1]]</span>)
**__Desperate times bring desperate reactions, … allowing the American role in 2016/2018 to proceed, and pay for a host of other science and technology initiatives__**<span style="font-size: 9px;">.</span>
====2NC AT: Say no==== 
**Wolf will say yes- he’s looking to compromise he just needs to know where to cut**
**Washington Post 10/13** (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/budget-fight-rages-over-james-webb-space-telescope/2011/10/13/gIQALjYLKM_story_1.html]]</span>)
**__Its fate__** **__for now rests on negotiations between__** …. **__“I think the Senate and I will be able to work it out,” Wolf said__**.

====2NC AT: solvency deficit==== 
**Mars exploration is the key internal link to NASA/ESA cooperation**
**Friedman 10/24** (Lou. Former Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects, JPL. Former Executive Director, The Planetary Society. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1956/1]]</span>)
I can’t be sure that this episode of the past applies … **__ESA is turning to Russia to see if they will launch the orbiter.__**
====2NC AT: Links to politics==== 
**OMB shields**
**Space Politics 2007** (February 26th, “A Window of opportunity for export control reform” http://www.spacepolitics.com/2007/02/)
__The strategy proposed__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> by David Garner,… of the legislation we created and they’re just going to continue to beat the crap out of us.”</span>
===1NC Molniya CP - v. SPS=== 
**Text:** The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate two space based solar power satellites. The United States federal government should place these satellites in a highly elliptic 3-hour sub-Molniya orbit.

**First is competition –**
**Normal means for the plan is placement in the Geosynchronous orbit**
**__NSSO__**, 200**__8__**, National Space Security Office, Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Enter the four-decade-old concept of space solar power (SSP). …free from the volatile fuel expenses and vulnerabilities of conventional energy systems. </span>


**Second is solvency -**
**the cp solves better than the aff**
**Jones 2010** - Co-managing Partner at Exploration Partneres, LLC Past: Corporal at USMC (Royce, Winter, “Solar Power Satellites” Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16, PZ)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">This paper offers </span>__a new space solar power reference design based on an elliptical 3-Hour sub-Molniya orbit__<span style="font-size: 11px;">….</span> __has the potential to substantially reduce SSP satellite mass.__
===__1NC CSSI CP - v. DSCOVR__=== 
**Text: The Center for Space Standards and Innovation should fund an observatory to monitor space weather and warn of solar storms, including but not limited to solar sails.**

**Solves the case**
**Chow 2010 –** SWF Research Assistant (Tiffany, November 10th, “SSA Sharing Program” SWF Issue Brief, PZ)
__Center for Space Standards and Innovation (CSSI… CA and COLA services for participating satellite owner____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">‐</span>operators.65__
==Impact Turns== 

===Democracy=== 
====**war**==== 
**Democracies cause war**
**Ostrawski, 02**<span style="font-size: 10px;">(James, a trial and appellate lawyer and libertarian author from Buffalo, New York. He graduated from St. Joseph’s Collegiate Institute in 1975 and obtained a degree in philosophy from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1980. His articles have appeared in the Wall Street Journal, Buffalo News, Cleveland Plain Dealer and Legislative Gazette. His policy studies have been published by the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, the Ludwig von Mises Institute at Auburn University, and the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C. His articles have been used as course materials at numerous colleges including Brown, Rutgers and Stanford, “The Myth of Democratic Peace: Why Democracy Cannot Deliver Peace in the 21st Century,” Lewell Rock, http://www.lewrockwell.com/ostrowski/ostrowski72.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">A myriad of </span>__domestic political concerns …. profit be subordinated to production for use.__
**Democracies cause authoritarian regimes**
Ostrawski, 02<span style="font-size: 10px;">, (James, a trial and appellate lawyer and libertarian author from Buffalo, New York “The Myth of Democratic Peace: Why Democracy Cannot Deliver Peace in the 21st Century,” Lewell Rock, http://www.lewrockwell.com/ostrowski/ostrowski72.html)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10px;">Supporting dictatorships. Paradoxically, </span>democracies____<span style="font-size: 10px;">…</span> world’s leading arms importers, including dictatorial United States ally, Saudi Arabia.__


<span class="Underline">History proves no relationship between democracies and peace</span>
<span class="Underline">Ostrawski, 02</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">, (James, a trial and appellate lawyer and libertarian author from Buffalo, New York “The Myth of Democratic Peace: Why Democracy Cannot Deliver Peace in the 21st Century,” Lewell Rock, http://www.lewrockwell.com/ostrowski/ostrowski72.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Spencer R. </span><span class="Underline">Weart alleges that democracies …This paper makes a beginning in that direction.</span>

====__<span style="text-decoration: none;">Prolif </span>__==== 
**Turn – Proliferation**

**A. Democracies cause prolif**
**Ostrawski, 02** <span style="font-size: 10px;">(James, a trial and appellate lawyer and libertarian author from Buffalo, New York. He graduated from St. Joseph’s Collegiate Institute in 1975 and obtained a degree in philosophy from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1980. His articles have appeared in the Wall Street Journal, Buffalo News, Cleveland Plain Dealer and Legislative Gazette. His policy studies have been published by the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, the Ludwig von Mises Institute at Auburn University, and the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C. His articles have been used as course materials at numerous colleges including Brown, Rutgers and Stanford, “The Myth of Democratic Peace: Why Democracy Cannot Deliver Peace in the 21st Century,” Lewell Rock, </span><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/ostrowski/ostrowski72.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">)</span>

__Arguably, the greatest threat to world ….democracies are a major part of the problem.__

**B. Extinction**
**Utgoff, 02** <span style="font-size: 10px;">- Deputy Director for Strategy, Forces, and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses, (Summer, Victor, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, Volume 44, Number 2, p. 87-90) </span>

__Widespread proliferation is likely to lead to ….of dead cities or even whole nations.__

===SKFTA=== 
====NK War==== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18px;">KORUS inflames tensions with North Korea and risks conflict.</span>**

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Stevenson 12/13</span>__

Ian Stevenson. “KORUS: Good for South Korea, but Who Else?”. December 13, 2010.

http://blogcritics.org/politics/article/korus-good-for-south-korea-but/#ixzz1A5NB4MhC”



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">KORUS is already being seen by …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">may actually push the two sides closer to war.</span>__</span>



====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18px;">Alliance</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">SKFTA kills the alliance </span>**

Dong Sun **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Lee</span>**, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">and</span>** Sung Eun **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kim</span>**, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2009</span>**. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association, p. All Academic



<span style="font-size: 10px;">IR theory suggests that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the FTA could</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> in fact </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">undermine the U.S.-… of the Pacific, chipping away at public support for the alliance</span>__**



**Relations solve a laundry list of impacts**

**Sharp 2010**<span style="font-size: 9px;"> (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26) Calum</span>



<span style="font-size: 9px;">A </span>__key part of U.S. security policy in Asia … Asia - a region of key national interest to the U.S.__



**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tying economics kills the relation</span>**

Dong Sun **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Lee</span>**, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">and</span>** Sung Eun **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kim</span>**, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2009</span>**. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association, p. All Academic

<span style="font-size: 10px;">IR theory suggests that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the FTA could</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> in fact </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">… Pacific, chipping away at public support for the alliance</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Protectionist backlash</span>**

Sung Eun **Kim**, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University, **2010**. “Ties That Bind: Assessing the Impact of Economic Interdependence on East Asian Alliances,” http://www.eai.or.kr/data/bbs/eng_report/201002251819214.pdf

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Despite its wide acceptance, however, __few scholars … **overconfidence** in the strength of the alliance`__ </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Nationalist backlash and asymetrics</span>**

Dong Sun **Lee**, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago **and** Sung Eun **Kim**, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, **2009**. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The asymmetrical nature of the U.S.-ROK … the KORUS FTA would unlikely have the desired security effect because of the aforementioned reason</span>__





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Prefer our ev – it’s based on rigorous empirical research </span>**

Dong Sun **Lee**, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago **and** Sung Eun **Kim**, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute and MA in Poli Sci from Korea University The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment, **2009**. Annual Convention of the International Studies Association, p. All Academic

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In an attempt to fill this void in the literature, __this article reassesses … to the KORUS FTA case.__</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Relations high- military</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">DefPro News</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 10/11/10 (“US South Korea Alliance Remains Strong Leaders Say”) <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/18608/]]</span></span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The two leaders confirmed</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> that the U.S.-South Korea strategic … will not be tolerated.”</span>__**



====**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">Economy </span>__**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">US trade groups are terrible at predicting the impacts of FTAs – SKFTA is more likely to kill the economy </span>**

Dustin **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Ensinger</span>**, Economy in Crisis, **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2010</span>**. “South Korea FTA’s Impacts on U.S.,” http://www.economyincrisis.org/content/south-korea-ftas-impacts-us



<span style="font-size: 10px;">Despite claims to the contrary by the U.S. International Trade Commission, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the proposed S</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">outh …, sap American wages and further erode the nation’s once-proud manufacturing base.</span>__**





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">( ) Job and growth rate are on the rise in South Korea – G20 summit proves.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bernama Online 10/7/10 (“G-20 Summit To Help Boost Korean Economy, Job Creation”) <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bernama.com.my/bernama/v5/newsindex.php?id=533404]]</span></span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The upcoming Seoul summit</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> of the Group of 20 nations will likely … economy would surpass 31 trillion won</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(US$27.9 billion). </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Jobs and Deficits</span>

Dustin <span style="font-size: 16px;">Ensinger</span>, Economy in Crisis, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2010</span>. “South Korea FTA’s Impacts on U.S.,” http://www.economyincrisis.org/content/south-korea-ftas-impacts-us


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10px;">Despite claims to the contrary by the U.S. International Trade Commission, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">… American jobs overseas, sap American wages and further erode the nation’s once-proud manufacturing base.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Deficits outweigh</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Eyes on Trade 12/7/2010</span>. “Krugman Slams Korea FTA,” http://citizen.typepad.com/eyesontrade/2010/12/krugman-slams-korea-fta.html


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Krugman notes</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10px;"> - and we have pointed out previously – that U.</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">S. …FTA will likely stunt the economic recovery and destroy American jobs</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10px;">.</span>





==2NR's== 

Wake –

Round 1 v. Loyola AD (Critical Nuclear Pulse Propulsion)

1NC: Courts, Framework, Elections DA, Spending, Weaponization, T human, case defense

Block: Framework, Courts, Case, Elections DA

2nr: Framework, Courts, Elections DA


Round 3 v. Westminster (SPS)

1NC: T human, prizes cp, XO cp, elections DA, spending, weaponization, case

Block: prizes cp, spending, case, elections DA

2nr: prizes, spending, elections


Round 5 v. Alpharetta (Lunar solar power)

1NC: T space particles, prizes, elections DA, spending, case

block: T space particles, prizes, case, Elections DA

2nr: T space particles


Octas v. Little Rock (Critical Constellation)

1NC: framework, courts cp, consult Russia, elections DA, spending DA, case

Block: framework, courts cp, case, elections DA

2nr: framework, case

Quarters v. Edgemont (commercial satellites)

1NC: T increase, congress cp, reverse ptx, spending DA, GEO DA, prizes, case

Block: congress cp, reverse ptx, case

2nr: congress cp, reverse ptx



Greenhill –

Round 2 v. Bingham (SBMD)

1NC: T human, XO CP, OSTP Cp, politics, spending, space mil, case

Block: OSTP, space mil, case, politics

2nr: OSTP cp, politics


Round 4 v. CPS (DSCOVR)

1NC: T human, T subs, Ukraine CP, Politics, XO Cp, case D

Block: T human, Ukraine CP, case, Politics

2nr: Politics, case


Round 5 v. Dowling (SBMD)

1NC: T human, LEO PIC, XO Cp, Politics, Spending, Space Mil, case

Block: T human, LEO Pic, case, politics

2nr: T human


Meadows -

Round 2 v. Heritage Hall (James Webb)

1NC: T human, Case specific CP (james webb cp), politics, spending, case

Block: T, Cp, case, politics

2nr: cp, politics


Round 3 v. Brophy (SPS)

1NC: T human, Molniya Cp, GEO DA, Politics , case

Block: T, case, politics

2nr: politics, case


Round 6 v. CPS (DSCOVR)

1NC: T human, CSSI Cp, Politics, case

Block: T, politics, case

2nr: politics, case