[[toc]]
=<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Notes</span>= 
**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">OH NO SWITCHEROO!!!!!</span>**
**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">For cites, email Jon S. at "Jondsussman[at]gmail[dot]com"</span>**
**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Full text cites are probably bad - if you want them, justify them in an email (I.E. no source article, that kinda thing) - <3 Madeleine - 1AC's and Neg Strats will be posted - email Jon incessantly if you want things (it may take four emails) because he checks them and forgets five minutes later - funzies. If you email Alex, there is a chance you won't get anything because he is lazy and frankly has recently adopted a ZFG policy, thank you for understanding.</span>**
=<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">METI</span>== 
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">1AC Communicative Action Ethics</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Our first contention is a Silent Armageddon:</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">First note: Contact is inevitable - No chance Aliens are violent, if there is a super civilization with the intent to destroy and enslave us, they would have already found us</span>**</span><span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Zaitsev 11** – (Alexander, //Rationale For METI, 2011,// Zaitsev is the chief scientist at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Academy_of_Science|Russian Academy of Science]]'s Institute of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio|Radio]] Engineering and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronics|Electronics]]. He heads the group transmitting Team Encounter's [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_messages|interstellar messages]], PDF, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">They will have long ago found an unusual <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> AND away in the future because of "apathy"</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Communication can only help guide our interactions with Intelligent life –we will always try to communicate, METI is the most scientific way to do that</span>**</span><span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Chafer ’11** – (Charles M., On a Radar Scientific PhD Panel with Zaitsev Making a Case for METI [[http://www.setileague.org/edi%20tor/meti.htm|http://www.setileague.org/edi tor/meti.htm]], Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">1. METI is not scientific. Quite AND - someone has to make the first move. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">In the squo everybody listening but nobody is talking; this is the SETI paradox - if we do not communicate we will fall into an isolationist trap – this robs us of our individual agency and causes literal extinction</span>**</span><span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Zaitsev 11** – (Alexander, //Rationale For METI, 2011,// Zaitsev is the chief scientist at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Academy_of_Science|Russian Academy of Science]]'s Institute of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio|Radio]] Engineering and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronics|Electronics]]. He heads the group transmitting Team Encounter's [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_messages|interstellar messages]], PDF, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">METI and the Great Silence In 1999, AND self-isolated civilization due to “apathy”.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">We control the brink to extinction and spillover; a time in history is approaching where we can understand the significance of mortality and access the root cause of their impacts – the aff solves</span>**</span><span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Rifkin 10** - (Jeremy; an American economist, writer, public speaker, political advisor and activist. He is the founder and president of the Foundation On Economic Trends, transcript of his video “The Empathic Civilization – Membership of the RSA, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The Empathic Civilisation. In the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">last ten </span>AND and prepare the groundwork for an empathic civilisation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Our method of communication is the way to solve for status quo SETI – we end contemplation and defend all that encompasses exploration</span>**</span><span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Zaitsev ’06** – (Alexander – We have like 6 cards by him – “The SETI Paradox” - [[http://arxiv.org/abs/arxiv:physics/0611283]], PDF, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">How universal is consciousness? So far we AND existence of extraterrestrial life is con- firmed<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The transition from SETI would be a trade-off of spending and technology – their evidence assumes Active SETI</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Zaitsev ’06** – (Alexander – We have like 6 cards by him – “A Case for METI” - [[http://arxiv.org/abs/arxiv:physics/0611283]], PDF, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Thosewho propose, or oppose, sending AND 9-dimensional space of questions for consideration: </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Can't solve; re-orienting the Goldstone observatory through government action is key</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Zaitsev 11** – (Alexander, //Rationale For METI, 2011,// Zaitsev is the chief scientist at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Academy_of_Science|Russian Academy of Science]]'s Institute of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio|Radio]] Engineering and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronics|Electronics]]. He heads the group transmitting Team Encounter's [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_messages|interstellar messages]], PDF, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Introduction For more than 50 years of space AND appearance of possible eccentricities of those noted scientists… </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Our Advocacy Statement:</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Thus, Jon and I think that United States federal government refit the Goldstone radar observatory to include Interstellar Radio Messaging capabilities to implement the METI program**.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Our third contention suggests a frame of communication before strategy:</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The Negative should have to identify and provide criteria for evaluation of their frameworks in the 1NC in order for the affirmative to have a constructive to answer this argument. Given that framework changes the lens for the evaluation of the debate. This demand is not unreasonable. Implied or assumed frameworks in the 1NC should not be considered by the judges at the end of the debate. This is the best model for deliberation and policy making because it allows the debate about framework to be at minimum discussed in more depth</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Edward L. **Rubin** JULY, **1992** 80 Calif. L. Rev. 889Professor, Boalt Hall School of Law, University of California, Berkeley. On Beyond Truth: A Theory for Evaluating Legal Scholarship. Lexis, Sussman </span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Central to Habermas' theory is an analysis of __AND policy or to more intelligent scholarly debate__. 89</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">This framework of communicative action is particularly important in the context of constructive engagement. Dialogue, specifically with the Alien other, should be centered around communication and not strategy. Utilitarian and monologic framework cannot be communicative action. They dont factor in the ethical voice of the opposing parties in negotiations. Only our framework provides an ethical and rational model for extraterrestrial relations</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Muller 01** (Harald, Dir. Of Peace Research Institute Frankfurt and Prof. of IR at Frankfurt University, “International Relations as Communicative Action”, Constructing International Relations: the next generation, eds Fierke and Jorgensen, 2001 pp 160-165, Sussman)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">This chapter is the result of an increasing <span class="underline">AND all a measure of “trust building.”</span> 2 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">This kind of conditional framework is by nature strategic action, which should be rejected as it does not allow a full consideration of ethical concerns and centers on agent-specific explanations for the judge to weigh competing impacts. This eliminates moral and ethical considerations. That’s impacted above.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Seyla **Benhabib, 2002** professor of political science and philosophy at Yale and director of the program in Ethics, Politics, and Economics The Claims of Culture: Equality and Diversity in the Global Era p. 143-44, SussmanSince its earliest formulations in works like Legitimation AND the same reason does not seem too implausible.</span>
=<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Human</span>=== 
<span style="color: #222362; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**Exploration is physical human presence in space**</span>
<span style="color: #222362; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**Logsdon 9** (<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]</span> Dr. Logsdon is Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International…MIT white paper. </span>

<span style="color: #222362; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**So is development**</span>
<span style="color: #222362; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">**Livingston 07** – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]]</span></span>
<span style="color: #222362; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">__Eric Westling … **projects in space**__.</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Mesosphere</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">“Beyond” means outside the limits of</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Collins 9(**Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">-- //prep// 1. at or to a point on the other side of; at or to the further side of: //beyond those hills there is a river// 2. outside the limits or scope of: //beyond this country's jurisdiction//</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">That means activities __must__ occur __above__ 50 miles from the Earth’s surface</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**WC 11**(Weather Channel – Weather Glossary, “M”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/m.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__MESOSPHERE__ The layer of __the__ <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/a.html#atmo|atmosphere]]</span> __located__ between the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/s.html#strato|stratosphere]]</span> and __the__ <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/i.html#iono|ionosphere]]</span>, where<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.weather.com/glossary/t.html#temp|temperatures]]</span> drop rapidly with increasing height. __It extends__ between 31 and 50 miles (17 to 80 kilometers) above the earth's surface</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Block Cards</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Resolutional Intent</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Athena 10** (Upper Atmosphere Wiki, “Mesosphere”, 4-26, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.athena-spu.gr/%7Eupperatmosphere/index.php/%20Mesosphere|http://www.athena-spu.gr/~upperatmosphere/index.php/ Mesosphere]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Being the .... a pressing need. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Causes people to switch to LD - No one cares about that, right?</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Rowland, 8**4(Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The first major ... to cancel their programs</span>
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Air Force DA</span>=== 
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Funding new long-range bombers depend on the current Air Force budget – new programs kill it****Majumdar ‘11** (Dave Majumdar, Defense News, “U.S. Air Force Bomber Plans Hinge On Savings,” 1-17-2011,</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=5469848|http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=54698]]</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">If the U.S. Air Force … they'll find the money. Not to worry," he said.</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Cancellation of the bomber program triggers deterrence failures****Gunzinger ‘10** (Mark A. Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at CSBA, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Transformation and Resources, former Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council staff, a key player in every major defense review since the end of the Cold War, retired Air Force Colonel and Command Pilot, M.S. National Security Strategy, National War College, Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Master of Public Administration from Central Michigan University, and B.S. Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike,” Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-14-2010, p.76, [[@http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/2010.09.14-Sustaining-Americas-Strategic-Advantage-in-Long-Range-Strike.pdf]])</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Sustaining the Air Leg of the Nuclear …and declaring it as nuclearcapable.</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**This creates three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation****Williams ‘10** (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010,[[@http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf]])</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The case for the continuity of … and its commitment to defending South Korea</span>

===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China opposes modernization now</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Xinhua 11** (“China opposes arms race in outer space,” [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2011-03/31/content_12256483.htm]], 3/31/11, NEAYLON)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__The Chinese__ __...__ says the white paper.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Missile defense forces Chinese response causing an arms race and instability</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Lister 11**(Charles, author, writer and analyst, studied IR, [[http://www.e-ir.info/?p=7712]], “US Missile Defense and Space Security,” 3/18/11, NEAYLON)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China has long been an opponent of weaponizing outer space and is a leading member of the Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space (PAROS) initiative. Conversely, __the U.S. has__ __...__ that will now be discussed.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Chinese nuclear modernization causes an arms race – causes miscalculation and extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Twomey, 09** – Professor at the Naval Postgraduate College (Christopher P., “Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs”, Arms Control Association, January/February 2009, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism]], KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__China and the U__nited __S__tates __are not in__ __...__ in an intense crisis.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">India Launch</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">India is leading the international launch market</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Defense News India, 4/21(**“India Shows Leadership in Satellite Launch Technology,” Thursday, April 21, 2011, leading Indian military think tank)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__India has__ __reaffirmed__ ... geosynchronous launch capability.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SPS allows the U.S. to recapture the launch market</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Nansen, 2K(**President Solar Space Industries, (Ralph, Statement to the United States Congress Subcommittee on Space Science “The Technical Feasibility of Space Solar Power” Before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, United States House of Representatives Committee on Science September 7, 2000, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=2571)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__Solar power satellite development__ __... provider for the world.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Indian launch leadership is key to its soft power </span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Lele, 07** (Research Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. Ajey, India Strategic, “Space Program Addin to India’s Brand Image” July 2007, http://www.indiastrategic.in/topstories23.htm)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__International prestige__ __.... in space research and capabilities__.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">That’s key to global democracy promotion – solves war, terrorism, environmental collapse, and disease</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Diamond, 07**(Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University(Larry, Times of India, "India, Take the Lead," 12-13-2007, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/Opinion/Editorial/LEADER_ARTICLE_India_Take_The_Lead/articleshow/2617945.cm)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__Whether it wants to__ __...__ to host such visits. </span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Microwaves</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SPS interferes with astronomer detection frequencies</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Hoffert and Potter, 97**—Ph.D., astronautics, The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, M.A., liberal studies, sociology, and economics at the New school for Social Research in Michigan, professor of physics at NYU, Potter has a B.A. and M.A. in Physics from Columbia University, Associate Technical Fellow at The Boeing Company (Martin and Seth, “Beam it Down: How the New Satellites Can Power the World,” October 1997, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/beam_it_down_how_the_new_satellites_can_power_the_world.shtml)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__A bigger potential problem is__ __... born.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Key to prevent extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Jones 08**—scientist, author, pilot, and former NASA astronaut, he holds a doctorate in planetary sciences, and in more than eleven years with NASA, flew on four space shuttle missions to Earth orbit</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">(Thomas, “Asteroid detection: Planning for the inevitable,” October, Lexis Nexis)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">At least we are __... more than 5,000!__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Block Cards</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Empirics prove</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Cox and Chestek ’96**(Donald W., Doctor in Education and James H., Professional Engineer, “Doomsday Asteroid: can we survive?”, Print)//DT</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__We live in a ...__ __bombs."1__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">More evidence</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**National Research Council 81**—A report by the Committee on Satellite Power Systems, Environmental Studies Board, Commission on Natural Resources</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">(“Electric Power From Orbit: A Critique of a Satellite Power System,” p. xxvii)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__The reference SPS ...__ __SPS radiation__ within radio astronomy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Increases Sky Brightness</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**National Research Council 81**—A report by the Committee on Satellite Power Systems, Environmental Studies Board, Commission on Natural Resources</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">(“Electric Power From Orbit: A Critique of a Satellite Power System,” p. 100)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__To understand__ __...__ __Most optical objects of cosmological interest in astronomy are fainter than 3 percent of night sky brightness.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The impact is extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The Tunguska events pale into ... in our direction. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">We should evaluate impacts in a frame of millennia </span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Verschuur, 96** (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">There is an even more __...__ is worth thinking about.</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Weaponization</span>=== 
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization****Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">As is well understood, the space policies of .... details</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war****Hitchens, 8** – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__Perhaps of__ __....__ alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security and South ..... of force in space.</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Mitchell, et al 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__A buildup ...__ __conflict ever seen.__</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**2NC**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Space weapons will create nuclear preemption incentives before deployment can be completed**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Englehart, 8** – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">D. An Effective ... United States</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**That leaves space unusable which means the plan cant even happen**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Forden, 8** - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">If the short-term military __...__ __thousands of years__.14</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Code of conduct locks in the U.S. advantage, preserves hegemony**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Krepon et al, 7** – President of the Stimson Center (Michael, PRESERVING FREEDOM OF ACTION IN SPACE: REALIZING THE POTENTIAL AND LIMITS OF U.S. SPACEPOWER, http://stimson.org/space/pdf/SpacePower-051007.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__We view a ...__ conduct would serve these purposes.</span>
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Code of Conduct</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The counterplan gets China to sign a code of conduct, solves weaponization</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Hitchens and Chen 08** [Theresa Hitchens, president of the Center for Defense Information and David Chen, executive at Centra Technology, “Forging a Sino-US Grand Bargain in Space” 8/1/08 PHK]</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Considering ... opening of China.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The counterplan demilitarizes space – there’s overwhelming international support for it and it’s different from formal arms control so verification is actually possible.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Krepon 07**[Michael Krepon, founder of the Stimson Center, “Will the Bush Administration Endorse a Space Code of Conduct?” Space News. 3/05/07 [[http://www.stimson.org/summaries/will-the-bush-administration-endorse-a-space-code-of-conduct/]] PHK]</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Support is growing for a specific .... the emerging consensus on this issue.</span>
====<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Covert</span>==== 
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">The CP solves your aff and is functionally different from it—its key to cost reduction and solves faster, and it no links politics.</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;"> Donovan11(Fred, is a writer for the defense industry daily “Small Is Beautiful: US Military Explores Use of Microsatellites”[[http://www.defenseindustrydaily.com/Small-Is-Beautiful-US-Military-Explores-Use-of-Microsatellites-06720/]] Donnie)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;"> At a time when __...__ __battlefield communication__, and take a brief look at the problem of space debris.</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">BLACK BUDGET PROGRAMS SEVER PUBLICS ABILITY TO UNDERSTAND MILITARISMS GRASP ON THE GOVERNMENT</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Mitchell 2000** [Gordon, Specializes in Public Argument, Rhetoric of Science, Critical Theory/Pedagogy, Associate Professor in the Comm Department @ Pitt., “Strategic Deception: Rhetoric, Science, and Politics in Missile Defense Advocacy. East Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 2000 p. 94-95 228-231 pgf 1-LAST</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">With more than a … technologically possible." </span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Lunar Solar Power</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Solves the aff</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Kumar, 6** [ V. Lalith Kumar, HR executive at Quadruple Business Services Pvt Ltd, //Lunar Solar Power Generation,// July 2006 <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://ubiquity.acm.org/article.cfm?id=1149636]]</span>; WBTR]__Two general concepts__ __... reduction of anorthite,__</span>

===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Phoenix**</span>=== 
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Solves the aff and avoids the net benefits**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px; vertical-align: baseline;">**DARPA, 10/16** (Funds the Pheonix program, [[http://www.darpa.mil/Our_Work/TTO/Programs/Phoenix.aspx]]__)__</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px; vertical-align: baseline;">__Communication satellites … developed in the program.__</span>

===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">"The"</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The definite article “the” before United States transmits the image of an objective national boundary – justifying programs of otherization</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;"> **Thrift 2K**(Nigel, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Professor of Geography at the University of Oxford England, “It’s the Little Things”, Geopolitical Traditions: A Century of Geopolitical Thought, Ed. Atkinson and Dodds, p. 383-385)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;"> Let us finally __... flexible__.</span>
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Critiques</span>== 
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Dirty Birdy - No Clarification Required</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The Affirmative’s call for state action fails to achieve its desired goals while directly reinforcing state power, increasing the legitimacy of State violence.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Martin 1990**, associate professor at the University of Wollongong, Australia, Brian, Uprooting War</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">What should ... reinforcing state power. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Calls for state recourse constructs social activism in such a way that condemns mechanisms for protest to comply with stat structures, destroying any hope for powerful social change</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Bookchin, 1998**, Murray, Left Green Perspectives, Number 38</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">In the United ... society (which the system must resist). </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Reliance on state structures for social policy will result in extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Katsiaficas 1997**, Professor at SUNY, The subversion of Politics, George</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Making ecologically ... a necessary form for the survival of the species and all life.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Rejecting the demands of the affirmative opens of new political space for alternatives to state-centered activism.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Walker**, professor at the University of Victoria, One World, Many Worlds: Struggles for a just World Peace, Ed. RBJ, **1988** </span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__I do not ...__ __in a more far-reaching reinvention of political life.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">And non-cooperation challenges the state's legitimacy and is critical to social change.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Bookchin**, Murray, Left Green Perspectives, Number 38, http://lpg.social-ecology.org/, **1998**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__Without in__ __... communist society__ </span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Frontier</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The affirmative’s representations of space development are tied to a rhetoric of American exceptionalism</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**BILLINGS, 7** (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, Societal Impact of Space Flight, p. 483-484)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__The ideas of frontier …__ of a cause, idea, or policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">This justifies endless atrocities in the pursuit of a dramatized conception of the frontier</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**SLOTKIN, 85** (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__This ideology of ….exceptionally violent society__.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Our alternative is to reject the frontier rhetoric of space exploration in favor of a recognition that we are a small part of the global community — this prevents the violent excess of frontier expansion</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**YOUNG 87** (M. Jane, University of New Mexico, "Pity the Indians of Outer Space": Native American Views of the Space Program,” Western Folklore, October)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">In the 1960s … anecdotes from recent Native American oral tradition exemplify this different perspective.7</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Heidegger</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Technological thought produces humans as bare life and causes massive extermination</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Athanasiou, 03** (Athena Athanasiou, Professor of social anthropology at the University of Thessaly, "Technologies of Humanness, Aporias of Biopolitics, and the Cut Body of Humanity," Differences: Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies, 14.1, p.125-162, Muse)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__In Heidegger's__ __...__ , as such, put to death.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">And, it outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Rojcewicz, 06** (Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University, Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Heidegger now l __... y the entire domain of disclosedness and their role in it. Humans would then pose as "masters of the earth," and yet their self-blindness would make them slaves.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The affirmative’s emphasis on quick-fix solutions ignores the root cause of their harms and ensures error replication – temporarily suspending our calculative thought is critical to re-engaging ontology</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Korous, 97** (Copeland winner, all around bad ass, Yale JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__The thought ...__ __of potential energy waiting to be unleashed__.</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">NMD</span>=== 

<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Missile Defense comes of threat construction reifies the American idea of normality, and is described through harsh security rhetoric that de-legitimizes the other</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Bormann ‘6**– (Natalie, PhD International Politics and Philosophy University of Edinburgh, //__National Missile Defence and the Politics of US Identity,__// Manchester University Press, 2006, Pg. 3-4 Sussman)</span>


<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">When proposing to … (e.g., through medical practices).</span>


<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Discursive security practices, specifically in the context of Missile Defense, posit the constructed threat within a prison of the mind, re-constructed to be not a truth, but a projection of the sovereign; this destroys individualized identity</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Bormann ‘6** – (Natalie, PhD International Politics and Philosophy University of Edinburgh, //__National Missile Defence and the Politics of US Identity,__// Manchester University Press, 2006, Pg. 5-6, Sussman)</span>


<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">In Foucault's terms, … (Foucault 1991, 119-120)</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Only by challenging the otherizing rhetoric used to justify NMD can we change the existence of boundaries within the system of international relations; our discourse is a stepping stone to re-creating existence</span>

<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">**Bormann ‘6** – (Natalie, PhD International Politics and Philosophy University of Edinburgh, //__National Missile Defence and the Politics of US Identity,__// Manchester University Press, 2006, Sussman)</span>


<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">What should be clear by … objects, words and practices</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__A. Discourses of danger reproduces an American identity__ – that posits the US as a the defender of global freedom and liberty</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Campbell, 98**- Professor of International Politics University of Newcastle (David, Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity) </span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">The crisis of representation ... illustrates the relevance to the current period of the idea that</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__B. That makes extinction inevitable__</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Willson, 02**- Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University (Brian, “Armageddon or Quantum Leap?U.S. Imperialism and Human Consciousness from an Evolutionary Perspective”, [[http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html]])</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Awaiting the impending ... __evolutionary branch__</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">__C. Framework__ – threat construction is a communicative action that requires discursive justification – there is an ethical responsibility to justify securitization in political discussion. The role of the ballot is to interrogate methodologies – to weigh their case the Aff has to legitimize securitization first</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">**Williams, 03** [Michael – IR Prof @ University of Ottawa, “Words, Images, Enemies: Securitization and International Politics,” International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 4 (Dec., 2003), pp. 511-53, Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association, JSTOR] [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3693634]]</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">A second major ... by __disputing the threat__, or both.36</span>
==<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Intel</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Note: Until Glenbrooks, Jon was the 2N - Alex has been the 2N ever since... notice the lack of K's in the 2NR since.... except Blake (caught K hack fever)</span>**</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Wake Forest</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 1 vs Johns Creek (Neolib/Time KAff)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Lacan K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Chomsky K - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Framework - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 3 vs McDowell NS (SPS)1NC:</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">LSP CP - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Microwaves DA - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 6 vs American History BJ (ORS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Plan Text Flaw</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Astropolitics</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Vagueness - 2NR</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Niles West (Jon 2N with a Novice)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 2 vs Glenbrook North HM (Weapons)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Code of Conduct</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Dirty Birdy - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 4 vs Lane Tech BD (SSA)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mesosphere - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">ESA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SKFTA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 6 vs Glenbrook South CK (EOS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mesosphere - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">"The Pic"</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Georgetown</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 2 vs Perry LM (NASA Fem)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">State Binaries DA (Lacanian Spin) - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Dirty Birdy - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 4 vs Centennial MK (DSCOVR)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Increase</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">SKFTA DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">ESA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China Relations DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security K - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 5 vs Glenbrook North SK (Debris)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Aerogel</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Security K - 2NR</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Iowa Caucus</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;"> Round 2 vs Minneapolis South BO (Asteroids)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">EOS T/O DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Consult Japan</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Heidegger K (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Dedev</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 4 vs Rosemount BS (SSA)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mez (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Maps K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Consult Japan</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 6 vs Millard West LE</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Warming CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Eco-Security K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Mesosphere (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Warming Good</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">UMich</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 2 vs Groves GG (Asteroids Ethics)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">1-Off Science Educational K (2NR) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 3 vs Westminster LS (Asteroids)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Consult Japan</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Small Asteroids Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 5 vs Pinecrest LM (ORS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Hardening PIC (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">China Relations DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Commercialization DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 7 vs Ignatius Prep CK (SPS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Spending DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Russia DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Lasers CP (2NR)</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Glenbrooks JV (Reigning Champions) (First Switch Tournament)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 2 vs MBA BT (SPS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">LSP CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">India Launches DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Warming Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 4 vs Maine East HG (ORS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Hardening PIC</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Commercialization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">F-35 Trade-Off DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 5 vs Bishop Guertin ZC (Asteroids)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">China Relations DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Airforce DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Consult Japan</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Colonization</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Big Asteroids Good</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Small Asteroids Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Quarters vs Berkeley Prep DD (AEHS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">TSATS CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Uzbek Weapons DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">China Relations DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Russia DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Prolif DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Security K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Semifinals vs UC Lab ZY (SMD)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Deploy</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Airforce DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Uzbek DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">NMD K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Covert Ops CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Impact Turned All Advantages (Perception Turns) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Finals vs Niles West NL (SPS Prez Powers)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Consult CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">LSP CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Supercomittee DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Security K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Japan Slots DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Prez Powers Bad</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Uzbek DA</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Ohio Valley</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 1 vs Whitney Young NR (SSA)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Air Force DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Covert CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Russia DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Frontier K - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Payroll Tax Cuts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 3 vs Resovoir RS (DSCOVR)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Frontier K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">T-Increase</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">China DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Payroll Tax Cuts - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Phoenix CP - 2NR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Round 5 vs Lakeland PS (SPS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Frontier K - 2NR</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">FSE CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">GEO DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Payroll Tax Cuts</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">Air Force DA</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Blake</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 1 vs Greenhill NK (Space Guard)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Extra T</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Payroll DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Airforce DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Stratcom CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Frontier K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 3 vs GBS CK (EOS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Payroll</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Japan Slots DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Phoenix CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Frontier K (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 6 vs HoFlo GS (Dragnets)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Frontier K (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Weaponization DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Uzbek Weapons DA</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Micro-Sats CP</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Lane Tech (Jon was 2N with a Novice)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 2 vs Lane Tech KJ (SSA)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Human (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Phoenix CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Payroll DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 4 vs Northside RT (EOS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Payroll DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Heidegger K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Phoenix CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Iran Prolif Good</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Terrorism Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 5 vs Northside SW (EOS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">T-Mesosphere</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Payroll DA (2NR)</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Phoenix CP (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Quarters vs Whitney Young TV (SPS)</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Dadaism K</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">LSP CP</span>
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">India Launches DA</span>
===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Evanston</span>=== 
<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Lost My Flows - 2NR's were all the Phoenix CP and Politics DA (Against debris and EOS) except for one round where the other team dropped a floating PIK on the Security K</span>


===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">California Berkeley (Alex was with a Novice)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 1 vs Rando Team (Mars Colonization)</span>**</span>
Orbital Colonies CP (2NR)
Politics DA (Housing)
Security K

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 3 vs Rando Team #2 (God AFF.....? I don't even know)</span>**</span>

Lacan K
Dada K
METI CP (2NR)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 6 vs Rando Team #3 (Light Fixtures)</span>**</span>
American Exceptionalism K
Consult the Japanese (2NR)
China Do the Plan
Politics
T-Mez

===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Homewood Flossmoor</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 1 vs Maine East (Global Commons)</span>**</span>
Moon Treaty CP (2NR)
METI CP
Schmitt K
Case Turns (2NR)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 3 vs GBS KM (EOS)</span>**</span>
Data Fascism K (2NR)
Phoenix CP
Politics (Cyber Security)
Science Diplomacy CP
T-Human

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 5 vs Some team that ran LSP</span>**</span>
Multi-Plank Advantage CP (2NR)
Silver DA (2NR)
Warming Good (2NR)
Security K
Weaponization Bad (On Case)

===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">NFL Districs</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 2 vs Niles North (SPS)</span>**</span>

LSP CP
DeDev
Security K (2NR)
T-Human
Space Weaponization DA

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 3 vs GBS OT (RAMOS)</span>**</span>

T-Human (2NR)
Consult the Russians
China Cyber Security DA
Security K

===<span style="color: #2b2749; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">JV State</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 2 vs Northside (ISS)</span>**</span>
Plan Flaw
Consult the Japanese (2NR)
Advantage CPs
Launches DA

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #2b2749; font-size: 12px;">Round 4 vs GBN BH (ASATs)</span>**</span>
T-Human
Redline+Deter Iran CP (2NR)
China Cyber Security DA
GBL CP
Launches DA
Bomber DA (2NR)


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Security K</span>