=Contact= 
Aff: [[mailto:amresar@mcdonogh.org|amresar@mcdonogh.org]]
Neg: [[mailto:danielh313@gmail.com|danielh313@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
=Harvard 1AC= 
Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth

White privilege is the unnamed political system that is the __modern world__ – we are all involved in a contractual relation to the state, a racial contract that lies out the __foundation__ of sociopolitical relations –We must aggressively __engage__ a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
White Supremacy is the...<span class="underline"> political lingua franca of our times.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span>Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; //“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge//
//to White America//; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed with ... this power at work.

The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap__the_american__allergy__to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader__
__NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae ...habitat that sustains us."__

__Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)__
__They’re the conservative white men ...<span class="underline"> fan the flames</span>.__
__This has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding__ crucial __earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests__
__Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick 8/31</span>/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span> [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]__
__<span class="underline">By pretending that the science is bad</span>...trying to discredit the science.__

__**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Satellites provide data necessary to mitigating and adapting to global climate change – new capabilities would have allowed us the necessary coordination</span>**__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lewis et al ’10 [</span>James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Climate change will have pervasive ...<span class="underline"> capability shortfall is eliminated.</span></span>
__**<span style="font-size: 16px;">This accurate and actionable data is key to employ adaptation strategies. </span>**__
__<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Foster et al., 9</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“Ask the Climate Question: Adapting to Climate Change Impacts in Urban Region” June 2009 Ashley Lowe Josh Foster Steve Winkelman. Ashley Lowe has worked with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. She holds a B.A. in an interdisciplinary environmental program and a B.A. in Archaeology, both from the University of Virginia, and an M.S. in Environmental Policy from the University of Michigan. Josh Foster has over 14 years of experience working on climate adaptation, including 13 at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Science Program Office as a manager for climate research applications and services. Has worked at NOAA's National Climate Services, National Integrated Drought Information System (NIDIS), Regional Integrated Climate Sciences and Assessments (RISA) Program, the International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI), the Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the US Global Change Research Program, the United Nations Development Program, the White House Office on Environmental Policy, and the White House Subcommittee on Water Availability and Quality (SWAQ). Josh also holds Masters in International Relations and in Environmental Management from Yale University, and a B.A. in International Relations and Environmental Policy, Minor in Latin American Studies, from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Steve Winkleman managed ICF’s Climate Wise industrial energy efficiency program for the US EPA. Steve is a member of the National Academy of Sciences’ Sustainable Transport Committee. He holds a BS in Physics from theUniversityofMichiganand an MA in Public Policy from theUniversityofMinnesota. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.ccap.org/docs/resources/674/Urban_Climate_Adaptation-FINAL_CCAP%206-9-09.pdf]]Understanding Your Specific Adaptation Needs Providing Actionable Science</span>__
Accurate and relevant information is the...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> surface water impacts. </span>__

__**The effects of anthropogenic climate change are disproportionately borne by minorities, but inaction pursues because these needs are ignored – effective adaptation strategies must be deployed.**__
__<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Foster et al., 9</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“Ask the Climate Question: Adapting to Climate Change Impacts in Urban Region” June 2009 Ashley Lowe Josh Foster Steve Winkelman. Ashley Lowe has worked with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. She holds a B.A. in an interdisciplinary environmental program and a B.A. in Archaeology, both from the University of Virginia, and an M.S. in Environmental Policy from the University of Michigan. Josh Foster has over 14 years of experience working on climate adaptation, including 13 at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Climate Science Program Office as a manager for climate research applications and services. Has worked at NOAA's National Climate Services, National Integrated Drought Information System (NIDIS), Regional Integrated Climate Sciences and Assessments (RISA) Program, the International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI), the Nobel Prize winning Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the US Global Change Research Program, the United Nations Development Program, the White House Office on Environmental Policy, and the White House Subcommittee on Water Availability and Quality (SWAQ). Josh also holds Masters in International Relations and in Environmental Management from Yale University, and a B.A. in International Relations and Environmental Policy, Minor in Latin American Studies, from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Steve Winkleman managed ICF’s Climate Wise industrial energy efficiency program for the US EPA. Steve is a member of the National Academy of Sciences’ Sustainable Transport Committee. He holds a BS in Physics from theUniversityofMichiganand an MA in Public Policy from theUniversityofMinnesota. </span>[[http://www.ccap.org/docs/resources/674/Urban_Climate_Adaptation-FINAL_CCAP%206-9-09.pdf|**http://www.ccap.org/docs/resources/674/Urban_Climate_Adaptation-FINAL_CCAP%206-9-09.pdf**]]__
<span style="color: #222222;">The populations most vulnerable ... during future intense heat events.</span>


__The impact strikes at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an__ obligation __to these populations__
__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">M</span>inority <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">R</span>ights <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">G</span>roups <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I</span>nternational April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span> [[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]__
__[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Climate change is just beginning.. .any other nation.</span>
__The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions__
__Clive <span style="font-size: 16px;">Hamilton</span> November, 16th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]]</span> [Professor of Public Ethics at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre_for_Applied_Philosophy_and_Public_Ethics|Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics]]</span> (CAPPE)<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Hamilton#cite_note-CappeBio-0|[1]]]</span> and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Sturt_University|Charles Sturt University]]</span>.<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Hamilton#cite_note-1|[2]]]</span> He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Australia_Institute|The Australia Institute]]</span>. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctorate|Doctorate]]</span> at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institute_of_Development_Studies|Institute of Development Studies]]</span> at the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Sussex|University of Sussex]]</span>. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|Yale University]]</span>. Professor at Oxford.]__
__<span class="underline">Climate sceptics resent ...</span> nothing they will die.__

__These systematic harms of structural violence must come__ before __one shot calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)</span>__
__<span class="underline">We live</span>, equally .. decade, throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]__
__Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>__
__The struggle against racism ...the stakes are irresistible.__

__As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Alyssa and I advocate the following:__
__Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its Earth Observation capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.__

__Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">The role of the ballot is that of a critical intellectual and you should view the debate through a critical race theory lens – white privilege is able to operate via invisibility in political discussions </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997 </span>__
__Charles-; The Racial Contract__

__Nationally, within these racial polities,...<span class="underline"> transcontinental and intracontinental racial exploitation.</span>__
__The current struggle against global warming represents the invisibility of race at its finest – the environmental movement has__ exemplified __modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive__
__Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]]</span> [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]__
__But <span class="underline">as troubling as colorblindnes....</span> weaken the fight for survival.__

__Dialogue and communication matters in this context – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline">The relationship between the climate...</span> delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.</span>
__This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its scientific implications__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127 Mkoo)__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The emerging climate-justice movement shifts ... rights, and social justice.</span>
__Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]__
__[*297] Fear of eroding the hierarchies ... capitalist ruling class." <span style="color: #0000ff;">n52</span>__

__It’s not a question of solvency, but one of__ exposition __– we must__ constantly__ discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]</span>]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan... that out there, absolutely.
=Big Lex - Climate Denial Aff= 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract3

Nationally, within these racial polities, ..... intracontinental racial exploitation.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span> Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge
to White America; p.31-33
Racism can be expressed ...see this power at work.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special cAorrespondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, [[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap]]the_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader
NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae and prehistoric turquoise beads, ...the habitat that sustains us."

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]])
They’re the conservative ... to fan the flames.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding crucial earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests</span>
Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick</span> 8/31/<span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]] [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]
By pretending that the science .... discredit the science.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an obligation to these populations</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Minority Rights Groups International April 2008</span> [[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]
[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]
Climate change is just beginning to be ....than any other nation.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide – climate deniers risk the lives of hundreds of millions</span>
Clive <span style="font-size: 16px;">Hamilton</span> November, 16th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust [[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]] [Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE)[1] and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University.[2] He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the The Australia Institute. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University. Professor at Oxford.]
Climate sceptics resent being .... nothing they will die.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])
We live, equally immersed,... every decade, throughout the world. [Gilligan, p. 196]

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span>
Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism .... the stakes are irresistible.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">As a stance against institutional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Alyssa and I advocate the following: </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The current struggle against global warming represents the invisibility of race at its finest – the environmental movement has exemplified modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive</span>
Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege [[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]] [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But as troubling as colorblindness... the fight for survival.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">MANDELL</span> Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]
[*297] Fear of eroding the hierarchies... of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." n52

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16)
The relationship between the climate problem ... beyond message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127)
The emerging climate-justice movement shifts .... ethics, human rights, and social justice.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">A racialized discussion of key, traditional technical strategies of risk calculus are embedded within justifications of white supremacy and fail to mobilize action</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130)
Risk communication research over ... learned from both

<span style="font-size: 16px;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of exposition – we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] [[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan ... that out there, absolutely.
= = 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">MDA Aff - MBA </span>= 
Contention 1 is Grand Strategy 2.0

<span class="cite">US maritime strategy is collapsing now from budget cuts and a weaker fleet – the impact is global instability – US naval power is the proximate check on global conflict escalation</span>
<span class="cite">Whiteneck and Clark, ’11</span> [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02|Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296]]</span>, SM]

In light of global economic and strategic realities…<span class="underline"> it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

MDA cements global cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – that allows the US to cooperatively address maritime security
<span class="cite">Truver, ’11</span> [Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11]
A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED, TOO <span class="underline">From the US perspective… transnational threats and securing peaceful use of the maritime commons.</span>”
||   ||   ||   ||


Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts
<span class="underline">Moore 10 [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]]]</span>
Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant foundational strategy document. …<span class="underline"> these crucial decisions being made by others.</span>

<span class="cite">Increased economic pressures and growing deficits mean US global retrenchment is inevitable</span>
<span class="cite">Mandelbaum, ’10</span> [Michael Mandelbaum is the Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, PhD from Harvard Foreign Affairs. May/June 2010, “Overpowered?”, SM]
Whatever the quality of the analysis underlying it, however, Preble's vision of a more modest U.S. foreign policy, which Matlock and Gallarotti share, is destined to be adopted. <span class="underline">The United States will do less</span>, perhaps much less, <span class="underline">beyond its borders in the next two decades than it has in the last two</span>. This <span class="underline">retrenchment …</span> consequences of the United States' having too little of it.

US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoiding the flaws of offshore balancing by maintaining US influence
<span class="cite">Hoffman, ’08</span> [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]

<span class="underline">Our maritime forces have to be designed to support an overall … bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all</span>.”

Disengagement causes great power nuclear conflict - security breakdowns.
<span class="cite">Monteiro 2012 </span>
Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf]]</span>
In sum, <span class="underline">disengagement opens the door to regional competition… as well as in Europe and the Middle East</span>.

Contention 2 is Sea Security

Space based MDA capabilities key to check terror on the sea
Allan, 11.
John W, Vice President, Sales & Marketing at exactEarth Ltd (Current), <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">exactEarth have a constellation of satellites that monitor and track vessels around the world using AIS. Its game changing technology for both the Operational Maritime and Defence and Intelligence communities.</span> “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security”, 3/23, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geospatialworld.net/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=21883]]</span>, Accessed 11/23/11, Scott
Few security commentators would dispute <span class="underline">the geospatial …</span> quantum leap forward in maritime surveillance capability.

Space is the foundation of adequate anti-terror MDA capabilities and intelligence is key
<span class="cite">Singh 10</span> (Jaswinder, Master of Science in Defense Analysis, Indian Navy Captain, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/25 Mkoo)
In today’s information age, where information travels …<span class="underline"> interdict small boat heading for terror attacks in these waters. </span>

Maritime terrorism highly likely – acquisition is feasible and they’ll attack ports
<span class="cite">Konkel 05</span> (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A fundamental factor contributing to the threat of a container-based …</span> years to improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2

Collapses the economy – global embargo
Flynn, 3. (Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]]</span> Mkoo)
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman …<span class="underline">as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade. </span>

Global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Harris and Burrows ‘9</span> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics … both <span class="underline">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

Independently, retaliation from a terrorist attack leads to nuclear war
<span class="cite">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear …<span class="underline">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint. </span>

Terrorists will attack the Strait of Malacca now, impact is global oil shocks, trade collapse, Japan, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and US economic collapse
<span class="cite">Luft and Korin 4</span> (Gal, Exec Dir, Institute for Analysis of Global Security and Anne, Dir, Policy and Strategic Planning, IAGS, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec, Lexis, [[http://www.jmhinternational.com/news/news/selectednews/files/2004/20041201_20041101_ForeignAffairs_TerrorismGoesToSea.pdf]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">Pirates and Islamist terrorist groups have long operated … but that of the United States as well.</span>

South Korean economic decline causes global nuclear war
<span class="cite">Richardson 06</span> (Corey, Asia Times writer, “South Korea Must Choose Sides,” 9/9/06 [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]] Mkoo)
<span class="underline">A Korea faced with an economic dilemma … Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. </span>

Japanese economic decline causes hyper-nationalism and nuclear war with China
<span class="cite">Elliott 02</span> (Larry, The Guardian writer, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits Typhoon,” 2/11/02 [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/money/2002/feb/11/business.globalrecession]] Mkoo)
Even so, <span class="underline">the … bigger</span> (and nuclear) <span class="underline">neighbour.</span>


Plan
The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


Contention 3 is Solvency
MDA satellites are critical to allow for global awareness – promotes global cooperation
<span class="cite">Earles, 10</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
The potential for international collaboration … system characteristics will be developed in this and the subsequent articles in this series.


Satellites AIS systems solve technical problems with MSSIS now – international collaborative effort for MDA that exists now.
<span class="cite">Earles, 10.</span>
Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 11/8/11
<span class="underline">The Maritime Safety and Security Information …</span>, however, as seen in Figure 2.
= = 
=[[#DSCOVR Aff]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">DSCOVR Aff</span>= 

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Bronx - DSCOVR</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Plan: The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.</span>**

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">**Contention One is Solar Storms**</span>__
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Initially note --- multiple solar flares are coming in the status quo – the Sun is reaching its most active phase</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Moskowitz 8/11</span>** [Clara, senior writer for space.com, 8/11/2011, “Solar storms building towards peak in 2013 NASA predicts,”<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/12586-solar-storms-intensity-2013-peak-nasa.html]]</span>]
Solar flares like the huge one that erupted on the sun ……. researchers said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The magnitude of these will be huge – massive solar storms make a global disaster inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Derbyshire 11</span>** [David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]]</span>]
The world is overdue a ferocious 'space storm' that could knock out communications satellites, ground aircraft and trigger blackouts - causing hundreds of billions of pounds of damage, scientists say. Astronomers today warned that mankind is now more vulnerable to a major solar storm than at any time in ….. the U.S. space agency said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The failure of Advanced Composition Explorer or ACE is creating a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Lautenbacher 10</span>** [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]]</span>]
In addition to events such as the Haitian earthquake and global warming, …. DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">CARV 5/18</span>** [Concept Activity Research Vault, 5/18/2011 develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]</span>]
The Advanced Composition Explorer….. its NASA calculated life expectance.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">And, early warning is critical to prevent the storms worst impacts, and ACE is our best satellite now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Phillips 10</span>** [Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]</span>]
Earth and space are ….. very seriously indeed."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Clark 11</span>** [Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]</span>]
From that location, Earth science sensors on DSCOVR would have a constant view of the day side of the planet. But the L1 point is more commonly used by solar science missions, and it's an ideal location for a spacecraft to sniff out geomagnetic storms before they reach Earth. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would manage the DSCOVR mission as ….. work on the project in 2001.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">A solar storm would destroy the economy in two ways</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">A. Blackouts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Butt 10</span>** [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
For the reasons outlined …..and lengthy restoration times, and chronic shortages for multiple years are possible [25].

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">They are key to the economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Bryan 03</span>** Jay, The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec), August 19, SECTION: Business; Opinion on the Blackout; Pg. B1, HEADLINE: Power grids vital in information age: "Just a few days could theoretically take economic growth ... right down to zero" l/n
This worsened ….. indispensable in an information-age economy.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">B. It destroys satellites</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">OECD 11’</span>** [OECD/ IFP Future project on “Future Global Shocks”, January 14th 2011, “Geomagnetic Storms”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/25/46891645.pdf]]</span>]
One of the consequences with ……significant replacement challenge.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Satellite malfunctions collapse the global economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>** – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span>.
Commercially, the economy of the …….Chevron gas stations without pay-at-the-pump capability.”9

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span>** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may …..debate and deserves more attention.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">__Contention Two is Operational Data__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Lack of effective climate data is creating a gap in military response capabilities – decapitates effective interventionism to check the impacts of climate change</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]</span>]
Climate change will likely exacerbate ….. less well prepared to meet future challenges.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>** [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]</span>]
Given the proliferation of new tools …..secu­rity professionals need to ask.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Climate change causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Tussing 2008</span>** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]</span>]
The impetus behind these efforts on the ….. are taking shape in every theater.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Tussing 2008</span>** [Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]</span>]
In emulation of the American effort….. solely in the camp of the civil authorities.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Smith 2007</span>** [Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]]</span>]
Deployment …. engage military forces in a reactive manner.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Deutsch ’02</span>** [Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span>]
The Rabid Tiger …… feel compelled to follow their client states.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">No offense – warming is inevitable status quo CO2 emissions and feedbacks guarantee it</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span>** (Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]]</span>)
Over the 20th century, …. carbon dioxide reached.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">DSCOVR solves its critical to calibrate climate models</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Williams 2008</span>** [Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]]</span>]
Obama’s first presidential pardon should be to free a political prisoner, held without trial, rhyme nor reason, in solitary confinement in an air conditioned prison box somewhere outside Washington, DC. The ….. with giving environmentalism a great boost in the 1970s.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">That solves any gaps in status quo capabilities – DSCOVR’s position makes it key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002</span>** [Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]]</span>]
The L1 and L2 Lagrange points ….. gaps left by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The plan allows for a global intergrated observational system</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Valero 2007</span>**** [Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]</span>]
The L-1 and L-2 Earth-……. LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Key Congress people will block the repeal of Jackson Vanik – human rights</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 3/22 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(WASHINGTON, March 22 (RIA Novosti) </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.ria.ru/world/20120322/172320673.html|Congresswoman Wary of Jackson-Vanik Repeal]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Associated Press. http://en.ria.ru/world/20120322/172320673.html</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**</span>
<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">The head of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in </span>the U.S. Congress has questioned a move to repealthe<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> Cold War-era </span>Jackson-Vanik amendment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and ease trade with Russia, </span>citing human rights violations<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> in the country.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “That amendment has long been a symbol of U.S. commitment to human rights and democracy in Russia," Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen said. "</span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">Removing Russia from its provisions would be interpreted in Moscow and elsewhere as a seal of approval from the U.S. Congress, even as the human rights situation in Russia continues to deteriorate,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” Ros-Lehtinen said at a committee hearing titled Russia 2012: Increased Repression, Rampant Corruption, Assisting Rogue Regimes The amendment, passed in 1974, barred favorable trade relations with the Soviet Union because it wouldn’t let Jewish citizens emigrate. Annual waivers have been allowed and widely used since 1993, two years after the communist government collapsed “I hope the </span>Congress will not grant one more concession to Russia without first holding Moscow accountable for actions that run contrary to U.S. national security interests<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> and to such foreign policy priorities as the promotion of human rights and democracy,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican. Russia is now poised to join the World Trade Organization in May or June. The U.S. risks losing out on increased exports to Russia once the country formally joins the organization because of Jackson-Vanik. The U.S. administration is pressing Congress to throw out the Cold War-era amendment on behalf of U.S. farmers and manufacturers. The Administration is now seeking to give Russia permanent normal trade relations, which requires lifting the Jackson-Vanik restrictions. </span>Her opinion was backed by U.S experts present at the meeting<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> and Hermitage Capital Management CEO William Browder. “The regime continues to monopolize power, with corruption entrenched throughout the entire government structure and reaching far into the economy and the general society</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…But there are also hopeful signs that the Russian people have begun to stand up to the regime and demand their basic rights. The massive demonstrations that followed last December’s parliamentary elections, which were characterized by open fraud, have demonstrated that the people are losing their fear and are demanding fundamental political change,” Ros-Lehtinen said.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bipartisan opposition against the repeal of Jackson Vanik – it won’t pass anytime soon </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wall Street Journal 3/20 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(March 20, 2012. “After Jackson-Vanik.” The Wall Street Journal. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304459804577285330434798916.html?mod=googlenews_wsj}</span>
This position is no longer politically tenable. The Senate looks unlikely to retire Jackson-Vanik<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without adopting the Magnitsky bill. On Friday, </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">Senator </span>Cardin, Republicans<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> John </span>McCain and<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> Roger </span>Wicker and independent<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> Joe </span>Lieberman made this<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> quid pro quo </span>explicit<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. Cardin's participation is noteworthy coming from a loyal Democrat. </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">So is the promise by Mr. McCain to support Jackson-Vanik repeal as long as the Magnitsky law gets thrown into the bargain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Mr. </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">McCain may bring along Republicans who currently want to keep Jackson-Vanik, which </span>the Administration still lacks votes to repeal<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The White House reluctance to sanction Russian human-rights abusers speaks to a bigger clash over foreign policy visions. Seeing itself as an heir to the "realist" school, the Obama Administration extends a hand to dictators and plays down talk of democracy and human rights. In its view, a waning global power like America can't afford to annoy authoritarian regimes this way. But </span>an American voice on behalf of the powerless is<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> part of a long, </span>bipartisan<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> tradition. We're glad some Senators think it's worth preserving</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
====SSA Aff==== 



THUS THE PLAN—

The United States federal government should develop and launch the distributed real-time awareness global network in space in constellation format beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Contention One is Inherency</span>__**



Current Space Situational Awareness acquisition efforts fail

GAO ’11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office (Cristina T Chaplain, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite recent investments… risks they face. </span>



This is due to ground sensor failure, high resolution data, and inability to see small objects

Ziegler ’07 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Potential Threat </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and a host of others. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Weapons:</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of SSA means there’s a huge misinformation barrier now – that leads the U.S. to rapidly weaponize space because policy makers will assume the __worst__ about other countries’ space intentions </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon ‘4 </span>**[Avoiding the Weaponization of Space. Michael Krepon. This essay appeared as “Weapons in the Heavens: A Radical and Reckless Option” in Arms Control Today, November 2004. LexisNexis. Alyssa]



<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">Avoiding the </span>… __of Space____.__ 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike china—that escalates</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis, Carnegie associate, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, the growing …</span> __and further misperception.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">96 </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The impact is extinction </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span>**(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)



The Doomsday … __above everything else__.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Still, Obama is pushing for an international Code of Conduct, but it won’t be verifiable </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon ’11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[A Case Study in Policy Entrepreneurship. Michael Krepon[[http://www.stimson.org/.../A_Case_Study_in_Policy_Entrepreneurship.pdf.%20September%202011|www.stimson.org/.../A_Case_Study_in_Policy_Entrepreneurship.pdf. September 2011]].]</span>



<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">After the ….</span> legally- binding instruments



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only a verifiable arms control agreement can solve space weaponization </span>** 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wright, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - co-director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists (David, Boston Globe, “Protecting our future in space”, 10/3, </span>[[http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/10/03/protecting_our_future_in_space/|__http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/10/03/protecting_our_future_in_space/__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, in looking forward….</span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> security on Earth.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The impact is global nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell, et al 1</span><span style="color: #222222;"> -</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,[[@http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>







__A buildup … conflict ever seen.__



Additionally, US space weaponization would spur other countries to weaponize and would devastate broader hegemonic legitimacy

<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**Brown, ‘09**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Trevor Brown has a BA, Indiana University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal, Spring 2009, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/121733/.../Section+11.pdf]</span>



Russia and China <span class="underline">… such protection.</span>



Independently, hegemony shorn of legitimacy causes backlash, terrorism, mass proliferation, and results in isolationism – causes extinction

Ikenberry ‘02

G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition – Foreign Affairs, lexis



<span class="underline">Pitfalls accompany … of their power.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The plan solves - information sharing and Situational Awareness is key to coalition building – that means global cooperation and US legitimacy</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Owens and Nye 1996</span><span style="background-color: white;"> (William A. and Joseph S., America’s Information Age, Foreign Affairs Vol. 75 Issue 2, p20-36 Joe Nye is a professor at Harvard)</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The core of these capabilities….</span> U.S. military superiority. 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SSA </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">is the __only__ way to achieve verification for effective treaties </span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Baines and Cote 2009</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">Phillip </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security</span>[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf|__http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.</span>



Verification<span class="IntenseEmphasis1"> and governance …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> space security treaty.40</span>



Contention 3 is Cohesion:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1is NATO</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Improving SSA is key to NATO cooperation over SSA</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ISAB 7 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Study on Space Policy: Report of the International Security Advisory Board. . Washington, D.C.: U.S. State Department, April 27, 2007]</span>

Requirements to improve … and other nations.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This cooperation is key to make NATO cohesive – that makes its deterrence __effective__</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BASIC 10</span> –** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">British American Security Information Council </span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(British American Security Information Council, January 2010, http://www.basicint.org/pubs/BASIC-MindtheGapNATOnuclear.pdf, 6/29/10)</span>



__Assurance exists ….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> mistake to ignore this.</span>



<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**The impact is great power wars** </span>

<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**Mitropolitski 4**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">—former syndicated columnist with the Bulgarian News Agency. MA, pol sci, McGill. BA, pol sci and history (Simeon, NATO: Why it exists? Why it's enlarging?, http://www.ired.com/news/mkt/nato-04.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The political </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis1">critics </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…. Western periphery toward its core.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Space Coop</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Independently, increased SSA policies are key to space cooperation</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Chief of Staff of the US Air Force. The senior uniformed Air Force officer responsible for the organization, training and equipping of 680,000 active-duty, Guard, Reserve and civilian forces serving in the United States and overseas. [Norty Schwartz, “Space, Cyberspace, and National Security,” Thursday, 18 February 2010, pg. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100219-034.pdf/edlee|http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100219-034.pdf//edlee]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

__To address__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> these </span>__challenges, **….**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> degraded localized environment. </span>



<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**Space cooperation solves extinction** </span>

<span class="IntenseEmphasis1">**Hays 10**</span>(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter, PhD, Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University, senior policy analyst supporting the plans and programs division of the National Security Space Office, retired Lieutenant Colonel, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)</span>

<span class="underline">Other </span>impediments to<span class="underline"> ….</span> odds for survival.













Contention 4 is Solvency:



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Femtosat sensing nodes provide quick images and immediate information sharing</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ziegler ’07</span>** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former Air Force Space Command …. will help frame the approach. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, they maintain continual cognizance – that’s key to solve</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ziegler ’07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the decades since … space capabilities. </span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Data integration’s key to an accurate attribution architecture </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turnbull ’08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Maj, USAF, Lead, Simulation Engineering, Plans and Integration, Joint Functional Component Command for Global Strike, US Strategic Command, Offutt AFB (Wallace ‘Rhett’, “Moving Beyond SSA: An Attribution Architecture for Space Control,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf, RBW)</span>



__A critical part of …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the right direction.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SSA key to effective decision making in space</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berkowitz ’07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Former Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Space Policy (Marc J, “Protecting America’s Freedom of Action in Space,” March, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 3, Num. 2, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070322-103.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, RBW)</span>



__Policy-makers will …. operational responses__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>











=[[#Negative]]Negative= 
=== === 
===[[#Negative--India Politics DA]]India Politics DA=== 
**India’s Congress party will win the February elections in Uttar Pradesh now**
**Rediff, 1-4-2012**
(“Inhouse survey puts Congress-RLD ahead, BJP close 2nd"
[[http://www.rediff.com/news/slide-show/slide-show-1-congress-will-emerge-as-the-winner-in-up-polls-says-survey/20120104.htm]])

The combine of … says the survey.

**ndia is outcompeting the US now**
**Rediff Business, 1-11-2010**
(“India's aerospace industry to boost economy” [[http://business.rediff.com/column/2010/jan/11/guest-india-aerospace-industry-to-boost-economy.htm]])
The aerospace industry …absorb massive investments.

**If the US out-competes India, it will spark anti-Americanism**
**Wimbush, 2006**
(S. Enders, Sr VP of Hudson Institute, “STRATEGIC INDIA”, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/StrategicIndia-Final-Wimbush.pdf]])
Under this scenario… worsen U.S.-Indian ties.

**Opposition parties will seize the plan to drum up anti-Americanism and garner votes with Indian Muslims**
**Shenoy 2008**
(T. V. R., Researcher, Journalist-India First Foundation, “Congress has Left in debt trap” [[http://www.rediff.com/cms/print.jsp?docpath=/news/2008/mar/18flip.htm]])
The Left Front …displease at this moment.

**Indian Muslims key to the Uttar Pradesh elections**
**Wall Street Journal 1-4-2012**
(Note: the abbreviation UP in this evidence refers to Uttar Pradesh, “Politics Journal: Parties Vie for Upper Hand in Uttar Pradesh”
[[http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2012/01/04/politics-journal-parties-vie-for-upper-hand-in-uttar-pradesh/]])
Guess who the … than 50 seats on its own.

**Congress Party victory in the Uttar Pradesh election is key to Kashmir peace**
**Kashmir Times, 12-9-2011 (LexisNexis)**
UPA government's preoccupation … of its future leadership.

**The Kashmir conflict will escalate to nuclear war and would draw in the US and China**
**Margolis, 2010**
(Eric, International Author and Policy Analyst for New York Time and International Herald Tribune, “Kashmir: Three Minutes From Nuclear War”,
[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/margolis/margolis206.html]])
In my first book… the entire globe.

=== === 

=== === 

===[[#Negative--Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA</span>=== 
====[[#Negative--Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA-1NC Shell]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Fiscal Framework Moody's Credit Spending DA-1NC Shell]]1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The Debt Deal fiscal framework will succeed now and create a compromise of spending cuts– multiple structural factors guarantee it</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span>** [9/8/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” ,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction—a.k.a. the “super committee”—…… So those are some of my optimistic thoughts on the super committee.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The plan breaks that framework – creates huge spending that strains the deficit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Hsu 9</span>**[Feng, Ph.D. and Senior Fellow – Aerospace Technology Working Group, and Ken Cox, Ph.D. and Founder & Director – Aerospace Technology Working Group, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision”, 2-20,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702]]</span>]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">There arelimited financial resources from the U.S. government, which is now struggling with unprecedented high budget deficit and</span> is confronted with extremely <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">costly ongoing wars</span>. So <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">it is</span> nearly <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">irresponsible to impose on the nation</span> and its people <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">an Apollo-like, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">huge spending</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> lunar-based space exploration program</span>. There is neither significant (or short-term) science value nor space exploration and operation value in revisiting an earth-orbit destination that was explored by mankind four decades ago. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Given today's</span> decimated American<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">economic condition</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">we must adapt a</span> concurrent and comprehensive <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">space exploration</span> and space development <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">strategy that is</span> not only<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">affordable</span> but can be mutually supported.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The signal of a fiscal discipline framework has appeased Moody’s but they are watching to whether or not it will succeed – failure to curtail spending and maintain status quo plans for cuts triggers a downgrade</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Panchuk, ‘8-3</span>** [8-3-11, Kerri Panchuk, “Moody's affirms US triple-A rating, but risks remain”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.housingwire.com/2011/08/03/moodys-affirms-us-triple-a-rating-but-risks-remain]]</span>, SM]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Moody's</span> Investors Service (<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=MCO|MCO]]</span>: 27.04 -3.19%) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">confirmed the U.S. government's triple-A bond rating …… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">this could affect the rating negatively</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">," Moody's said.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Further downgrades risks a spiral in interest rates that collapses investor confidence</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">**Goldwein 8-11-2011** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Marc, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, The Atlantic, Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America,[[http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">What are the consequences of further downgrades? ……. except with no one available to bail out the U.S. government</span>.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">That specifically collapses US economic leadership</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">**Raman 8-3-11** [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Manikandan, International Business Times, U.S. Reaches Debt Deal: Is it Enough to Sustain AAA Rating?,[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/191564/20110803/us-debt-ceiling-spending-cuts-debt-deal-aaa-rating-barack-obama-president-s-p-fitch-moodys-treasury.htm]]]</span>
But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the key question is whether the raising of the debt ceiling is enough to keep the country's AAA rating…… </span>further fiscal consolidation measures are not adopted in 2013 and the economic outlook deteriorates significantly.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Economic leadership prevents nuclear war from economic collapse—leadership key to resilience</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Mandelbaum 2005</span>** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005
[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]
Although <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood …… </span>A <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Broad statistical models prove – unmanaged economic declines lead to global conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Royal, Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;"> [</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.</span> ……. This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===[[#Negative--Super Committee DA]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Super Committee DA</span>=== 
====[[#Negative--Super Committee DA-1NC Shell]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Disadvantages-Super Committee DA-1NC Shell]]1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The Debt Deal Super Committee compromise coming now to create deficit reduction – multiple structural factors make it likely, but new partisan fights, specifically over lobbies, can derail it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Ragusa, ’9-8</span> [9/8/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/author/jordanragusa/|Jordan Ragusa]]</span>, “Reasons to be Optimistic about the Super Committee” ,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/09/08/reasons-to-be-optimistic-about-the-super-committee/]]</span>, SM]
The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction—a.k.a. the “super committee”—will hold its first official meeting today (September 8th) at 10:30am. Today’s meeting of the committee is an organizational one, with members debating and approving the committee’s rules and procedures. Any student of Congress knows that rules and procedures are critical, so this is an important first step. We will no doubt have a better understanding of the committee in the coming weeks (the first formal hearing is set for Tuesday the 13th). What follows are a few of my preliminary thoughts on the super committee. For a variety of reasons that I spell out in the following pages, I’m optimistic about the eventual outcome; I believe <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">they will find a meaningful compromise</span> (a bold claim, perhaps, given the recent debt ceiling fight). My thoughts on the super committee are largely informed by my opinions on the operation of conference committees. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Conference committees</span>, after all, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">share many important features with the super committee</span>. Both are joint ad-hoc committees. Both are comprised of members selected by party leaders in consultation with the jurisdictional committee chairmen. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Both operate in a context marked by </span>the competing forces of party discipline and seeking<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> compromise. Both are comprised (primarily) of policy experts.</span> And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">both have the power to make unamendable proposals to their respective chambers</span>. The first reason I’m optimistic about a successful outcome has to do with the norms and expectations in which the super committee will likely operate. As far as explanatory factors go, norms have fallen out of favor with contemporary political science(what with the inherent measurement problems and all). But in this case I <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">think the norms and expectations of the committee provide a powerful motivation for members to seek compromises</span>(that is, vote contrary to their partisan and/or ideological preferences). This is an argument which has been made in the past with respect to conference committees. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amazon.com/Politics-Finance-John-F-Manley/dp/B0036LOV96|Manley]]</span> (1970, 271) noted that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the “overriding ethic” of conference committees is “bargaining, give-and-take, compromise, horse-trading, conciliation, and malleability by all concerned.”</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.getcited.org/pub/102710086|Longley and Oleszek]]</span>(1989, 2) maintain that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">conference committees are “‘the epitome of legislative politics’ in terms of such processes as negotiation, bargaining, and compromise.</span>” And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract;jsessionid=9B956D816A316C80C385E00A3103058F.tomcat1?fromPage=online&aid=6275928|Ferejohn]]</span> (1975, 1035) noted that “<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">recognition of the cooperative behavior between the House and Senate conferees can lead to a much different interpretation of data on conference decision-making.”</span> This is a point I have echoed in some of my own work on conference outcomes. For example, if we use multivariate spatial modeling to compare pre- and post-conference roll-call patterns, what we uncover is that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the process of resolving bicameral disputes is inherently multidimensional (rather than a typical left-right conflict) and that the primary explanatory dimension is one of policy compromise</span> (either greater log-rolls or greater bill moderation). This suggests that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">party discipline </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">breaks down</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">–to an extent–in these kinds of situations.</span> So in short, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">I think members of the super committee expect a priori to cut unpopular deals and this cognitive script will get the committee through the day.</span> Let’s not forget, after all, that the so-called super committee was created for this very reason. These joint ad-hoc committees have secured critical compromises as far back as the <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://rule22.wordpress.com/2011/08/04/a-long-history-of-super-committees-the-connecticut-compromise/|drafting of the Constitution]]</span> and, presumably, members of Congress have an idea about how these kinds of committees typically operate. A challenge to the prior view is that the party leaders’ selection power is paramount in these situations. A <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://prq.sagepub.com/content/60/4/593.short|paper by Lazarus and Monroe]]</span> (2007), for example, shows us that non-jurisdictional lawmakers are often chosen to serve in a conference committee for the purpose of skewing policy outcomes in a direction favorable to their party (away from the chamber median). I agree with this view in principle (in fact I have some findings supporting it), though my work generally argues that pro-majority conference outcomes are muchrarer than compromise outcomes. But I think this question–though important–is moot in this particular case as <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://themonkeycage.org/blog/2011/08/11/mapping-the-super-committee/|Sarah Binder]]</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://voteview.spia.uga.edu/blog/?p=2258|Keith Poole]]</span> and <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://enikrising.blogspot.com/2011/08/supercommittees-ideal-points.html|Seth Masket]]</span> have each shown that<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">members appointed to the super committee represent their chamber and party quite nicely </span>(in other words, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">ideology does not appear to be a deciding factor in who was selected</span>). I think this is a powerful signal as to the top-down pressures on the committee (where that pressure is, get a deal done). <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Even the staff selected to serve on the committee [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/2011/08/30/gIQAGRChqJ_story.html|have been praised]] for working constructively with both parties. Another reason I’m optimistic about the operation of the super committee has to do with expertise. </span>Quite simply, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">these members have been working on this issue for a while and are quite adept in this policy domain</span>. Two of the House and two of the Senate committee members—Chris Van Hollen, Jim Clyburn, Jon Kyl and Max Baucus—were on the Biden Committee. Xavier Becerra was on the Bowles-Simpson committee. John Kerry is a senior member of the finance committee. Rob Portman, the least senior member of the super committee, just so happens to be a former director of OMB. And Dave Camp is chairman of both Ways and Means and the Joint Committee on Taxation. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">This bounty of expertise is important because often it takes policy expertise and skilled negotiators to craft a workable compromise. Compromise is not easy, after all, in a Congress with few moderates.</span> Jim Clyburn, a Super Committee member, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/politics/july-dec11/supercommittee_08-11.html|mentioned]]</span> this point in a recent interview, noting that “despite all of this rhetoric, we have got a group of veterans here…you have got people who don’t have to do studying to reach a deal.” Finally, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the location of the status quo and the transaction costs incurred by the committee compels compromise as well.Should the committee fail, the $1.5 trillion in spending will be made up with across-the-board cuts</span>. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Those cuts are to be split evenly between defense and non-defense spending</span>. Though not as critical as failure on increasing the debt-ceiling, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the status quo facing the committee is sub-optimal for members of both parties, I suspect</span>. There is also the possibility that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">a bipartisan deal could increase confidence in our financial system while a failure could seriously upset global investment in U.S. financial assets</span>. Regarding transaction costs, the committee members have invested significant legislative resources in securing a deal. There have been, and will be, major “information” and “bargaining” costs involved in studying, negotiating, and drafting the final product. Failing to secure a deal would be very costly for these individual members. Such an outcome could come with a political price as well. So those are some of my optimistic thoughts on the super committee. There are reasons, of course, to be pessimistic about the committee. For example<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">, powerful lobbying and interest groups will no doubt push committee members in a direction other than compromise.</span> Some <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/06/us-healthcare-lobbyists-idUSTRE7855WT20110906|reports]]</span> even suggest that the health care industry would prefer a failure and the automatic spending cuts. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Partisan bickering, politicking and grandstanding is also likely. The question is </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">whether these forces are greater than the prior forces.</span> Stay tuned…

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The plan would spark that – any new additional spending has to go through the super committee process – guarantees partisan fights on finding cuts</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Suderman, ‘8-17 </span>[<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/people/peter-suderman|Peter Suderman]]</span>, August 17, 2011, “<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the|Would It Be Better to Pull the Debt-Deal Trigger?]]</span>”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the]]</span>, SM]
In large part, that’s because we don’t know what the committee will actually recommend. It might, for example, include deficit reduction ideas that designed to allow Congress to get out of them years down the road. It might even include additional spending on longer unemployment benefits and an infrastructure bank. According to <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904253204576512840107978776.html?wpisrc=nl_wonk|The Wall Street Journal]]</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the Obama administration looks ready to push for additional stimulus spending in the committee’s deficit package:</span> The White House is looking for ways to boost the sluggish economy and bring down unemployment that is now stuck above 9%. Mr. Obama, facing re-election next year, has been pushing Congress for months to adopt a variety of stimulus measures, some of which he could urge the committee to embrace. These include extending unemployment-insurance benefits and a payroll-tax cut for employees, which expire at year end and together cost more than $160 billion a year, and an infrastructure bank that could cost as much as $30 billion. The White House is also looking at a payroll-tax cut for employers, worth perhaps as much as roughly $110 billion, and other tax breaks for businesses of as much as $55 billion. Mr. Obama's recommendations could complicate the committee's task because the stimulus measures, by increasing government spending and reducing revenue, would worsen the deficit in the short term. Now, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">it’s </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">not likely</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> that additional stimulus spending </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">would get past the committee</span>: <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Americans for Tax Reform pledge not to increase revenues </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">doesn’t outlaw additional spending</span>, but <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">it would mean that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">the spending would have to be offset by further cuts</span>. And <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">finding cuts that the committee’s Republican and Democratic members can both agree on will be tough enough as it is</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Space policy makes the magnitude of our link argument is __huge__ – finding funds for space policy creates fights – competing priorities make it difficult</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Handberg, 11</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]]</span>)
The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving another difficult goal such as going to Mars, a logical extension truly of the Apollo effort. Twice, the presidents Bush provided the presidential rationale, if not support, for achieving great things. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Space Exploration Initiative</span> (SEI) in 1989 <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">and the Vision for Space Exploration</span> (VSE) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">in 2004 were announced with great fanfare but neither survived the realities of congressional and presidential budgeting</span>. The VSE appeared on paper more realistic about funding, but its choices were draconian: the ISS and space shuttle were both to be sacrificed on the altar of the new program. The earlier SEI died quickly, so hard choices were not required, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">while the VSE in the form of the Constellation Program lingers on although its effective demise appears certain. The Obama Administration prefers another approach while the new Congress is likely more hostile to big ticket discretionary spending. If the Tea Party faction in the Republican House caucus means what it says, the future for Constellation or any other similar program is a dim one</span>. The reality is that the Apollo program, the SEI, and the VSE are examples in space terms of the home run approach. Such efforts confront the cruel but obvious reality that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the human spaceflight program is considered by the public and most of Congress to be a “nice to have,” but not a necessity when compared to other programs or national priorities.</span> Congressional support is narrow and constituency-driven (i.e. protect local jobs), which means <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">most in Congress only support the space program in the abstract.Big ticket items</span> or programs <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">are not a priority for most, given other priorities. </span>What happens is what can be loosely termed normal politics: a situation where human spaceflight remains a low priority on the national agenda. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Funding for bold new initiatives is going to be hard to come by even when the economy recovers and deficits are under control.</span> The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.

Failure causes a depression
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Ornstein 9/14</span>/11 [Norman, resident fellow at AEI, Deficit Panel Could Change Economic World, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/104137]]</span> jg]
Lachman is one of the economists who say <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">now is not the time for applying medium- or long-term fiscal reform to our short-term need to stimulate to avoid the worst case, which is more than a double-dip recession — it is a global depression</span>. In an ideal world, we would couple sound short-term policy with a real commitment to longer-term debt reduction. Perversely, perhaps, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">that grim reality gives me a bit more hope than I had before about the prospect for a breakthrough from the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction</span>. If anyone can understand these dilemmas, and the strong inter-relationship between the European situation and our own economy, it is Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), who has been both a budget director and a trade representative in addition to his service in the House and Senate. The same is true for Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.), chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. Of course, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the temptation to let partisan politics take over, leading to even more gridlock, remains high</span>. On Sunday, Politico published the following chilling quote about President Barack Obama’s jobs plan: “‘Obama is on the ropes; why do we appear ready to hand him a win?’ said one senior House Republican aide who requested anonymity to discuss the matter freely. ‘I just don’t want to co-own the economy by having to tout that we passed a jobs bill that won’t work or at least won’t do enough.’” In other words, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">denying the president a political victory trumps doing something that may help the economy and create jobs — even when it involves policies that have previously been touted by Republicans</span>. But Portman, and perhaps Reps. Dave Camp (R-Mich.) and Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), has to realize that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">we are now playing not with fire, not just with live ammunition, not even with real grenades, but with nuclear weapons. Failure to act in a strong and bold way could risk a depression that could last for years. Thesuper committee may well have the fate of the world in its hands — and a solution is there for the taking</span>. What is it? It starts with the template that every bipartisan group inside and outside Congress has come up with: $4 trillion overall in deficit reduction over 10 years including major tax reform which lowers rates and adds about $1 trillion, a fourth of the overall package, in revenues. Combine that with a version of the president’s jobs program for the near term, and we have it. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Imagine if that kind of package got adopted by the super committee, especially by a vote of say, 10-2 or 9-3</span> — <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">enough of a margin to enable it to survive its otherwise dicey prospects in the House, and likely to sail through the Senate</span>. (Note to Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.): no filibuster or other delay tactics allowed.) <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The shock to conventional wisdom would be immense</span>. Likely, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S. markets would soar and there would be a comparable reaction abroad. It could actually provide enough of a positive shock to the system that it would changedomestic and international consumer and business psychology, providing a major positive effect on the global economy.</span> Can all this be done by Nov. 23? Actually, the tax reform package can be put together pretty quickly, if the base-broadening is done by setting deduction limits rather than picking out winners and losers among the popular deductions. If I had my druthers, I would opt for providing even deeper cuts in rates by adding a kind of consumption tax advocated by the Domenici-Rivlin Bipartisan Policy Center commission. There are many ways to restrain the growth curves of Social Security and Medicare without hitting core benefits for most recipients. Raising the Medicare age to 67 is feasible — but only if the Affordable Care Act is in place, providing alternative health insurance options for older Americans caught without jobs or Medicare. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">None of this is easy. Doing it requires unnatural acts for politicians driven by the contemporary frenzy of our tribal politics. But success could make history</span> for people such as Portman, Kerry, Camp and Upton. So here is my question for all of you: Why are you there, if not to make history and improve the lives of Americans? You all have a rare, maybe unprecedented chance to do something remarkable. Don’t blow it.

Independently, failure to come up with a compromise destroys hegemony and causes global nuclear war – defense spending is key to deter China and Iran, protect sea lanes, solve terrorism and North Korean War
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">O’Hanlon 9/13</span>/11 [Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx?rssid=LatestFromBrookings&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopfeeds%2FLatestFromBrookings+%28Brookings%3A+Latest+From+Brookings%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]]</span>]
Most worrisome is the default plan. As part of the August deficit and debt deal, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the new Fiscal “Supercommittee” is due to present a plan before Thanksgiving</span> for an up-or-down vote by Congress before Christmas. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">If such a plan is not approved, defense and national security will automatically suffer another $500 billion or so in ten-year cuts, making for a grand total of about $900 billion. Such draconian cuts would jeopardize irreducible requirements in American defense policy—winding down current wars responsibly, deterring Iran, hedging against a rising China, protecting global sea lanes vital for commerce, attacking terrorists and checking state sponsors of terror, and ensuring a strong all-volunteer military as well as a world-class defense scientific and industrial base</span>. Behind these specific recommendations is a broader premise. Not only the United States, but <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the world in general, benefits from the current international order in which America is the strongest power and helps lead a broader alliance system involving most of the world’s other major powers. World peace would not be served by U.S. disarmament or even a trend towards the emergence of multiple, comparable power centers</span>. I do not mean Americans should want to dominate others. Nor should the United States do other countries’ fighting for them. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">if the United States were to stop playing a global leadership role, competition and conflict would be the likely result. In such a “multipolar” world, countries would often be less confident of their own security, and sometimes inclined to take matters into their own hands by engaging in arms races, building nuclear weapons, or even attacking their neighbors</span>. We Americans get lots of things wrong, but we usually get around to the right policy after trying all others as Churchill famously remarked. In the end most peaceful democratic states do not fear us and want to ally with us. As such our power is stabilizing, and desirable. Perhaps someday a world made up just of democracies will, as “democratic peace theory” would predict, be inherently stable on its own, without a strong leader.[1] But the world is not there yet. Put differently, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">we have to be careful about cutting defense so much that we have to give up some current overseas missions and responsibilities</span>. It would be nice if some parts of the world had become less important, some missions that were previously very important obsolescent, some allies that had previously been too weak to carry much of the burden of maintaining international stability much stronger and more inclined to use their power in productive ways. But the world does not offer many such easy options. One place might be Russia; despite Moscow’s prickliness on many issues, it has become more security partner than adversary of the United States, and any threats it might pose to NATO are minimal. However, our force planning already downplays the possibility of scenarios involving Russia, as it should, so there are no big further savings to reap. Some might think that Korea would offer a more promising case where American security commitments could be reduced. And it is true that South Korea’s military is stronger than before, North Korea’s less strong. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the last time we tried to ignore the Korean threat</span>, back in 1949 when Secretary of State Dean Acheson infamously declared it beyond America’s security perimeter of key overseas interests, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">what we got was an emboldened North Korea and a full-fledged war. Today, North Korea is ruled by the same fanatical regime as before, and while the conventional military balance on the peninsula now strongly favors the Republic of Korea and United States, North Korea now has nuclear weapons</span>. For reasons I develop further in the pages that follow, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">we would be unwise to draw back from the world or take a big gamble on simply deciding to forgo certain types of military responsibilities. To be sure, we may choose not to carry out the next “war of choice.” But we may not always have a choice about when and where to fight; in a world with proliferating nuclear arsenals, transnational terrorists, and other threats that can reach out and touch us even from far away, what happens in other regions can affect Americans much more directly than we might prefer</span>. In his retirement ceremony speech of August 31, 2011, the greatest general of his generation, David Petraeus, warned us that as a nation we do not always get to choose the wars we fight, and it was good advice. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Rather than retrench, our primary focus in cutting the defense budget should be to look for ways to be more innovative, cost-effective, and brutally efficient in how we prepare for most possible contingencies and maintain existing obligations. It is not the time for America to come home from the world</span>. Military budget cuts should not be, and cannot be, our main means to reducing the deficit. Cutting $350 billion over 10 years, or perhaps up to $500 billion, would entail some risk to America’s global interests. As such, it can only be justified on national security grounds if the nation’s economy is strengthened substantially in the process. Nations with hollow economies cannot be secure indefinitely, so it is legitimate to view the debt as a national security threat, and economic renewal as a national security imperative. However, this idea only works if projected deficits are reduced enough to make a notable difference in America’s economic prognosis. And that is only possible if broad-based deficit reduction occurs. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">As big as the defense budget is, moreover, it is only one of five big components of the federal budget of roughly comparable size</span>—the others being Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the sum total of other domestic programs ranging from science research to infrastructure development to federal support for education. In short,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">big defense cuts are only sound policy if they are accompanied by entitlement revisions and tax reforms that reduces spending and increases revenue. </span>There is no exact point at which defense cuts become excessive and unwise. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">make no mistake about it: we will have to cut into muscle, and not just fat or waste</span>, to achieve even the $350 billion to $500 billion ten-year cuts that are now being taken as a given. <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Such reductions would constitute almost 10 percent of planned spending, above and beyond reductions that will occur as the wars end</span>. This book attempts to develop a plan for accomplishing such reductions without jeopardizing the country’s security interests. But I hope to show that even cuts of this size would be risky, and that deeper cuts would be too much. I reach this conclusion not as some superhawk or member of the “military-industrial complex” that Eisenhower warned us about, but as a Democrat, former Peace Corps volunteer, scientist by training, budget specialist by background, and independent scholar. And I agree with deficit hawks that we must look hard, in uncomfortable ways, for means of scaling back. But it is equally important not to be reckless in the effort. This book’s argument is equally passionate about two points—that <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the military budget must play a major role in deficit reduction, but also that the process must not go too far and must be grounded in a sound national security strategy for the United States</span>.

====[[#Negative--Super Committee DA-2NC Overview]]==== 



==[[#Negative-Kritiks]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Kritiks</span>== 
===[[#Negative-Kritiks-Race K]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K]]Race K</span>=== 
====[[#Negative-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 1]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 1]]1NC Version 1</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Technology has become the new American theology. The affirmative’s techno-fetish ignores the SUBTEXT OF WHITENESS at the core of their science.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Dinerstein 2k6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Immediately after 9/11, ….. By the conclusion, I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">McQUAID</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">2k7</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. ….. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">This essay addresses the fight to make America’s space program—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;"> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. ……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">MEMMI </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">2000</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, ….. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


====[[#Negative-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 2]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 2]]1NC Version 2</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;"> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today ….. Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">McQUAID</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">2k7</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age…… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">—like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>. …… Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">MEMMI </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">2000</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, …… True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


====[[#Negative-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 3]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Kritiks-Race K-1NC Version 3]]1NC Version 3</span>==== 

White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. Our Hobbseian social contract is really a RACIAL contract which ENFORCES this system. We must aggressively ENGAGE a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it is today…… Contract talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.</span>


Space has always been a racially-charged arena, but the political struggles go consistently UNNOTICED.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">McQUAID</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof Emeritus @ Lake Erie University </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">2k7</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Kim-; //SOCIETAL IMPACT OF SPACE FLIGHT//, Chapter 22; Steven J. Dick and Roger D. Launius Editors;</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Racism, Sexism, and Space Ventures”: Civil Rights at NASA in the Nixon Era and Beyond.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Race and gender are almost invisible aspects of the early Space age. …….. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">like america itself—more diverse and inclusive.</span>

Their space policy perceives American history as a straight line of inevitability that links westward expansion to the colonization of space.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 17.3333px;">Billings 2006</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Linda Billings is a Ph.D. Research Associate at the SETI Institute in Washington, DC. Linda has a Ph.D. in mass communication. She specializes in research, analysis, commentary on space policy, and the history of rationales for space exploration. She has more than 30 years of experience in the field of communication and 25 years of experience in aerospace; “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” presented at the IASTS 21st Annual Conference February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD; AL]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">The social, political, economic and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">cultural context for the U.S. civil space program has changed radically since the 1960s…… the blinders worn to screen the past have proven to be just as effective at distorting the view of the future.”</span>

The ignorance of these racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through EPISTEMOLOGICAL ETHNOCENTRISM where any achievement deemed to fall OUTSIDE the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY and EXTRA-TERRESTRIALITY are used to DEMONIZE non-European space.
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">MILLS</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">There are two main dimensions to this norming: the epistemological and the moral. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">And the society they saw themselves founding was, correspondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."</span>

The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.
We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">DR. CRENSHAW</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10.6667px;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the ideology of white privilege operates through rhetorical silence</span>……. Thus, silent rhetorical constructions of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.
Racism is a decision rule – moral obligation to come first
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 21.3333px;">2000</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission………. If it is accepted, we can hope someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

Hegemony is UNSUSTAINABLE and only serves to JUSTIFY domestic racism by keeping the oppressed at the brink of starvation.\

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">__MARSHALL__</span>** Research Assc with the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG) **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">__2k10__</span>**
Andrew Gavin-currently studying Political Economy and History @ Simon Fraser University; War, Racism and the Empire of Poverty: When Empire Hits Home, Part 1; GLOBAL RESEARCH, March 22;
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263|www.globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleld=18263]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Thus, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the American Empire is in decline……. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The war is waged by the ruling group against its own subjects and its object is not the victory</span>


===[[#Negative-Kritiks-XO CP]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">XO CP</span>=== 



Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects enacting through the appropriate agencies



Contention 1: Solvency



Executive orders effectively implement policy with the force of law.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">With the Stroke of a Pen]</span>//

These chronicles of presidential decisiveness and unilateral action are at odds …..“the President’s lawmaking role is substantial, persistent, and in many cases disturbing.”8



<span class="cite" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Pres powers on the brink – Obama has little presidential influence – Cowed by conservatives, supports those who backstab him, and betrays campaign promises</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The Agonist, </span>7/6/<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">10</span>(Aurelius, Freelance writer, “The CV Is Hardening: Obama is Weak”,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://agonist.org/aurelius/20100706/the_cv_is_hardening_obama_is_weak]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">"Weak," "wimp," "soft." ….. </span>what they're doing during the 2012 Democratic primaries.

Executive orders are key to presidential powers – they control policies and set agendas.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Mayer 01</span> [Kenneth, Professor in the Department of Poli Sci @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, //<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Executive Orders and Presidential Power</span>//, pg. 28-29]



This theoretical perspective offered by the new institutional economics literature provides …… within a particular structure context over which they have no control.



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">PCAP 8</span> (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">This legacy could lead the Congress……. And, of course, the President has the bully pulpit.</span>



Warming causes extinction-melting ice caps.

Tickell,’08 [Tickell, The Guardian, journalist, author of Kyoto 2, climate expert, 8/11/2008, Oliver, "On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction," <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>]

We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the idea that we could adapt</span> to a 4C rise <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">is absurd and dangerous…… </span>Many scientists warn that this historical event may be analogous to the present: the <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">warming</span> caused by human emissions could <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">propel us towards a</span>similar<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>



===[[#Negative-Kritiks-EU CP]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">[[#Negative Evidence-Counterplans-EU CP]]EU CP</span>=== 

TEXT: The European Union should fund the European Space Agency to increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects based on United States asteroid detection technology. The ESA should model all technology based off United States technology



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">CP solves the case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Brauer and Monte 2005</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Development for the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>

The above described scenario suggests that the potential contribution ……<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;">.. </span>prototypes, demonstrators or space borne infrastructure components to serve defence requirements.



ESA’s project – Don Quijote – can effectively deflect asteroids

Roberts 9 <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karlene H., PhD, Has School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, Chair, Center for Catastrophic Risk Management, University of California, August 2009, Natural Hazards Observer, “The Catastrophe We Can Prevent: the Near Earth Orbit Problem,”[[http://ccrm.berkeley.edu/pdfs_papers/9.09/Roberts_Near_Earth_Object_Problem3.pdf]] MGE)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">The European Space Agency (ESA) has addressed one part of the deflection problem. Its project, Don Quijote, is a mission concept addressing the projectile proposal. A non threatening asteroid would be identified. A spacecraft would fly out and observe the asteroid for some period of time. A second spacecraft would then fly out and ram the asteroid and the first spacecraft would continue to measure changes in asteroid trajectory, etc</span>. This program is as yet unfunded.

===[[#Negative-Kritiks-UN CP]]UN CP=== 
---1NC
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States State Department should initiate multilateral measures in order to <plan’s mandates> through the United Nations. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">US must commit to international multilateralism __through__ the United Nations</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hadani, ’10</span> [2010, Driss El Hadani, “How to engage current and future space actors”, Chapter 6 of Fair and Responsible Use of Space: An International Perspective, pp. 146-153]

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The United Nations through the Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS)...updated and reinforced to serve as the framework for the fair and responsible use of space.156</span>

=== === 
=== ===