[[toc]]
==== ==== 
=SPS= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">1NC Energy </span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">1. Status Quo solves US oil dependence for the next 300 years </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Ostroff 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jim ostroff, associate editor at kiplinger, senior editor at platts a leading energy information provider, subdivision of the mcgraw hill corporation; BA in history from Newyork Queens college, Columbia journalism graduate school “The U.S.’s untapped Bounty” June 30 2008 http://www.kiplinger.com/businessresource/forecast/archive/The_U.S._s_Untapped_Bounty_080630.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Think the U.S. is …the petroleum produced. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">2. Resource wars are empirically denied – disasters </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Salehyan 07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” | August 14, 2007 [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, aside from … and natural disasters. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">3. Nuclear power solves carbon dependence and emissions – It is THE safest fuel source </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Craven ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Gwyneth Cravens, associate editor harpers magazine, Masters degreee from NYU, contributor The New York Times, and The Washington Post [[http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/opinion/51497226-82/power-nuclear-fuel-fossil.html.csp]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Amid all the … power must shrink. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">4. High oil prices cause a transition to alternative energy absent the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Rivlin, 03/16</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul Rivlin has a PhD from the University of London and is a Senior Research Fellow at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African studies, specializing in the Middle East economy and its historical development, “High Oil Prices and the Middle East Strategic Balance,” on March 16,2011 from [[http://www.dayan.org/pdfim/TA_Notes_RIVLIN_Oil_MAR16_11.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Does it make sense</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;"> __…__</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the medium term.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">1NC Leadership </span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">The NSSO study cited in the 1AC is terrible – it has no funding</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Day 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Dwayne A.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Day</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">6/09/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">,</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">( Day is a staff writer for The Space review, “Knights in shining armour”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1, 6/30/11. GOOGLE, AW]</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">The NSSO</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> study </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">…the Pentagon leadership.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Aerospace industry is improving – stronger sales</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">AviationInternationalNews</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">2-1-</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;"> [Paul Lowe, 2/1/11, " AIA: aerospace industry rebounds in 2010 ", http://www.ainonline.com/news/single-news-page/article/aia-aerospace-industry-rebounds-in-2010-28394/]</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">the</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … at $45.5 billion.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Heg solves nothing- past two decades prove</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mearsheimer 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;"> (John J., R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, The National Interest, Imperial by Design, lexis)</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">One year later, …</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;"> a pronounced pessimism.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Soft power fails</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rachman2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">[Gieldon, writer for the Financial Times, “Obama and the limits of soft power,” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e608b556-4ee0-11de-8c10-00144feabdc0.html]</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Barack </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue',serif;">Obama is … dangerous as before.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
==1NC Coop== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">We’re implementing the NSP now – TCBMs have increased international cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rose ’10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Frank A. Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance US Department of State “ Remarks at the Secure World Foundation and UNIDIR Conference, Space Security: Next Steps in TCBMs” http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/149491.htm] </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thank you for your ... contributions to space security. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">SBSP not ready until 2040 because of costs</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">Fan</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, 6/2</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">(William , Harold Martin, James Wu, Brian Mok)( Sales Manager at Phono Solar; former Winston-Salem State University chancellor, the new chancellor at North Carolina A&T State; is Curator of Search for the Obvious and a Senior Associate in Business Development at Acumen Fund; is senior mining analyst at Union Securities. Previously he worked at Research Capital as a mining analyst, and as an associate as part of Scotia Capital's Mining and Metals Research Team . " SPACE BASED SOLAR POWER", 6/2/11. http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf.) 6/30/11. JD</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">In this report ... large, governmental investments,</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">There are problems with the plan, no matter how popular it seems to be</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">Farrar’08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [Lara Farrar, Correspondent for CNN, 6-1-08, “How to Harvest Solar Power? Beam it down from Space!http://www.cnn.com/2008/TECH/science/05/30/space.solar/index.html]</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">a number of ... a billion-dollar bill.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">SBSP not feasible- launch infrastructure</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">Rouge</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">07' </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Joseph D. ( Director of National Security Space Office ), " Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study ", 10 October 2007, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf. 6/30/11. JD.</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">S</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">pace Solar </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">P</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">ower </span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">...</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;"> equivalent units (TFUs).</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Huge Barriers stopping any development of SBSP- there is no support from the agencies that can actually implement them</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10pt;">Day’08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';"> [Dwayne A. Day, Writer for Space Review, 6-9-2008, “Knights in shining Armor” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">The reason that SSP ... the Pentagon leadership.</span></span>

=Weaponization= 
==1NC Heg== 

**Weaponization and arms race not inevitable—**
**Inherent checks**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller, 6</span>__** (Karl, PhD and Political Scientist @ RAND, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)

2. Space is already ... as technological terms.

**Terrestrial military analogies are wrong – space is unique and not necessarily destined to be weaponized**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mueller, 6</span>__**(Karl, PhD and Political Scientist @ RAND, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408)

<span class="Underline">Another big argument ... a blank sheet of paper.</span>

**No motivation or ability for adversaries to challenge us in space - only a risk US weaponization would lead to conflict**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens, 3</span>__** (Theresa, Director of the Center for Defense Information, “ Monsters and Shadows: Left Unchecked, American Fears Regarding Threats to Space Assets Will Drive Weaponization,” Disarmament Forum No1, Accessed on Spacedebate.com, [[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/1222/]])

It is obvious ...<span class="Underline"> translate into threats. </span>
**Heg inevitable – their ev is perennial scaremongering**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nye, 10</span>__** -- December University Distinguished Service Professor at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]] and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (December 2010, “THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN POWER: DOMINANCE AND DECLINE IN PERSPECTIVE.” Published by Foreign affairs, [[http://1431731ontario.net/Current/Articles/TheFutureOfAmericanPower_DominanceAndDeclineInPerspective.pdf]])

Despite such differences ...<span class="Underline"> mistakes in policy.</span>

**Turn - developing ASATs undermines primacy – inherent vulnerabilities hamstring US power**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens, 02</span>__** – vice president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Future Security in Space: Commercial, Military, and Arms Control Trade-Offs,” Occasional Paper No. 10, ed: Moltz, [[http://cns.miis.edu/pubs/opapers/op10/op10.pdf]])

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Times;">One problem is ... rather than solving them. </span>
**Weaponization won’t solve heg or deterrence – our conventional superiority means that the calculus is already set**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Krepon, 3</span>__** – president of the Stimson Center (Michael, with Christopher Clary, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance?.” The Henry L. Stimson Center, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)

These presumed benefits ...<span class="Underline"> in preemptive strikes.</span>

==1NC China== 

**No China threat - domestic issues will keep them out of military confrontation with the US**
**<span class="Underline">MacDonald, 5/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Institute of Peace (11, Bruee W., Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission on The Implications of China’s Military and Civil Space Programs, pdf)</span>

In the face of ... through miscalculation or distraction.

**No risk of rise - China cannot become the hegemon because of structural barriers**
**<span class="Underline">Nye 6/23</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – University Distinguished Service Professor at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]] and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Joseph, transcript of a discussion involving Mahbubani, Nye, and Moyo, published in NYT opinion, NYT, “The Seesaw of Power.” Discussion moderated by Serge Schmemann. [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/24/opinion/global/24iht-june24-ihtmag-nye-36.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]])</span>

Nye : I actually agree ...<span class="Underline"> gobbling up commodities.</span>

**China won’t challenge us – the gulf is too large**
**<span class="Underline">Nye, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- University Distinguished Service Professor at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]] and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (December 2010, “THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN POWER: DOMINANCE AND DECLINE IN PERSPECTIVE.” Published by Foreign affairs, [[http://1431731ontario.net/Current/Articles/TheFutureOfAmericanPower_DominanceAndDeclineInPerspective.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Yet </span><span class="Underline">China has a ...</span><span style="font-family: Times;">China’s power grows.</span>

**Diplomacy checks China threat**
**__Hagt, 7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- director of the China Program at the World Security Institute (Eric, “China’s ASAT Test: Strategic Response.” </span><span style="font-family: Times;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_3.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span class="Underline">Even if we ... </span><span style="font-family: Times;">will be essential.</span>

**Impossible to deter China – existing weapons system, military-commercial bonds, and allied response**
**__Meteyer, 5__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Major, U.S. Air Force (“David O., “The Art of Peace: Dissuading China from Developing Counter Space Weapons,” page 41-42, June 2005, http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA435590) </span>

<span class="Underline">Several factors will ...</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Times;"> counter space systems. </span>

**The Rumsfeld commission report on space Pearl Harbors was biased and isn’t credible**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hartung, 05</span>__** (William, senior research fellow at the World Policy Institute at the New School, “Weapons in space put the world at risk”, 7/13, Seattle Post Intelligencer, [[http://seattlepi.nwsource.com/opinion/232239_spaceweapons13.html]])

Within the next ...<span class="Underline"> space weapons program.</span>

**The threat is exaggerated – the impact would be minimal**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Perera, 08</span>__** (David, “'Space Pearl Harbor' overstated,” Government Computer News, 2/22, [[http://www.gcn.com/online/vol1_no1/45866-1.html?topic=geospatial|http://www.gcn.com/online/vol1_no1/45866-1.html?topic=geospatial#]])
<span class="Underline">The Navy’s use of an ... the world</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Times;">,” Mosher said. </span>

=DSCOVR= 
==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC DSCVR </span>== 

**No risk of solar storm impact—engineering solves and empirics disprove your impact**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 2009</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (“2012: Beginning of the End or Why the World Won't End?” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/2012.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A: </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solar activity ... throughout history</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**Solar shield solves grids and detection**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">NASA</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (“Solar Shield--Protecting the North American Power Grid” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/26oct_solarshield/]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solar Shield is...space weather event</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**No impact to meltdown-Chernobyl proves**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Riedl</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathon, assistant editor at The Blaze, quoting Jay Lehr, science director at the Heartland Institute, “‘THIS PANIC HAS BEEN HORRIBLY OVERBLOWN’: SCIENTIST DECRIES NUKE ‘FEAR MONGERING’” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.theblaze.com/stories/this-panic-has-been-horribly-overblown-scientist-decries-nuke-fear-mongering/]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jay </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lehr, science director...than an atomic bomb.”</span>




==<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC DSCOVR</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solar shield solves better than the aff and the impact isn’t terminal – blackouts last for months at the most </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Redd ‘10</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[ Nola Redd, contributor Space.com, 11/8/10 [[http://www.space.com/9484-nasa-solar-shield-protect-power-grids-sun-storms.html]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">NASA has devised ...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and improve Solar Shield." </span>



**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solar shield and grid adaptation will solve the aff – Investors and NASA involvement </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Phillips ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Tony Phillips, production editor of NASA’s Science releases, 10/26/10 http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/26oct_solarshield/]</span>



<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Every hundred years ... matter of time.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">STEREO is step one towards solar shield and solves the aff NOW</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dillow 2/7/</span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Clay, 2/7/11 researcher for popular science, editor for newser “NASA’s STEREO mission now beaming back worlds first 3D view of the Sun” [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-02/nasas-stereo-mission-now-beaming-back-worlds-first-3-d-view-sun]],]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">We may spend out ... predict solar activity. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">There’s no impact to blackouts – Back up power solves and the death toll is fractional – most qualified sources</span>**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wald 7/30**</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">/11 [Matthew L Wald, on energy for the New York Times toured more than two dozen power reactors, He holds a B.A. in urban studies from Brown University [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/30/science/earth/30radiation.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ROCKVILLE, Md. — </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Nuclear ...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> one of the authors. </span>

=James Webb - St Marks Doubles v. Woodward= 
==1NC Inherency== 
The aff isn’t inherent – the Senate appropriations committee just approved a funding increase
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cooney, 9/15</span>__ [Michael, Staff Writer, Layer 8, “NASA's big space telescope avoids death-by-budget-cut,” 9/15/11, http://www.networkworld.com/community/node/78690]
NASA's most ambitious a...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> early next year</span>.


Senate just appropriated enough funds for a 2018 launch
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">IB Times, 9/15</span>__ [“James Webb Space Telescope Project Saved by U.S. Senate,” http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/214312/20110915/james-webb-space-telescope.htm]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA's</span> endangered <span style="font-size: 12pt;">James ...</span> the subcommittee stated.


==1NC EU Relations== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations resilient- studies prove</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">G</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">erman </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">M</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">arshall </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">F</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">und of the US- </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">March 15</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, 2011 , Transatlantic Trends: Leaders 2011 Partners, http://www.gmfus.org/publications/publication_view?publication.id=1620</span>
<span class="Underline">The general state ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> felt the same (see chart 10). </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the plan’s improvement is overwhelmed by other issues</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Haass</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> 12/19/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Richard, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, Financial Times, Lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Agood </span>many observers ... as their ancestors.

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resilient to single issues</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heisbourg</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> 2/9/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Francois, chairs the international institute for strategic studies, pg. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dfe45b44-d4ca-11dc-9af1-0000779fd2ac.html?nclick_check=1)</span>
At this early ... a second honeymoon.

==1NC Knowledge Dominance== 
China will never overtake the U.S. for economic dominance
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weinberger ’10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (David-, Feb. 3, Heritage Foundry, “Why China is Not an Economic Threat to the United States”, http://blog.heritage.org/2010/02/03/why-china-is-not-an-economic-threat-to-the-u-s/)</span>
Recent <span style="font-size: 10pt;">reports of ...</span> world’s largest economy.


No engineering shortage and other countries numbers are inflated
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weinberger ’10 (David-, Feb. 3, Heritage Foundry, “Why China is Not an Economic Threat to the United States”, http://blog.heritage.org/2010/02/03/why-china-is-not-an-economic-threat-to-the-u-s/)</span>
People familiar with ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> are less qualified</span> (see BusinessWeek.com, 12/27/05, "Engineering: Is the U.S. Really Falling?").


Empirically Denied: Claims of poor student performance and scientist shortages have been made for the last 50 years – The impacts NEVER happen
Galama<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Ph.D. & M.Sc. in Physics from the University of Amsterdam, MBA from INSEAD, </span>8<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Titus, “U.S. Competitiveness in Science and Technology,” Prepared for the Office of the Secretary of Defense by the National Defense Research Institute of the RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG674.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Despite the rhetoric</span>and ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> done quite well</span>” (Pielke, 2006).


The plan causes a short-term trade-off with service sector jobs
Bhide<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Glaubinger Professor of Business at Columbia & member of the Center on Capitalism & Society, </span>6<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Amaar, “Venturesome Consumption, Innovation and Globalization,” Paper for a Joint Conference of CESifo and the Center on Capitalism and Society “Perspectives on the Performance of the Continent’s Economies,” July 10, http://www.bhide.net/bhide_venturesome_consumption.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The goals of ...l in downstream firms.</span>


That collapses the economy
USTR 7<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Office of the United States Trade Representative, “Trade and Services,” Benefits of Trade, January, http://www.ustr.gov/sites/default/files/uploads/factsheets/2007/asset_upload_file636_10547.doc)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Services Trade Fuels ...</span> per family of four.


No Impact: No risk of the U.S. losing our technological lead
N<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ational </span>D<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">efense </span>R<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">esearch </span>I<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">nsitute </span>8<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Rand Corporation, “Is the United States Losing Its Edge in Science and Technology?,” Research Brief, http://www.rand.org/pubs/research_briefs/RB9347/index1.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Is the U</span>nited ...<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of losing its edge</span>**</span>.

=ORS= 
==1NC Vagueness== 
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our interpretation is that the plan must define what ORS is</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is best:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">a) The term ‘ORS’ is vague – it is impossible to make a coherent 1NC kills all negative ground and impossible to tell if they’re topical</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Larrimore, 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])RK</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A sampling of... space situational awareness6</span>

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">b) Defining ORS is a prerequisite to their solvency debate – they can’t solve, vote neg on presumption </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">GAO 2k8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, [[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]] /mr)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">DOD is making ...</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> may be hampered.</span>__**

==**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Vagueness </span>**== 
**Here is the government definition for tier 1 – it doesn’t tell us anything useful** 
**ORS.mil No Date** (http://ors.csd.disa.mil/tier-1/index.html accessed 7/29/2011)
__Tier-1 uses existing__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...</span> __new material items.__ 


**Here is the government definition for tier 2 – it doesn’t tell us anything useful** 
**ORS.mil No Date** (http://ors.csd.disa.mil/tier-2/index.html accessed 7/29/2011)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Tier-2 solution ...</span> __low cost satellite.__ 


**Here is the government definition for tier 3– it doesn’t tell us anything useful** 
**ORS.mil No Date** (http://ors.csd.disa.mil/tier-3/index.html accessed 7/29/2011)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In some cases... to urgent needs. </span>





**Implementation matters as much as policy development in space policy**
**Foust, aerospace analyst, journalist and publisher, 10**(November 29, Jeff, “NASA’s extended limbo”, “The Space Review”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1731/1]]</span>)

__It’s all about ...__ __implement it correctly?”__

**Courts will strike down the plan – vague terms haven’t been upheld – clarifying doesn’t check – Empirically previous decisions prove**
**Justia, 1** (US Supreme Court Center, “Clarity in Criminal Statutes: The Void-for-Vagueness Doctrine,” http://supreme.justia.com/constitution/amendment-14/54-void-for-vagueness-doctrine.html, )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For instance, </span>__the...__ __to govern conduct.986__


**Even if the courts know the plan as a whole is a good idea and is necessary, the fact that they** __could__ **have clarified means they’ll still strike it down**
**Batey, 97** – Professor, Stetson University College of Law (Fall 1997, Robert, LexisNexis Academic, Virginia Journal of Social Policy & the Law, “Vagueness and the Construction of Criminal Statutes – Balancing Acts,” 5 Va. J. Soc. Pol'y & L. 1, )
__A further sign...__ __the first place.__

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]