[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Star Trek 1AC:== 

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inherency/Status Quo Stuff</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(As read at Grapevine)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">US Space policy lacks imagination</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Teitel 11</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Amy TeitelJuly, 29 2011NASA Needs To Relearn How To Roll The Dice Amy is an historian of spaceflight</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.motherboard.tv/2011/7/29/nasa-needs-to-relearn-how-to-roll-the-dice]]</span>

**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NASA used to take risks... </span>__****__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> great scientific gain. </span>__**


===**Plan Text(s)**=== 

**(As read at Grapevine)**
**Thus, the opening credits:**

**The United States Federal Government, specifically the President and Congress should convert NASA into Star Fleet and task the agency with achieving the following: to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life forms and new civilizations, to boldly go where no one has gone before, and create the necessary technology to achieve this mission based upon the examples from the Star Trek series.**

**We’ll Clarify.**

===**Feyerabend Advantage**=== 

**Modern science has become anti-revolutionary and unscientific**
**__Feyerabend 75__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, philosopher, from his 1975 Against Method, this card from the section entitled “On Epistemological Anarchism”, full text can be found online at: <http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpfeyerabend1.htm> This evidence has been modified to remove gendered language</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first development is... </span> **__has become a problem__**

**And, science has become a dogmatic, closed epistemological system of theory, merely a helpful myth, but unlike other myths science refuses to acknowledge its own fallibility and rejects all challenges to its methodology as taboo**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">To show the ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> a typical taboo reaction).</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, failure to challenge the dogma of modern science leads to a thoroughly un-scientific science</span>**


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The idea that... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> is 'anything goes'.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, Status Quo science has generated a unique form of epistemological colonization of the non-western other</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">There is another reason.... in non-Western continents. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, Integrating non-scientific counter facts into science is key to re-radicalizing science</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This advice</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> which .... 16th and 17th centuries.</span>



**And, Star Trek is key to reinvigorating space science with imagination**

**__Hawking 95__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Hawking, physicist, from the forward in The Physics of Star Trek by Lawrence M. Krauss, pub.By Harper Perrinial.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I was very pleased ... </span> **__the human spirit.__**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hamilton Advantage**</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Far from unrealistic, our focus of the space debate on Star Trek is the best way to view the word of international relations, technology and geopolitics</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hamilton 09</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark D. Hamilton, PhD Cand. American University’s School of International Service,. “Poli Sci-Fi 101: Lessons from science fiction television for global and outer space politics” in Securing Outer Space Edited by Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan. Routledge, 2009. Pages 205-220. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The roots of contemporary ... of </span>**__the U__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__****__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, Star Trek is key to re-centering the always utopian thought of politics toward egalitarian goals</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hamilton 09</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark D. Hamilton, PhD Cand. American University’s School of International Service,. “Poli Sci-Fi 101: Lessons from science fiction television for global and outer space politics” in Securing Outer Space Edited by Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan. Routledge, 2009. Pages 205-220. </span>

**__Sci-Fi's historic engagement ...__** **__juxtapose alternative futures.__**


===**Solvency/pre-empt/framework stuff**=== 

**The plan and this round are key, science is only able to remain closed because it dominates state policy and education**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">And how often .... certainly</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be considerably increased.</span>



=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">ASPEC</span>=== 

**Interpretation: The United States Federal Government is not a single actor**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brovero 94</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">(Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation : Borderline Policies” Wake Forest Debate Site [[http://www.wfu.edu/Student-organizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm|www.wfu.edu/Student-organizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">)</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The problem is ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">specify an agent of action</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Specifying who enacts the plan is key to analyzing it</span>**
**__Komesar 94__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Neil, John and Rylla Boshard Profesor @ U of Wisconsin, PhD in economics from U Chicago, Imperfect Alternatives: Choosing Institutions in Law, Economics, and Public Policy, p. 4-5)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">who decides. For example,..... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">legal or public </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">policy results</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">Vagueness</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Interpretation: Resolved means determined and firm in intent.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Random House Unabridged 06 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=resolved&r=66</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">re·solved</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">firm in purpose or intent; determined</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">90% of policy is procedure and implementation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Elmore 80</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Public Affairs at University of Michigan, Polysci Quarterly Pages 79-80</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Analysis of Policy .... realm of Implementation.</span>**

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Counter Plans </span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**Anarchy CP**</span>=== 
**TEXT: THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SHOULD IMMEDIATELY AND COMPLETELY DISMANTLE ITSELF IN LIEU OF ANARCHISM**

**SOLVENCY**
**IF THE GOVERNMENT ABOLISHED ITSELF TOMORROW THERE WOULD BE AN IMMEDIATE TRANSITION TO SOCIETIES OF MUTUAL AID AND ORDERED COOPERATION, ANY TRANSITIONAL VIOLENCE WOULD BE SHORT LIVED AND ULTIMATELY LEAD TO SOCIAL CATHARSIS**
**__BARCLAY__**__,__ LECTURER AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, **__1990__** [HAROLD, //PEOPLE WITHOUT GOVERNJl1ENT: AN ANTHROPOLOGY OF ANARCHY,p.129)//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An obligation to .... that is what counts).</span>

**AND, ANARCHIST REVOLUTION IN THE UNITED STATES WILL TOPPLE STATISM WORLDWIDE**
**__BOOKCHIN 71__** (Murray, Founder of the institute for social ecology, from “Post-Scarcity anarchy, p. 23-24)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Every revolutionary epoch,... to its ripeness and decay.</span>


**THE NET BENEFIT IS THE STATE**
**TURNS THE CASE-THE GOVENRMENT WILL NOT GIVE UP ITS AUTHORITY, AND OUR RELIANCE ON IT TO PROTECT US JUST MAKES ALL IMPACTS WORSE, THE HISTORY OF ‘RIGHTS’ PROVES**
**__Barcly, 90__** (Harold, Lecturer at the University of Alberta, from People without Government: An anthropology of anarchy, p 124)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It may also ... groups in society.</span>

**AND, THE BUREACRATIC, CENTRALIZED, AND MILITARIZED NATURE OF STATISM LEADS TO EXTINCTION FROM NCUELAR WARFARE AND ECOLOGICAL COLLAPSE**
**__PURCHASE__,** TEACHES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AND MODERN PHILOSOPHY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY, **__1990__ [**GRAHAM, ANArchist SOCIETY & ITS PRACTICAL REALIZATION (SEE SHARP PRESS * SAN FRANCISCO), P. ELECTRONIC]
**__The future of ...__** **__as the centralized government and the nation-state.__**



**AND, Hierarchy is the root of all violence, from systemic discrimination to nuclear warfare, using the state entrenches those hierarchies.**
**__Crimethinc workers’ collective, ’01__** (Days of war, nights of love: Think for the beginners, p. 31-32.)
**__In our hierarchiacal ...__** **__the edge of nuclear annihilation.__**


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**Critiques**</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**Feminism**</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Link: The aff’s rhetoric of “space exploration and development” both reproduces and prescribes the masculine ontology of patriarchy</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Griffin 09</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Penny Griffin, prof. Politics and International relations, university of New South Wales. “The spaces between us: the gendered politics of outer space” in Securing Outer Space Edited by Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan. Routledge, 2009. Pages 59-75. </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">'Outer space'</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">as a human,... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> may not be explicit'</span>__**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Impact: Patriarchy is the root cause of war and oppression</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Betty A.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reardon</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Director of the Peace Education Program at Teacher’s College Columbia University, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">93</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Women and Peace: Feminist Visions of Global Security, p. 30-2 (PDNSS6401)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. She argues that </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">patriarchy ... </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> in world politics.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alternative: Reject the aff and rethink the gendered norms of our society</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dricoll and Krook, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">PhD candidate in political science @ Washington U, professor of political science @ Washington U,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 08 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">(Amanda and Mona Lena, “Feminism and Rational Choice Theory,” European Consortium for Political Research, 2008, http://krook.wustl.edu/pdf/Driscoll%20and%20Krook%20ECPR%202008.pdf)</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feminist </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">and rational ... cooperative strategic interaction.</span>


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">**Case Arguments**</span>== 
**The aff engages in normative science, this turns their solvency:**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Feyerabend 75</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The idea that ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__'anything goes'.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, the 1ACs push to get to space NOW leads to the global accident, turning solvency</span>**
**Adams,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Masters Political Science, </span>**03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)</span>

<span class="Underline">**The incessant drive ...** **that is exterminated**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, by playing scientific make believe they fail to accomplish anything, this turns solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Feyerabend 75</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Feyerabend, Philosopher (1975) Against Method, humanities press, from the final chapter, available online at: [[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The change of ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> content,</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> or 'growth').</span>__**