=Broadband Lay 1AC= 
__**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 1: The Status Quo</span>**__

**There is currently a major lack of internet access creating a digital divide and missed opportunities.**

**Murphy 11-8 -11**
http://www.masslive.com/politics/index.ssf/2011/11/massachusetts_gov_deval_patric_2.html Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick says expanding Internet service as important to economy as investing in schools, roads and bridges. Tuesday, November 08, 2011, 4:26 PM By MATT MURPHY.

**And, we’re missing out on an $8 trillion economy**

**Reuters 10/12**
[“FCC unveils new broadband access program.” October 12, 2011. http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-media-fcc-idUSTRE79C02Z20111013]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thus the plan, </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Provision 1: The United States federal government will implement a universal wireless Internet mesh network by establishing a civil-use ViaSat Satellite System beyond the earth’s mesosphere in geostationary orbit.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Provision 2: Enforcement will be seen by the Federal Communications Commission.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Provision 3: Funding will be through the universal service fund.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Provision 4: The affirmative claims right to fiat and clarification of plan intent. We will define all terms and clarify if needed.</span>**

**Advantage 1: Economy**

**A. As economies are becoming increasingly tied, developments in information technology are the key to economic competitiveness.**

**Shangquan 2000**
[Gao. "Economic Globalization: Trends, Risks and Risk Prevention." CDP Background Paper No. 1. 2000. Web. 9 July 2011.]

**B. This digital divide hurts US economic competitiveness.**

**Hamblen 10**
[Matt, reports for Computer World. “FCC says 93M in the US lack broadband, digital divide grows.” Febuary 23, 2010.] BW

**C. There is currently a major lack of internet access creating a digital divide and missed opportunities.**

**Reuters 10/12**
[“FCC unveils new broadband access program.” October 12, 2011. [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-media-fcc-idUSTRE79C02Z20111013]]]

**D. Economies are becoming dependent on each other—US competitiveness is the only way to prevent economic collapse .**

**Jaya 04**
[Petaling. "Competitiveness - The Key to Economic Prosperity." 12 Apr. 2004. Web. 9 July 2011.

**E. Global economic collapse leads to the spread of war, disease, crime, famine, and environmental collapse.**

**Silk 1993**
[Leonard, Prof of Economics @ Pace University, Foreign Affairs, Winter Volume 72, November 1, pg. 167.]

__**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Advantage 1: Digital Democracy</span>**__

**First, the current system is leaving many of the poor without internet, increasing the digital divide. Internet is now critical for Americans to function.**

**Hamblen 10**
[Matt, reports for Computer World. “FCC says 93M in the US lack broadband, digital divide grows.” Febuary 23, 2010.] BW

**Second, federal programs succeed, but expansion is necessary.**

**Dickard & Schneider 2**
[Norris Dickard is a senior associate at the Benton Foundation. His work focuses on public policies related to universal service, educational technology, and bridging the digital divide. Diana Schneider formerly served as the Assistant Director of Outreach at The George Lucas Educational Foundation. She currently works with the Benton Foundation Communication Policy program on projects related to educational technology and bridging the digital divide, “The Digital Divide: Where We Are Today,” 7/1/2002 http://www.edutopia.org/digital-divide-where-we-are-today] BW

**Third, the digital divide is undermining democracy in America and destroys civic engagement. Internet access is absolutely critical for democracy in today’s day and age.**

**Lloyd 8**
[Mark Lloyd is an affiliate professor of public policy at Georgetown University and a member of the advisory board of Science Progress, “Advanced IT Policy for a New America,” December 19, [[http://www.scienceprogress.org/2008/12/advanced-it-policy-for-a-new-america/]]]

**Fourth, US internet policy causes massive shifts toward democracy through modeling and civic contact.**

**Shirazia, Ngwenyamaa, & Morawczynskib 9**
[*Farid Shirazia, Institute for Research on Innovation and Technology Management, Ted Rogers School of Management, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada AND Ojelanki Ngwenyamaa, Institute for Research on Innovation and Technology Management, Ted Rogers School of Management, Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada, AND *Olga Morawczynskib, Sciences Studies Unit, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK, “ICT expansion and the digital divide in democratic freedoms: An analysis of the impact of ICT expansion, education and ICT filtering on democracy,” Telematics and Informatics, Received 12 April 2008; revised 27 February 2009; accepted 3 May 2009. Available online 15 May 2009, Science Direct]

**Fifth, democracy solves all impacts and your disad’s too.**

**Diamond 95**
[Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S. 1995. http://www.carnegie....y/diam_rpt.html] BW

**Advantage 3: Healthcare**

**A. The healthcare system is failing because of lack of access to rural families. Telemedicine is crucial to preventing the spread of diseases.**

**Reuters 11**
[“Rural Americans Face Greater Lack of Healthcare Access. Telemedicine Is Crucial to Rural Areas.” July 27, 2011. [[http://fusioncaresystems.com/rural-americans-face-greater-lack-of-healthcare-access-telemedicine-is-crucial-to-rural-areas/]]]

**B. A national broadband program leads to widespread telemedicine access.**

**Davidson and Santorelli 2009**
[A study commissioned by the Department of Commerce, Charles M Davidson and Michael J. Santorelli, Advanced Communications Law & Policy Institute at New York Law School, "The impact of broadband on telemedicine", http://www.uschamber.com/NR/rdonlyres/ec5epgwk7vyanosellij36hyzht3udur5ceemxscfgfayigcrkyfuntto6adiwt7s2rw2g73epqddifjvykf7n6pj6h/BroadbandandTelemedicineApril2009.pdf] BW

**C. Health care is critical to preventing the spread of disease to the point that they become epidemics**

**MASON 2008**
[Vanessa, health care specialist, Universal Health Care Series: The National Security Argument, 8/16 http://vanessamason.wordpress.com/2008/08/16/universal-health-care-series-the-national-security-argument/]

=SBI 1AC= 
We had two versions: lay and speed. Vs. Caney and Southeast we only ran EMP and Israel-Iranian. Vs. Derby in the final go-round we read all three, but added the following START scenario:

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First, current US-NATO missile defense policies return US-Russian relations to Cold War levels—causes Russia to withdraw from START. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Xinhua 12/22</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[“Russia warns anti-missile issue may cause "ice-age" in relations with U.S.” December 12, 2011. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2011-12/22/c_122463253.htm]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Second, start key to prevent miscalc, prolif, and theft of nuclear weapons.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Montreal Gazette in 2009 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- http://www.montrealgazette .com /story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=]</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What they ran</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rd. 2 vs. Caney Valley OS (We ran lay SBI) Win</span>**__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc- They ran vagueness and launches, no case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr- Um, vagueness I think?</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rd. 3 vs. Southeast EG (We ran lay SBI) Win</span>**__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc- China DA, Launches DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr- China DA, Launches DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rd. 5 vs. Derby DJ (We ran lay SBI) Win</span>**__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc- Ozone DA, China DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr- Ozone DA, China DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rd. 6 vs. Caney Valley NT (We ran Broadband)</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc- Ozone DA (this one was linear,) Spending DA, Case Analytics</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr- Ozone DA, Spending DA, Case Analytics</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rd. 8 vs. Derby MR (We ran Varsity SBI)</span>**__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1nc- Ozone DA, Debris DA, Nuclear Taboo F/L</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nc- Rougue States Case turn, dehum F/W</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr- Literally, all of it. lol</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>