[[toc]]
=E-mail me for cites or questions: amyn.a.kassam <at> gmail <dot> com= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greenhill Round One</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The value is justice</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Let us begin with an excerpt from Derrida’s The Animal Therefore I Am, where through his confrontation with the gaze of his cat he uncovers its irreducible alterity:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derrida 2 [Jacques, director of studies at the Ecole des Hautes Itudes, Paris, and visiting professor at University of California, Irvine, New York University, and the New School for Social Research, “The Animal Therefore I Am”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 28, No. 2 Winter 2002]</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Being after, being </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">… response to a call. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">We are always confronted by the singularity of the other and it can confront us without our knowing - the confrontation with the gaze of the cat shows that we are always caught within violent exclusion and are excluding others</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derrida (</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Jacques, director of studies at the Ecole des Hautes Itudes, Paris, and visiting professor at University of California, Irvine, New York University, and the New School for Social Research</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, Spectres of Marx</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">: The State Of The Debt, The Work Of Mourning, And The New International</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, translated by Peggy Kamuf, 1994, pp 5-8 *Gender Modified) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">In what he says…</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> blazon of his nobility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ethics are constantly re-legislated through the norms of political construction and identity – this makes </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">an economy of violent exclusion an inevitable necessity of our interactions </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hagglund (1)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK]) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">In</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> effect, **__every … it is violated.__** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">[CONTINUED IN NEXT CARD…]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is the </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">possibility for any change that cannot be escaped by appealing to utopian ideals</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hagglund (2)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">[HE CONTINES…]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The struggle for …to possible contestation. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Definition of recognition</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">We cannot exclude considerations of rights claims for animals – we must recognize that justice must always remain open to new claims of what is just or unjust</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derrida (3)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Jacques, Force of Law - The "Mystical Foundation of Authority", Translated By Mary Quaintance, 1989, pp.248, 257)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">If we wish **__to …__** determination of justice. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">It</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> forces us to evaluate legality and expand the scope of justice to new areas such as animality </span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derrida (4)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Jacques, Force of Law - The "Mystical Foundation of Authority", Translated By Mary Quaintance, 1989, pp.248, 257)</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This excess of </span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">…</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">obscure or traditional.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">To define the animal as an absolute other through an anthropocentric ethic creates a violent objectivity and undermines the recognition of spectres by defining the animal as singular and separate</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Derrida (5)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> [Jacques, director of studies at the Ecole des Hautes Itudes, Paris, and visiting professor at University of California, Irvine, New York University, and the New School for Social Research, “The Animal Therefore I Am”, Critical Inquiry, Vol. 28, No. 2 Winter 2002 *Gender Modified]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">I would like to … crimes "against humanity?" </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Denying or attempting to undermine the violence inherent in our relationship with the other undermines the possibility of justice altogether</span>**


Greenhill Round 3 was the same aff as round one but I read this card at the end
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hagglund (3)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> A possible objection ... of absolute violence. </span>
==Negative== 

Greenhill Round 2

**The affirmative’s attempt to correct existence and achieve higher value assumes that their impact have intrinsic meaning – the affirmative is an expression of the Will To Truth that appeals to an impossible and ideal Real world – dichotomizing existence into ascetic ideals that engender ressentiment towards life**

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Saurette 96</span>__</span> (Paul, Prof of political theory/science at John Hopkins University, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. [AAK])
**__The Socratic Will__** **__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> principle of modernity. </span>

**Reason enslaves us to an internal order – we become our own priests dictating what is right and wrong**
**__Deleuze 83__** (Gilles, Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, Translated by Hugh Tomlinson, pp.92-3 [AAK])
But in what way … morality, true religion . .

**The denial of life makes nothingness desirable – destroys the meaning to life**
**__Deleuze 83__** (Gilles, Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, Translated by Hugh Tomlinson, pp.96-7 [AAK])
//From the speculative …// the ascetic ideal.

**We must roll the dice with life. Accepting chance requires us to forgo all notions of truth in affirmation of the multiplicity of forces and events that constitute the suffering and subjectivity of life.**
**__Deleuze 83__**(Gilles, Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, Translated by Hugh Tomlinson, pp.25-27[AAK])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The game has … fatally obtained number.23</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Round 4 - same as round two, plus on case responses to framework and theory</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And this link in the 1NC</span>

**The attempt to alleviate pain and suffering ignores that suffering is inevitable – it internalizes pain into guilt and ressentiment**

**__Deleuze 83__** (Gilles, Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Paris VIII, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, Translated by Hugh Tomlinson, pp.126-7 [AAK])

Such, at least,...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> meaning of pain?</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Objective morality does not exist beyond or as a constitutive element of our experience or even our interactions with others. We impose interpretations of right and wrong onto existence to guide action in subjective truths </span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">that shift through relations of domination – the attempt to provide a static interpretation of truth through or independent of social and political forces is a farce</span>**<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">– our attempts to derive them from something external are just examples of entire systems being fabricated. </span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foucault (1)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Michel, Prof @ College de France, Foucault __Reader,__ “Nietzsche, Genealogy, History” pp. 84-6 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Emergence is …their own rules . </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is inherent to the concept of ethics itself – To separate the content of morality from how it’s function has been defined doesn’t make any sense </span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hagglund 4</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK]) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">In</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> effect, **__every …__** possible contestation. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Knowledge cannot have inherent qualities or elements as a concept since it is the fluid trace of origins and concepts by analyzing relationships between them than make some dominant.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foucault (2)</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Michel, Prof @ College de France</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ,“What Is Critique?” from The Politics of Truth (1997), lecture given in May 1978, p. 59-61 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Well, now! Rather … delinquency, sexuality, etc.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is especially true in the context of what we interpret morality to be in a global context - we just impose it onto others</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Douzinas 7</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Costas, Professor of Law and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities at Birkbeck College, University of London “Human Rights and Empire: The political philosophy of cosmopolitanism”, 2007 pp.82-3 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Religion is … twenty-ﬁrst centuries’. 74 </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Part Three – </span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">First, </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">the norm against targeted killing is breaking down</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thomas (1)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Ward Thomas is associate professor in the Political Science Department of the College of the Holy Cross, and an associate at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. He is the author of The Ethics of Destruction: Norms and Force in International Relations (Cornell University Press, 2001). , The New Age of Assassination , 963- SAIS Review, Volume 25, Number 1, Winter-Spring 2005, pp. 27-39 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press DOI: 10.1353/sais.2005.0021 </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Considerable evidence …including targeted killings</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The idea of state sovereignty that would prohibit killings is on the decline – the paradigm has shifted to justify and permit independent use of force</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thomas (2)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Ward Thomas is associate professor in the Political Science Department of the College of the Holy Cross, and an associate at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. He is the author of The Ethics of Destruction: Norms and Force in International Relations (Cornell University Press, 2001). , The New Age of Assassination , 963- SAIS Review, Volume 25, Number 1, Winter-Spring 2005, pp. 27-39 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press DOI: 10.1353/sais.2005.0021 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">To explain assassination’s … consequences for their actions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Specifically – the War on Terror justifies use of force – that’s how we got Bin Laden</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thomas (4)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Ward Thomas is associate professor in the Political Science Department of the College of the Holy Cross, and an associate at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. He is the author of The Ethics of Destruction: Norms and Force in International Relations (Cornell University Press, 2001). , The New Age of Assassination , 963- SAIS Review, Volume 25, Number 1, Winter-Spring 2005, pp. 27-39 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press DOI: 10.1353/sais.2005.0021 )</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Finally, any restriction … **__increasingly justifiable.__**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">International law is disregarded except when it serves imperialist goals – means it’s co-opted to form norms that justify violence</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Douzinas (2)</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Costas, Professor of Law and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities at Birkbeck College, University of London “Human Rights and Empire: The political philosophy of cosmopolitanism”, 2007 pp.234-5 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The combination of … us into empire. </span>

<span class="Underline"> </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Obama administration has increased drones strikes and said they are legal</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Ari, U.S. Drone Strikes Are Justified, Legal Adviser Says, [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=125206000]] – March 26 2010 [AAK])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Obama administration … **__using lethal force__**.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">International law permits targeted killings</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thomas (5)</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Ward Thomas is associate professor in the Political Science Department of the College of the Holy Cross, and an associate at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. He is the author of The Ethics of Destruction: Norms and Force in International Relations (Cornell University Press, 2001). , The New Age of Assassination , 963- SAIS Review, Volume 25, Number 1, Winter-Spring 2005, pp. 27-39 (Article) Published by The Johns Hopkins University Press DOI: 10.1353/sais.2005.0021 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The second premise …  **__part of military operations.__** </span>

==Negative== 
New Nietzsche links

**Science is the worse form of the ascetic ideal – it attempts to locate truth in the lack of absolute truth and replace the meaning of life with nothingness**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette 96</span>__</span> (Paul, Prof of political theory/science at John Hopkins University, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. [AAK])
**__Science__**, however, **__is ...__**nothingness'.63

**Absolute knowledge is a farce – and even if it was possible we should forgo the possibility of absolute conceptions of an idea in favor of multiple perspective that better foster and understanding of a concept**
**__Nietzsche 1897__** (Friedrich, “On the Genealogy of Morality”, edited by
Keith Ansell-Pearson - Department of Philosophy @ University of Warwick, translated by
Carol Diethe, CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS – 2006, pp. 86-7 [AAK])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assuming that such a...</span> **__castrate the intellect__**? . . .


Der Derian Arg


**The affirmative impacts are rooted in the logocentric and exclusionary logic of security**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span> (James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html, [AAK])
No other ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a fearful sameness.</span>

Realism is circular and <span style="line-height: 24px;">securities</span> the international arena
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette 96</span>__</span> (Paul, Prof of political theory/science at John Hopkins University, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. [AAK])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The notion ...</span> **__and order.40__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impossible demand for security suppresses difference and fear – creating ressentiment towards life and outbreaks of violence in the name of protecting a false rationality – turning case</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span> (James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html, [AAK])
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The will to ...</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and new strength.</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org.ezproxy.baylor.edu/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note42|42]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Vote negative in rejection of the affirmative’s appeal to a totalizing notion of security. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span> (James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html, [AAK])
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif;">If security ... **__and indomitable.__**</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
States NC

Says agent's ability to take responsibility is necessary for morality, when we transfer it to the state that's immoral since it prevents us from willing the moral law of that action. 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]