[[toc]]
Cite Requests - Email: [[mailto:heballa7@gmail.com|heballa7@gmail.com]] (Chetan)
or [[mailto:somya.tirath@gmail.com|somya.tirath@gmail.com]] (Somya)
=***Aff= 

==Dispossessed Aff== 

===1AC - Wake Forest=== 

**Observation One: The Status Quo**

**The libertarian visions of Golden Age science fiction exert a strong influence on American culture and policy- left wing utopian hopes have receded in the popular imagination.**
**Smith 2002** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeremy Adam, managing editor of [[http://www.greatergoodmag.org/|Greater Good]] magazine, “Libertarians in Space”, May 20, [[http://www.alternet.org/story/13167/libertarians_in_space/?page=entire]] Accessed 9/3/11 GAL)</span>

During my junior year of high school, I was a libertarian. My primary influence was not Ayn Rand......everyone has to grow up sometime.


**This libertarian ideology is implicitly incompatible with space exploration- civilization can’t be sustained without mutual aid and interdependent systems.**
**Stross 8/2/10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Charlie, Hugo Award winning author, “Space Cadets”, [[http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2010/08/space-cadets.html]], Accessed 9/3/11 GAL]</span>

Attempts to discuss the prospects of human exploration ..... myth of the American frontier.


**The capitalist 'end of history' vision is bad - rather than accept that the current system is perfect, we must engage in "heterotopias" - an achievable dynamic utopia that can fix current problems with class, gender and race**
**Kilgore 3** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(De Witt Douglas, Teaches English @ Indiana Univ., Astrofuturism: Space, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space, p. 226-7 GAL)</span>

Tyson's criticisms and hopes.....developers of new worlds.


**This eternal projection of capitalism into the future is a denial of the challenge of historical time- the slogan “there is no alternative” is mindlessly repeated as the “end of history” is declared. This attempt to maintain the eternal present as the ideal of history ignores vast structural inequalities and ongoing genocidal wars, threatening human survival.**
**Meszaros 2008** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Istvan, professor emeritus @ U Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p. 21-24 Emphasis in original, GAL)</span>

The apologists of capital...........shall be only a bad memory.


**The sheer arrogance required to declare the present moment the end of history is mind-boggling- never before, in absolute figures, have violence, inequality, exclusion, famine, and extermination affected so many people on earth.**
**Pomeroy 2004**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Anne Fairchild, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religion Vice-President of the Stockton Federation of Teachers Co-Coordinator of the Radical Philosophy Association, “Marx and Whitehead: process, dialectics, and the critique of capitalism”, p. 163)</span>

Our “economy” is our system ....... to promote human life?


**Thus, we affirm the utopian possibilities latent in the resolution through the exploration of Urras and Anarres.**


**Observation Two: The Dispossessed**

**Ursula K. Le Guin’s novel //The Dispossessed// tells a story of Urras and Anarres, a double planet system. Urras is dominated by a competitive libertarian worldview. The Urrasti are obsessed with status, wealth, and power-- the society has descended into an insatiable quest for material possession in spite of the vast inequality and poverty plaguing the planet.**

**Anarres is a barren moon, colonized by those who have left Urras to escape the greed, war, and oppression. Here they have constructed a society without government, completely decentralized and founded on principles of mutual aid, altruism and self-sacrifice. There is no poverty on Anarres. Despite the scare resources the Anarresti have ensured that all are treated equally - no one will eat while the other starves.**

**//The Dispossessed// tells the story of Shevek, a brilliant Anarresti physicist who travels to Urras to develop a General Temporal Theory. Over the course of the novel, Shevek witnesses first hand how profit and the wish for power corrupt every person and every action – but he also realizes that both the Urrasti and Anarresti society have stagnated because of the walls built up between them.**

**Terra, Earth, is also represented in the novel, but only as a dead world spoiled by humanity, now governed by total centralization.**

**The story is a warning- Terra and Anarres are both possible futures for the United States. Anarres is a not a blueprint for a perfect static utopia, but offers the hope as an ongoing process of freedom and mutuality. However, Anarres cannot come to us- the United States must initiate the journey of exploration on its own.**
**Stillman 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Peter G. Stillman is Professor of Political Science at Vassar College “ The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed” – pg. 68-69, Chetan]</span>

In the face of those difficulties, The Dispossessed gives readers a warning..... and make the attempt.

**The Dispossessed disrupts the idea of time as a linear progression towards the “end of history”— the story of the past is never finally told and the future is never fully closed.**

**Only uniting past, present, and future can save either world. The wall built up between the real world of Urras and the utopia of Anarres prevents change in both societies- Anarres loses its connection with past history on Urras, and Urras loses the utopian hope represented by the possible future of Anarres.**
**Davis 2005** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Laurence, PhD in Politics @ Oxford, The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed, Ed. Davis and Stillman, p. 3-9 GAL]</span>

The Dispossessed is a utopia,.........the reason to go on changing.14



**Regardless of alternative solvency, you have an ethical obligation to attempt to transcend capitalism-- utopian thinking is key to the value of life**
**Marsh 95** (James L., Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 331-336 GAL)

However, such a conception of reason........it lies in not having the veil pierced.


===1AC - Milton (Most Recent)=== 

Everything's the same as above except for the addition of this card

**Capitalism is a non-generalizable condition- if everyone consumed at the rate of advanced capitalist states, the system would instantly collapse.**
**Meszaros 95** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Istvan, prof emeritus @ U of Sussex, “Beyond Capital” Pg. xv-xvi)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">If it is true, as they, **that ‘there is no alternative’……**be considered feasible and sound</span>






===2AC Framework=== 
**Counter-interpretation: exploration is a sustained examination of a theme**
**Freedictionary 8** [The Free Dictionary by Farlex, Princeton Univertysity, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/exploration]
exploration - a systematic consideration; "he called for a careful exploration of the consequences" consideration - the process of giving careful thought to something

**The Gap Disad - Policymakers ignore the influence of Sci-Fi at their own peril- neglecting the political questions about the present raised by speculation about the future undermines any future space policy.**
**Delgado 10** (Laura M., Space Policy Institute @ GWU, 10/19, “A Popcorn-bred Perspective of Space Commercialization” http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/101019-blog-popcorn-perspective-space-commercialization.html Accessed 9/7/11 GAL)
Even as the space policy community seems ....... well, who can blame her?

**Counter-interpretation – the USFG is not just centralized bureaucracy it includes citizen participation and deliberative democracy**

**We are the government – it’s not a distant foreign body**
**Raney 10** [Gary Raney – Ada County Sherriff, “ Ada County Sheriff Gary Raney Response to Inquiry regarding Oathkeepers”, October 25th, 2010, http://wearechangeidaho.org/CategoryArticles.php?id=1]
First premise:“They” – the federal government – are not a distant body beyond our control.We are a republic and we are the federal governmentby the power of our vote.It is disingenuous for people to talk about the government as something foreign, like an enemy.In my opinion, it is our general apathy as voters that, by an omission of a vote, allow our government to do things we don’t want them to do.

**Double Bind -**
**A. Their fiat-based model for demands on the state is bad- they have no actual voice in the formation of policy**
**Herod** 1(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)
Let's take another example. Russell Mokhiber and Robert Weissman, otherwise very sensible writers, complain that "bombing a desperately poor country under the yoke of a repressive regime is a wrongheaded response.....they could begin to see another way.

**B. Even if they are right about their interpretation – we can still win that our aff is good for politics because politicians should contemplate the themes in the science fiction and the Dispossessed**
**Delgado 10** (Laura, M.A. @ Space Policy Institute GWU, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SPACE 2010 Conference & Exposition, “The Commercialization of Space in Science Fiction Movies: The Key to Sustainability or the Road to a Capitalist Dystopia?”, p. 8-9 GAL)
After discussing these two trends of thought – one revealed in space science fiction movies.....the debate may already show some initial points of encounter.

**Counter-interpretation: the resolution is a science fiction text – our aff is the only way to engage in future speculations**
**Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed.**
**Meszaros 89** (Istvan, likes Marx not Adam Smith. The Power of Ideology, p 232-234 GAL)
Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality .....which no social theory or philosophy can escape.


===2AC - Cap Bad=== 

**1. Mostly extending some 1ac bidness**

**2. Even if they win that cap is good for some, 5/6ths of humanity can’t benefit from it**
**DeSoto 0** (Hernando, president of the institute for liberty and democracy, “The Mystery of Capital: why capitalism triumphs in the West and fails everywhere else” Pg. 5-8 JF)

In this book I intend to demonstrate that.....their domestic capitalism work.


**3. Capitalism causes genocide and nuclear war**
**Internationalist Perspective 2k** - “Capitalism and Genocide,” http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html

Mass death, and genocide, the deliberate and systematic extermination of whole groups......World War I: socialism or barbarism.



==Lunar Quarantine Aff== 

Full text is on Ofir Stolarski and Poonam Dalwadi's wiki

===1AC=== 

__**Contention 1 is Inherency**__

**A Mars Sample Return mission is inevitable - NASA’s cooperation with the ESA will send the Aurora mission to Mars in 2018**
**LaunchBase 11** [“Aurora Programme Information”, September 27th, 2011, http://www.launchbase.net/aurora_programme/encyclopedia.htm, Chetan]

In recent years ……future planetary exploration[4].


**NASA is contracting the re-entry mission now – however its containment system doesn’t quarantine or sterilize the soil**
**Aurora Flight Sciences 11** [“Aurora Flight Sciences Wins NASA Contract for a Mars Orbiting Sample Retrieval External Orbit Capture (MOSR/EXOCAP)”, March 21st, 2011, http://www.aurora.aero/Communications/Item.aspx?id=apr-270, Chetan]

Cambridge, MA, March 21, 2011 – The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has awarded Aurora Flight …..for later this decade.



**Plan: The United States federal government should construct a lunar scientific outpost using the DIRECT launch mechanism.**


__**Advantage 1 is Mars Sample Return**__

**The current plan for MSR return is a Catcher's Mitt strategy to crash land the vehicle – risking planetary contamination**
**DiGregorio 1** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The Quarantine And Certification Of Martian Samples”, May 31st, 2001, http://www.spacedaily.com/news/mars-life-01g.html, Chetan]

NASA's sole contender ……things can and do go wrong.


**Mars samples are way too dangerous to feel safe – they must be quarantined and analyzed for potential microbial life and diseases**
**DiGregorio 1** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The dilemma of Mars sample return”, June 2001, http://pubs.acs.org/subscribe/journals/ci/31/special/digreg/08digregorio.html, Chetan]


Several other notable scientists …..whether life ever arose on Mars.

**The impact is the wipe-out of Earth – we have no defenses against potential space microbes**
**Butler 7** [Jeb, “Unearthly Microbes and the Laws Designed to Resist Them” - 41 Ga. L. Rev. 1355, Summer 2007 (lexis), Chetan]

a. Back Contamination…….a second exposure could prove deadly.


**AND - The MSR spacecraft will be powered by RTGs – re-entry accident or crash landing risks the death of millions**
**Rodrigue 2** [Christine M. Rodrigue - Professor and Chair Department of Geography California State University, “Emerging Risk Assessment and Management Controversies in the Mars Sample Return”, July 2002, http://www.csulb.edu/~rodrigue/bldrmars.html, Chetan]

For a number of years, I have investigated ….. and Nuclear Power in Space (no date).


**A lunar quarantine facility solves**
**DiGregorio 6** [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “A Planetary Quarantine Laboratory On The Moon” (pg. 9), Chetan]

In consideration of all …..to the Moon.

__**Advantage 2 is Lunar Science**__

**Global warming is real and undeniable, isolated incidents of cold spells don’t speak to the trend of climate change**
**Jones 10** [Jenny, Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs, “NOAA Offers Extensive Proof of Global Warming”, Civil Engineering (08857024); Sep2010, Vol. 80 Issue 9, p36-36, 1p, Chetan]

Global warming is undeniable…… following a 30-year trend.

**Two internal links -**

**First, studying lunar regolith allows us to read ‘the solar record’ – letting us understand how climate change happens on Earth and what impact the Sun has on global warming**
**Spudis 11** [Paul Spudis is a Senior Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, has a Masters Degree from Brown Univeristy in Planetary Geology. “The Moon’s Role in Climate Science”, March 22nd, 2011, http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2011/03/the-moons-role-in-climate-science/, Chetan]

A recent article about the role…… waits for us on the Moon.


**AND – the Moon is the perfect laboratory for isolating the solar effect on terrestrial warming – predicting future climate change necessitiates an understanding of solar radiation**
**Huang and Pollack 10** [Shaopeng and Henry N. - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “The Moon - A Witness to the Anthropogenic Effect of Global Warming on Earth”, July 23rd, 2010, http://www.geo.lsa.umich.edu/~shaopeng/msgc01-poster.pdf, Chetan]

It is widely believed ……temperature versus depth.


**Second, a climate observatory on the Moon gives us the observation angle to compare solar and terrestrial radiation**
**Huang 8** [Shaopeng - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “Surface temperatures at the nearside of the Moon as a record of the radiation budget of Earth’s climate system”, Advances in Space Research Volume 41, Issue 11, 2008, Pages 1853-1860, Chetan]

Understanding the balance between ……of terrestrial climate change.


**These views of the Earth are critical to useful climate models**
**Schmitt 10** [Dr. Harrison Schmitt is a former astronaut. He received a bachelor of science degree in science from the California Institute of Technology, a doctorate in geology from Harvard University and was the project chief at the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Center for lunar field geological methods and participated in photo and telescopic mapping of the Moon. “Observations Necessary for Useful Global Climate Models” – White Paper submitted to NASA, http://www.lpi.usra.edu/decadal/leag/DecadalClimate.pdf, Chetan]

Critical differences exist between scientists ……whether warming or cooling.


**AND - Cap and trade legislation is inevitable – changing attitudes toward climate change**
**Murray 8** [James, “Despite Senate defeat, US cap-and-trade hailed as "inevitable"”, June 9th, 2008,http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1802154/despite-senate-defeat-us-cap-trade-hailed-inevitable, Chetan]

The bill was defeated …..pollution is inevitable."



**However, an incomplete understanding of warming, lack of assessment data and accurate models are hurting its chances**
**Lewis et al. 10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf, Chetan]

Climate change is a global problem….respond to the climate


**Cap and trade is by and large the most effective way to cap emissions and solve warming**
**Pew 9** [The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is a non-profit, non-partisan, independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. “Climate Change 101 Cap and Trade”, January 2009, http://www.pewclimate.org/docUploads/Climate101-CapTrade-Jan09.pdf, Chetan]

Cap-and-trade……GHG reduction program.


**Data is key – US is essential for global climate consensus**
**Lewis et al. 10** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]

Slowly, painfully, we are developing……rumored and uncertain landmarks.


**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**
**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]

Finally, there is one major existential threat…..but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.


__**Contention 2 is Solvency**__

**DIRECT’s utilization of Shuttle infrastructure reduces launch time, requires only two launches, and will have humans on the Moon within the decade**
**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 234), Chetan]

DIRECT architecture advantages …..being even further delayed.


**The Jupiter launch systems have more than enough launch capacity for a lunar base**
**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (221-222), Chetan]

Jupiter 120 and Jupiter 232 …….IMLEO requirement by 40 tonnes!


**Lunar base in the South Pole is optimal – resolves most issues with human settlement**
**Seedhouse 9** [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (124-125), Chetan]

The site of NASA's outpost…..recent radar data.


**Lastly, policy analysis should precede discourse—it’s the most effective way to challenge power.**
Jill **Taft-Kaufman 95**, Professor in the Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts at Central Michigan University, 1995 (“Other ways: Postmodernism and performance praxis,” The Southern Communication Journal, Volume 60, Issue 3, Spring)

If the lack of consistency…..the budgets that fuel them.

===Michigan Plan Text=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should use the DIRECT launch mechanism to construct a lunar scientific outpost which includes a quarantine facility which will receive any future Mars sample return missions.**

===2AC - Politics Link Turns=== 
**Congressional support overwhelms opposition to spending**
**Raju and Bresnahan, 11** (4/20/11, Manu Raju and John Bresnahan, Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html)

For all the rhetoric about cutting government spending, NASA’s space mission remains sacred in Congress….. NASA no longer was on the same page.

**Turn – the public is terrified of a Mars sample mission**
**Joyce et al 9** [Sarah Joyce, Chantal Ferguson, Philip Weinstein <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">∗</span> School of Population Health, University of Western Australia, “ Public support for Mars missions: The importance of informing the next generation”, Acta Astronautica; Apr2009, Vol. 64 Issue 7/8, p718-723, 6p, Chetan]
MSR = Mars Sample Return

3.4. Concerns regarding MSR Respondents …..to protect Earth (56.9% vs. 48.7%; p = 0.000).


**Public unpopularity cripples the agenda and outweighs popularity**
**Edwards 97** [George C. Texas A&M Polisci Prof, Congress and the Presidency, Volume 25, number 2, pg 121]

Widespread support should….. he loses crucial “leeway.”





=***Neg= 

==Social Justice Disad== 
===1NC=== 
**Funding for the plan is an unjust use of resources. The affirmative’s choice to fund space programs trades off directly with funding for social services – leaving those homeless and starved helpless**
**Yost 10** [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]]</span>]

The White House has announced plans to host a conference in Florida on April 15….. planting flags on planets


**This failure of prioritization creates social alienation, a limiting of political solutions and options, and the possibility of total annihilation—we need to focus on social safety nets, or extinction is inevitable. Every instance of resistance is key.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Duarte 5</span>** [Andre, Prof of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Parana Curitiba, Brazil. “Biolopitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span>]

Towards the notion of biopolitics in Arendt’s thought… of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.

===2NC - Social Justice=== 
**Ensuring that every human has the bare necessities is the biggest moral question – must be a prerequisite**
**Pogge 02**, Thomas Pogge, Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University, World Poverty and Human Rights, November 2002, pages 50-51, MC

Acceptance of such a universal… preeminent moral task of our age.




==Ozone Disad== 

===1NC=== 
**Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable**
**Ross et. al. 9** (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG

The global market for rocket launches ……could become significant.

**Ozone depletion means extinction**
**Festive Earth Society, 8** (February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html, JM)

The ozone layer is essential for human life. …….allows life, as we know it, to exist

===2NC - Turns Case=== 
**Mass ozone depletion turns the case – leads to a ban on space travel**
**Foust 9** – Editor of Space Review Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, 6-15-2009, “Space and (or versus) the environment,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1

In an op-ed in last week’s issue of Space News……restrictive regulation is high.”


**Ozone depletion leads to regulations that collapse the space industry – turn the affirmative**
**Page 9** Lewis Page, Register Space Staff, 4-1-2009, “Space launches could be capped to save ozone layer,” The Register, pg. A6

Toohey's co-authors ………how different rocket types affect the ozone layer."

===2NC - Food Impact=== 

**UV damages crop yield threatening global food supply**
**United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) June 23, 2011,** Ozone - Good Up High Bad Nearby, http://www.epa.gov/oar/oaqps/gooduphigh/good.html#4

Ozone depletion …….supplies from the oceans.

**Famine kills half the Earth**
**Brown 05** [Founder and President Earth Policy Institute (Lester R.;) 2/7 "Falling Water Tables 'could hit food supply'" http://www.peopleandplanet.net/doc.php?id=2424§ion=3]

Many Americans see terrorism …….is the overriding concern.




===2NC - Uniqueness=== 

**Current launch rates wont affect the ozone – the plan pushes emissionsover the brink and kills the ozone**
**Ross et. al. 9** (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, Volume 7, Issue 1 January 2009 , pages 50 – 82, informaworld) JPG

Combustion emissions from rocket launches…… no rocket engine is perfectly “green” in this sense.
===ORS Link=== 

**Link magnifier- create additional space opportunities, increasing launches**
**Dubie, ’11** (Brian, Vermont lieutenant governor and chair of the Aerospace States Association, “Importance of maintaining Affordable and Assured Space Power”, Aerosapce States Assocation, 4/3/2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://aerostates.org/wp-content/uploads/Resolution_109-104.pdf]]</span>, LH)
WHEREAS, at a time….and the U.S. space workforce;

**Plan lowers launch costs**
**Magnuson 11** (Stew Magnuson, staff writer. Air Force Embraces Small Satellites As Budget Outlook Grows Dim, National Defense. July 2011.NP.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/July/Pages/AirForceEmbracesSmallSatellitesAsBudgetOutlookGrowsDim.aspx]]</span> DM)

While operationally responsive space……according to industry publication Space News.

===NEO Link=== 

**All space-based survey telescopes need launches**
**Griggs 09** – CNN staff writer (12/14/09, CNN, NASA launches infrared telescope to scan entire sky, http://articles.cnn.com/2009-12-14/tech/wise.spacecraft.launch_1_wide-field-infrared-survey-explorer-galaxies-asteroids?_s=PM:TECH, EA]

NASA launched a new…….of a booster steering engine.


==Cap K== 

===1NC=== 
**The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism**
**Dickens 10** (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] AD: 6-29-11, jam)

The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside….. companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

**The search for outer spatial fixes to capitalism causes Star Wars- whole societies will be obliterated**
**Dickens and Ormrod 7** (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 63-64, jam)

Outer spatial fixes: for war or peace? …….accumulation may be started.

**Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations**
**Herod 2004** (James, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])

It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, a strategy for destroying capitalism…. possibly even to extinction.

==Blindness K== 

**“Blind” metaphors always exploit and diminish the experiences of those who live it**
**Gallagher ‘6** [Deborah, PhD – College of Education – UNI, “On Using Blindness as Metaphor and Difficult Questions: A Response to Ben-Moshe,” Disability Studies Quarterly, v26, #2, [[http://www.dsq-sds.org/article/view/690/867]]]

Blindness cannot be used as a signifier…..the people who experience, blindness.


**Voting Issue – Ableist Speech strengthens oppression and destroys the purposes of public debate – the impacts trump the other warrants in their arguments**
**Wheelchair Dancer**, 4/28/**8** (“On Making Argument: Disability and Language”, http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 2/10/11 GAL)

If you are feeling a little bit of resistance….speak out in the first place.

===2NC - Rejection=== 

**Preemptively, their censorship arguments and claims that language is a trivial concern are wrong- rejecting ableist speech has tremendous emancipatory potential**
**Tremain 97** (Shelley, Book Review: The Rejected Body by Susan Wendell, Hypatia, Vol 12, No 2, Spring, p. 222-3 GAL)

I take exception, nonetheless…..oppressive discursive practices.


==Heg Bad== 

===Defense=== 

**Heg doesn’t solve war**
Christopher **Preble 10** (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]</span>

Most in Washington still…..country pick up the tab.

**No relationship between US capabilities and peace**
**Fettweis 10 –** Professor of national security affairs @ U.S. Naval War College. [Christopher J. Fettweis, “Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy,” Survival, Volume 52,
Issue 2 April 2010 , pages 59 – 82//informaworld]

One potential…… expenditure are unrelated.


**Heg doesn’t solve war – US lacks influence**
**Mastanduno 9** (Michael, Professor of Government at Dartmouth, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco,)

During the cold……getting its own way.

===1NC - Unsustainable=== 

**Heg is unsustainable – rising powers, overstretch and loss of economic power**
**Layne 11** [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164, Chetan]

In this article I challenge Brooks and Wohlforth. …..the outlines of which already are visible.


===2NC - Unsustainable=== 

**India and China are now overtaking US power – shift in economic growth**
**Layne 11** [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]

There is increasing ……Thompson 2009).


**China’s economic influence and regional alliances ensure our foreign policy goals are obstructed**
**Rachman 11**, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy, “ Think Again: American Decline,” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline]], KHaze

"We've Heard All This About American Decline Before." …….That is just a taste of things to come.

**Imperial overstretch drains resources and tanks international credibility – this over-extension makes heg decline impossible to overcome – these constraints empower rivals which exacerbates our overreach**
**Layne 11** [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]

Today, the United States is saddled with the responsibility……This is the geopolitical reality which the United States likely will confront in the next two decades.


**Economic decline SEVERLY handicaps US clout by destroying the power of the dollar and proving to other countries that the US is not capable of supporting the global economy**
**Layne 11** [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]

The meltdown’s real significance ….domestic political pressure to make steep cuts in defence spending is likely to increase.

**The dollar’s vunerability sucks big time because China’s going to bail on it**
**Layne 11** [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]

Concerns about the ……Wines 2010).

===Heg Bad - Terrorism=== 

**Primacy inevitably results in more terror attacks against the US.**
Christopher **Layne 7**, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007["The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 69-70]

Terrorism: ….like at Qaeda.

Morgan/Speice/Sid-Ahmed



===Heg Bad - Prolif=== 

**1. Primacy spurs proliferation among non-state and rogue state actors.**
**Steven Weber et al 07**, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California-Berkeley, et al., with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, 2007 [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premiere, p. 51-52]

The world is paying a heavy price …..it is fast becoming a necessity.


Utgoff

====A2: Heg Solves==== 

**Heg forces other nations to acquire nukes and undercuts US influence- turns case**
**Maddock 10** (Shane J, PhD from the University of Connecticut in US history and teacher at Stonehill College, author of multiple books concerning American Foreign Relations, “Nuclear Apartheid”, The University of North Carolina Press, Print)

Throughout the nuclear age, the United States….. power in the international system.

=***Strats= 
==Wake Forest== 
===Round 2 - Neg vs Westminster (Asteroids)=== 
1NC: Cap K, Ozone Disad, Social Justice Disad, ESA CP, Case
2NC: Ozone Disad, Social Justice and Case
1NR: Cap
2NR: Launch Disad, Case

===Round 3 - Neg vs Cathedral Prep (JWST)=== 
1NC: T-Human, Euclid CP, Social Justice, Ozone DA, Cap, Case
2NC: Euclid, Social Justice, Case
1NR: Ozone DA and Cap
2NR: Euclid CP, Case

===Round 6 - Neg vs River Hill (ORS)=== 
1NC: T-Vagueness, Ozone Disad, Weaponization Disad, Cap K, Case
2NC: Ozone and Case
1NR: Cap
2NR: Ozone and Case