[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC – Plan</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States federal government should implement a defensive space strategy that emphasizes satellite hardening, replacement, redundancy, stealth and situational awareness.</span>**

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention One Hegemony</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Our Space Assets are vulnerable – ASAT tests, debris, congestion and arms race</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Clapper and Gates, 2011 – Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [U.S. National Security Space Strategy—Unclassified Summary,’’ January ,http://www.defense.gov/home/features/2011/0111_nsss/docs/NationalSecuritySpaceStrategyUnclassifiedSummary_Jan2011.pd</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space is vital to U.S. national … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">civil and commercial sectors depend.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First -our military depends on space assets</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Walsh 2007 - Georgetown University Law Center</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [Frank M. Associate, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP Journal of Air Law and Commerce “forging a diplomatic shield for american satellites: the case for reevaluating the 2006 national space policy in light of a chinese anti-satellite system” Fall, 7/12/11, Lexis] </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Satellites serve as the foundation … bring down a </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">seemingly unstoppable warrior.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Second - Vulnerable space assets cause rising powers to challenge our hegemony.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Tellis 2007 - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]], accessed 7-14]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The strategic logic of Chinese … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">] rise, particularly through strategically encircling it.25</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Third – if our satellites are vulnerable, we will not be able to deploy forward naval forces</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cynamon 9 Former Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [Charles, "Defending America's Interest In Space" February 12 2009, Acsessed July 13, 2011 http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada539893.pdf] ] </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Without a doubt the United States … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">the overall strategic environment discussion.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Forward deployment is key to global hegemony and preventing escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Johnson, 2009, Chief of Naval Operations</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [Admiral Jay L., & General Charles C. Krulak, Commandant of the Marine Corps, August 17, “Forward presence essential to American interests” <http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr.asp?id=274> Web. Acc. 07/15/2011]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ome argue that the forward … conflict. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">This is forward presence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US Hegemony solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict a multipolar or offshore balancing role is a fantasy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)</span>
Finally, there is the United … <span class="Underline">will provide an easier path</span>.
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention Two - China </span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chinese tests have sparked a global arms race satellites are vulnerable to other countries ASATs or cyber terrorists </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Denmark 2010 - Fellow with the Center for a New American Security</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [By Abraham M. and Dr. James Mulvenon CNAS, Jan, Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS%20Contested]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> %20Commons%20Capstone_0.pdf Accessed Jun 21]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In an environment where all … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">of terrorism in zero gravity.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Defensive space measure can increase deterrence while avoiding a destabilizing arms race. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, former assistant director for national security at the White House</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Bruce W., “Testimony of Bruce W. MacDonald”, Council of Foreign Affairs, Before the Strategic Forces Subcommittee and House Armed Services Committee, March 18, [[http://www.cfr.org/china/space-security/p18862]], Accessed July 12 2011]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Our space assets are exposed … </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">long as this is true.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China’s rise is not peaceful- we need to secure ourselves against them</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foreign Policy 2011 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"><</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Posted By Dan Blumenthal, Mark Stokes, Michael Mazza, Tuesday, September 6, 2011 - 1:51 PM, Avoiding Armageddon with China></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is good news that … ). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China Exploits international law to balance against the US</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bellflower 2010, instructor at the Advanced Space Operations School </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Air Force Judge Advocate General School. The Air Force Law Review. The influence of law on command of space name: major john w. Bellflower Lexis Accessed June 21, 2011]</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The lack of transparency in … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">activities in the space domain.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even if they win no China threat, a failure to harden satellites breeds paranoia that causes a US first strike</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Tellis, 7 –</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2007, Ashley, “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> successful </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chinese ASAT … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">complications of accidents and misperception.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perceived vulnerability will prompt China to challenge the US over Tiawan </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dillon, 2008 – </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Naval Postgraduate School [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 **[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]** Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">On January 11, 2007, China destroyed a l</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">ow </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… been iterated every successive year</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">.9</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That guarantees escalation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald 8</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">—</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">former assistant director for … </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">address defensive and offensive measures</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">.15</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taiwan conflict leads to nuclear Armageddon </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Strait Times 2</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">k</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(June 25, “Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-… </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">puts sovereignty above everything else</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>__
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Miscalculation in Space Escalates to full scale war – there is no control of space war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Krepon, 2003 – president of the Henry Stimson Center</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">than in dominance</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> and compellance. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No self-fulfilling prophecy- violent response is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foreign Policy 2011 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"><</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Posted By Dan Blumenthal, Mark Stokes, Michael Mazza, Tuesday, September 6, 2011 - 1:51 PM, Avoiding Armageddon with China></span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The idea of a self-fulfilling … </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">fear, would lead to Armageddon</span>__**

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Solvency</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space situational awareness is critical to defending Taiwan – </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ahearn 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Reporter for Defense Daily</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Dave, 5/30, Defense Daily, Doeing Bids for Space Situational Awareness Contract, Lexis Nexis, 7/13/11.]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SASSA</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and other threat detection … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">is where SASSA would help.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space militarization does not deny others access to space - won’t be perceived as weponization </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald 8 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">— </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">former assistant director for national security at the White House.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]]</span>, accessed 7-12-11</span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many nations benefit from space … any evolving space-weaponization architecture.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space Situational awareness is critical to preventing miscalc – it identifies unintentional incidents </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cartwright 11 - </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">vice Chair Joint Chiefs of Staff [General James, center for strategic and international studies (csis) the national security space strategy: implications for the department of defense FEBRUARY 16, 2011http://csis.org/files/attachments/110216_spacestrategy_transcript.pdf Accessed July 12]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">GEN. CARTWRIGHT: The concept of … security issues are better managed.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hardening Solves solar flares</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Odenwald, 2005</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">these problems were first uncovered. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hardening, stealth and redundancy reduce satellite vulnerability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Frey 2008, graduate of Squadron Officer School,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [former defender of the Airforce in lawsuits as the chief of labor law and served as a chief of claims, legal assistance, and civil law at Patrick AFB, Florida, Defense of US Space Assets: A Legal Perspective. Air And Space Power Journal, Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 75-86. Winter 2008, Proquest ]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">several possibilities for reducing … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">suddenly unavailable to war fighters.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Defensive protections don’t cause an arms race –there is an economic limit to an arms race and deterrence by denial makes ASATs ineffective</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Lastly, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">one </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">very popular</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> argument … </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">motivation to resort to ASATs.</span>__
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reconstitution is critical to hegemony – crippled satellites undermine power projection – we are vulnerable now</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">All aspects of American power … and possibly even world economy.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Improving satellite defenses deters attacks – it denies the benefits of pre-emption</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sheldon 08, - Fellow at the Marshall Institute </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]], Accessed July 14 2011]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There are more concrete measures … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">are being used in orbit.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Emphasis on resilience and redundancy … </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">peacetime __from pursuing counterspace capabilities.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Protection of US space assets deters attacks because it mitigates asymmetrical vulnerability.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lynn, 2011 – Deputy Secretary of State </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[William J. Lynn, III A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment The Washington Quarterly SUMMER http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Third, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">we need to make … vital space capabilities from attack.</span>__









=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]