**Affirmative: [[mailto:ethanmatlin@gmail.com|ethanmatlin@gmail.com]]**
**Negative: [[mailto:tommyd4410@gmail.com|tommyd4410@gmail.com]]**
**Someone to talk to: [[mailto:derekkchoi@gmail.com|derekkchoi@gmail.com]]**


[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Affirmative Notes== 

//__**Every tournament until Michigan:**__//
Economy and Hegemony

__//**From Michigan to Berkeley**//__:
We added a separate disease advantage on the economy flow at Michigan (it's only two short cards, so we decided it didn't deserve its own flow)

**__//Berkeley://__**
**Rounds 1 and 3:** Economy (with disease) and Heg
**Berkeley round 5:** Economy (short with disease), broke Russia and India

//__**Districts:**__//
**All Rounds:** Russia, Heg, Econ (with disease)

//__**ICTA:**__//
**Round 2:** Russia, Econ (with disease), Heg
**Round 4:** Russia, Econ (with disease), broke Asteroids
**Quarters:** Russia, Econ (Short), broke Military
**Semis:** Russia, Asteroids, broke GPS.
**Finals:** Tommy danced for 8 minutes to "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun", while Ethan wrote his condo bad block. The impact was Anthropocentric Femonormism. Don't bother looking for answers: the lit about this can only be found in ancient Mongolian scriptures. In the 2ac, Ethan boldly kicked the aff and read his newly-minted condo bad block. In the 1ar, Tommy valiantly danced some more and tried to bring back the aff, but it was in vain; the Judges just wouldn't buy it for some reason. In the 2ar, Ethan re-read his condo block from the 2ac, but had to stop 3 minutes early.

**__GMDC (Iowa City West):__**
**Round 1:** Heg, Econ, Russia.
**Round 4:** Heg, Econ, Russia
**Round 6:** Econ, Russia, broke UAVs
**Semis:** We all know that Derek Choi is a huge K hack, so the 1ac only read framework (no advantages). Despite not reading a plan, Natalie got up and read 10 off and then 7 minutes of case in the 1nc (like normal). Surprisingly, none of these were that "you don't meet your framework". Tommy went for Daoism in the 1ar, but Ethan only believes in substantive arguments so the 2ar was no neg fiat.
**Finals:** Derek and Natalie beat us in Semis (apparently, the judges believed we needed to read a plan) so we didn't debate.

==Plan Texts== 

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Most recent:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The United States federal government should deploy 5 kilowatt, ground based lasers to decrease space debris. </span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"><--now you can't run the hyphen PIC anymore!!</span>//


The United States federal government should deploy 5 kilowatt, ground-based lasers to decrease space debris.


**The United States federal government should deploy ground-based lasers to decrease space debris.**
==Inherency== 

**Contention one is inherency**
**We have reached a __tipping point__ – … __reactions__ and will destroy satellites**
**Carreau 12/1/11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Efforts over the past two … debris from another country’s spacecraft. </span>
**Miniscule space debris short circuits satellites even without collisions**
**Natalie 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Pusey, Natalie, Juris Doctor candidate at the University of Colorado Law School, 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 425, Spring, 2010)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space debris causes a variety of … </span>__obscure ground-based astronomical observation.__

**It also destroys and prevent satellite communications**
**Jaggard 10 (**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Victoria Jaggard, National Geographic News Writer, 3-28-2010, “Tiny Solar Sail Pitched to Clean Up Space Junk,” National Geographic, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2010/03/28/tiny_solar_sail_pitched_to_cle/]]</span>)</span>

__Collisions with even a small speck … from satellites surrounded by junk.__


**No disads – 30 new NASA projects … funded __including__ debris air guns**
**VOA 8/9/11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Voice of America, “Visionary Ideas Could Transform Future NASA Missions” Lexis)</span>
__NASA__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the U.S. space agency, </span>__has …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">them into a future space mission.</span>

**We can track most small debris now but we don’t have the capability to deal with them**
**NRC 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> National Research Council “Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA's Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs” pdf </span>
__Orbital debris__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and meteoroids </span>__less …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the satellite catalog is about 1 m.</span>


==Economy (Short)== 

**Contention two is the economy**

**Global economy will slow but recession is unlikely**
**RN, 10/16**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ria Novsti, “G20 Fincance Ministers Say No Imminent Threat of Recession”, 10/16/2011, en.ria.ru/world/20111016/167730930.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">G20</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">finance ministers, who … the effects of the 2008-2009 crisis.</span>

**There are three internal links**

**Space debris knocks out satellites that are vital to global banking, power grids, and GPS**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>. </span>
__There are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> currently </span>__hundreds of … interrupt electric power grids__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>

**Banking is vital to growth – multiple experts conclude it’s reverse-causal and affects every sector**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Pierre </span>**Monnin &**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Terhi </span>**Jokipii, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f]]</span>, p. 3-4. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The increased incidence of banking … to further improve economic forecasts.</span>

**GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D – they’d all face SUBSTANTIAL hits**
**Pham, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf)</span>
__The commercial stakes are high__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. … (consumer oriented) or military users. </span>

**No replacement for GPS—alternatives are not as accurate and steel frames distort.**
**IBT 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> International Business Tech “Technology could back up GPS, defeat jammers” http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Technology+Could+Back+Up+GPS,+Defeat+Jammers.-a0251229112</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">*cites Bob Cockshott, organizer of the conference and location and timing program director for Digital Systems</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, despite its effectiveness, he … is a viable alternative in a pinch.</span>


**Independently, satellites are vital to halting an H5N1 pandemic**
**Harmon, ‘9 –** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks” 8/24, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rather than searching for weird … really </span>__remain isolated__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," he says.</span>

**Flu pandemic outweighs on certainty, size and intervening actors**
**Zakaria, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]</span>. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A </span>__flu pandemic is the … exists for today's deadliest threat.__

**Their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support – global economic crises triggers global war**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>


==__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Economy (Long)</span>__== 

Contention two is the economy

Global economy will slow but recession is unlikely
RN, 10/16**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ria Novsti, “G20 Fincance Ministers Say No Imminent Threat of Recession”, 10/16/2011, en.ria.ru/world/20111016/167730930.html)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">G20</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">finance ministers, who … the effects of the 2008-2009 crisis.</span>**

There are three internal links

First is BANKING – Space debris knocks out satellites that are vital to global banking and power grids
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>**
**__There are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> currently </span>__hundreds of … interrupt electric power grids__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Logsdon 2001). </span>**

Banking is vital to growth – multiple experts conclude it’s reverse-causal and affects every sector
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Pierre </span>**Monnin &**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Terhi </span>**Jokipii, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Swiss National Bank, Financial Market Analysis and Financial Stability analysts. “The Impact of Banking Sector Stability on the Real Economy,” June, [[http://www.ecb.int/events/conferences/shared/pdf/cfs/monnin.pdf?bb16a0e5bec85708efdb7ff480cd5a7f]], p. 3-4. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The increased incidence of banking … to further improve economic forecasts.</span>**

Second is GPS – GPS is vital to economic leadership, innovation, jobs and R&D – they’d all face SUBSTANTIAL hits
Pham, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Economics Ph.D. @ George Washington University – Nam D., June, “The Economic Benefits of Commercial GPS Use in the U.S. and The Costs of Potential Disruption” http://www.saveourgps.org/pdf/GPS-Report-June-22-2011.pdf)</span>**
**__The commercial stakes are high__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. … (consumer oriented) or military users. </span>**

No replacement for GPS—alternatives are not as accurate and steel frames distort.
IBT 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> International Business Tech “Technology could back up GPS, defeat jammers” http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Technology+Could+Back+Up+GPS,+Defeat+Jammers.-a0251229112</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">*cites Bob Cockshott, organizer of the conference and location and timing program director for Digital Systems</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, despite its effectiveness, he … is a viable alternative in a pinch.</span>**



THIRD is the SPACE INDUSTRY –

One major debris collision is enough to inspire panic and causes space operators to pull out of the market – the economic impact is incalculable
Space Daily, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (August 31, 2009, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/Space_Debris_Problem_Solved_999.html]], Space Daily)</span>**
**__Upper stages must vent tanks … even calculable.__ <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is scary!</span>**

The satellite industry is critical – it’s key to jobs and global commerce – blips will be felt globally
Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Fifty years after their introduction, </span>__… to reverberate throughout multiple nations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**Independently, satellites are vital to halting an H5N1 pandemic**
**Harmon, ‘9 –** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Katherine, News Reporter @ Scientific American “Satellites Used to Predict Infectious Disease Outbreaks” 8/24, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/author.cfm?id=1822]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rather than searching for weird … really </span><span class="Underline">remain isolated</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," he says.</span>

**Flu pandemic outweighs on certainty, size and intervening actors**
**Zakaria, ‘5**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A </span><span class="Underline">flu pandemic is the … exists for today's deadliest threat.</span>

**Economic decline causes all conflicts to escalate – terrorism, proliferation, resource conflicts and nuclear wars**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Causes terror/asymmetrical buildup Low intensity </span><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 10.6667px;">à</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> high intensity Proximity-based accidental launch</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Resource wars Protectionism</span>
**Harris and Burrows,’9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Mathew = Counselor of the U.S. National Intelligence Council and Jennifer = Member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span>__a more dog-eat-dog world.__

**Their defense doesn’t have nearly the same statistical support – global economic crises triggers global war**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

== == 
==Military== 

**Debris collision will collapse the military – immediately invites global aggression and war**

**Imburgia 11** (Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USA, Joseph Imburgia, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May, 2011)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These gloomy prognostications about the … </span>__imperiled, if not forever lost__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.172</span>



**And hegemony ensures coalition building and deters new threats – the alternative is global war**

**Zhang and Shi 11** (Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Lin Shi is from Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” 1/21/11, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean … </span>__devoid of unrivalled US primacy.__



**Nationalism makes conflict likely to escalate – only heg solves**

Kagan 07 (Robert, Senior Associate – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History: International Rivalry and American Leadership”, Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The jostling for status and … </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">back in</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> under unfavorable circumstances. </span>





**These satellites are uniquely key to global military mobility, operational efficiency, and meteorology**

**Conathan 11** — Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, former staff member on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation’s Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, holds an M.A. in Marine Affairs from the University of Rhode Island, 2011 (Michael, February 18th, “A Forecast for Disaster: Stormy Conditions Await if NOAA Funding Is Cut,” Center for American Progress,<span style="color: #000000;">http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/noaa_funding.html</span>)

<span class="Underline">The U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span><span class="Underline">needs</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> these … mid-air refueling operations.</span>



**Loss of meteorological support collapses terrestrial and sea power – plus makes bioterrorism inevitable**

**AMS 01** (American Meteorological Society, May, “Improved weather and climate services for the nation: A blueprint for leadership, ” Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Vol. 82, Iss. 5; pg. 991. Proquest)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">National Security. </span><span class="Underline">**Today's**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> sophisticated </span><span class="Underline">**…** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">trigger mass migrations.</span>



**Extinction**

**Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of all the weapons of … potential damage bioweapons could cause. </span>



**Independently, climatological data prevents Arctic war – loss of observation capabilities destabilizes the region**

**Winokur 11** Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal” <span class="Underline">http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore</span>) Jacome

<span class="Underline">The Arctic is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … through the Panama Canal.</span>



**Global nuclear war**

**Staples 09** (Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute, “Steps Toward an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone,” August 10, 2009, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span>__or use of nuclear weapons.”__





**The navy is uniquely vulnerable because of reliance on weather monitoring which is key to naval effectiveness**

**Winokur 11** Deputy Oceanographer of the Navy, (Robert Winokur, June 22, “Statement of robert winokur deputy oceanographer of the navy before the house committee on science & technology on noaa’s climate service proposal” <span style="color: #000000;">http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/062211_winokur.pdfore</span>) Jacome

<span class="Underline">Since operations at … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">heating and cooling costs.</span>



**And, satellite based AIS is the foundation of Maritime Domain Awareness and vessel tracking – collapse hamstrings maritime security**

**exactNews 11** (exactNews is the routine news source, global vessel monitoring and tracking service based on world leading Satellite, “exactEarth Unveils the Next Chapter in Satellite AIS,” Issue 2, 2011, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.exactearth.com/assets/Uploads/exactNews-Web-Issue-2.pdf</span>, note that card is cut from main article sections and not sidebar sections outlined in blue in pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">***note – AIS = Automatic Identification System**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On April 20, the third satellite … </span><span class="Underline">can change all of this.</span>**



That’s key to the Navy

DON 07 **(US Department of the Navy, “Navy Maritime Doman Awareness Concept,” May 29, 2007, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/Navy_Maritime_Domain_Awareness_Concept_FINAL_2007.pdf</span>)**

**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As the world’s premier maritime … </span>**__missions and maritime security responsibilities.__



That solves all conflict
England et al, 11 **(By GORDON ENGLAND, JAMES L. JONES, AND VERN CLARK, Mr. England is a former secretary of the Navy. Mr. Jones is a former commandant of the Marine Corps. Mr. Clark is a former chief of naval operations, WSJ, 7/11/11, “The Necessity of U.S. Naval Power”)**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">All our citizens, … challenges of the future.</span>**





Satellites are also key to UAV operations

MilSat Magazine 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Andy Beers, Thrane & Thrane, November 2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Swiftbroadband For UAVs”, MilSat Magazine, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=969668068&method=print)</span>**

**__In a market which already relies … the safety of ground forces.__**





Those are key to air superiority

Chapman 2**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Colonel US Armed Forces (summer 2002, Robert E., Aerospace Power Journal, “Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicles Dawn of a New Age?” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj02/sum02/chapman.html)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Cost per Target Killed. Advocates … execution of an air campaign. </span>**



Airpower is key to deterring multiple nuclear conflicts in Asia

Tellis, 98**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ashley J. Tellis et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, sources of conflict in the 21st century, availible via the rand website @ rand.org. chapter 3, 1998)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first key implication derived … , Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>**



Escalates to global nuclear war

Landay, 2k** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department.</span>

==**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Hegemony</span>__**== 
**Contention three is hegemony**

**Space debris destroys critical space assets – that wrecks intel gathering, command and control and battlefield planning – that immediately opens the door to massive terrorism, the rise of hostile actors and surprise WMD launches**
**Imburgia, ‘11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Joseph, Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, Judge Advocate for the USAF. Joseph, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Volume 44, Number 3, May. http%3A%2F%2Flaw.vanderbilt.edu%2Fpublications%2Fjournal-of-transnational-law%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D6574&rct=j&q=Space%20Debris%20and%20Its%20Threat%20to%20National%20Security%3A%20A%20Proposal%20for%20a%20Binding%20International%20Agreement%20to%20Clean%20Up%20the%20Junk&ei=ypRiTr3aB8uDtgfjxcn_CQ&usg=AFQjCNEglOEqH_3OfmcbgE6HXwiHKrBz8g&sig2=tGgUqSpEwkWUxmVNfAZ1Cg</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These gloomy prognostications about the … </span>__imperiled, if not forever lost__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.172</span>

**Space assets are crucial to communications superiority – it’s 80% of the mission**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Megan </span>**Ansdell, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The second major space-debris … </span>**__of its wartime communications__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Cavossa 2006, 5).</span>

**Communication superiority is vital to ALL OTHER military advantages – loss sets the U.S. military back 75 years**
**Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].**
**__U.S. News and World Report …__** __space assets is not optional**.**__

It’s reverse causal – EVERY BRANCH of the military would *collapse* without satellites
Johnson & Hudson, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. </span>**NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” [[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]].
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">General Kevin P. </span>__Chilton, Commander of__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span>__crucial advantages in the field__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”6</span>

**Decline isn’t inevitable – America can achieve dominance if it maintains critical assets**
**Cox, 8-30**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Michael, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, “America's future is secure: Professor Cox,” ABC, http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3306142.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ALI MOORE: Let's look at … </span>__of the American political order.__


**Nuclear conflicts would erupt in multiple regions without U.S. military dominance**
**Kagan, ‘7**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.</span>

**U.S. leadership on earth ensures world peace — prevents great power war, builds coalitions, and deters new threats**
**Zhang**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and Shi</span>**, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, 1/22/2011, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean … </span>__devoid of unrivalled US primacy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
==Russia== 
**Contention four is Russia**

**Space debris risks accidental nuclear war with Russia**
**Lewis, ‘4**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**Largest existential risks**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nick </span>**Bostrom, ‘2**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Oxford Unviersity, “Existential risk,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A much greater existential risk … </span>__much we discount future benefits__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [15,16]. </span>

==India== 

**Runaway debris makes the use of Earth’s orbit __impossible__ for everyone – the plan is key**
**Ansdell 10** (Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000;">www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Currently, </span>__the highest spatial densities …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">own predictive models (ESA 2009a).</span>

**Specifically India**
**Shashwat 09** (Senior Assistant Editor, Dataquest, “Space Debris a Concern: ISRO Chief,” February 15, 2009, <span style="color: #000000;">http://shashwatdc.com/2009/02/space-debris-a-concern-isro-chief/</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Recently, when I spoke to </span>__ISRO … the upcoming ones from ISRO.__

**But India is increasing military satellite capability now – deters new threats and is key to intel gathering**
**Jaramillo et. al, 10** (Cesar Jaramillo, Program Officer at Project Ploughshares working on the Space Security and Nuclear Disarmament programs, “Space Security 2010,” Space Security, August 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://swfound.org/media/29039/space%20security%20index%202010%20full%20report.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Indian Space Research Organisation (… both </span>__military__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and civilian </span>__uses.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 20</span>

**These intel satellites are key to prevent conflict – satellites maintain mutual deterrence and prevent preemption by providing key military intel**
**Su 10** (Jinyuan Su, The Silk Road Institute of International Law, School of Law, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China and Visiting Fellow, The Lauterpacht Centre for International Law, University of Cambridge, UK. “The “peaceful purposes” principle in outer space and the Russia-China PPWT Proposal,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.macalester.edu/internationalstudies/Su%202010.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nothing of what the states … , production, storage, deployment or operations.59 </span>

**ISRO satellites are the foundation of their military intelligence and also provide treaty verification which promotes diplomacy and diffuses regional tensions**
**Chriqui 06** (Jacob Chriqui, research intern, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “Military Applications of India’s Space Program: The Military Surveillance and Reconnaissance System,” June 20, 2006, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ipcs.org/article/military/military-applications-of-indias-space-program-the-military-surveillance-and-2043.html</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At the same time, </span>__India's …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">partial disarmament of existing stockpile.</span>

**India’s increase in intel satellites is the vital internal link into surveillance of Pakistan’s military activities – key to deter war**
**Eurasia Review 11** (Eurasia Review, Masood-Ur-Rehman Khattak, Research Fellow at South Asian Strategic Stability Institute, “Indian Military’s Space Program: Implications For Pakistan – Analysis,” http://www.eurasiareview.com/10062011<span style="color: #000000;">-indian-military%E2%80%99s-space-program-implications-for-pakistan-analysis/</span>)
__Military space satellites are used …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">conflict or war against Pakistan. </span>

**Extinction**
**GSN 10** (Global Security Newswire, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” 3/16/2010, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Computer </span>__modeling suggests a nuclear exchange …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">University of Colorado at Boulder</span>

**India’s intelligence satellites are also key to information deterrence against China advancing in Tibet – provides early warning and key intel**
**Chriqui 06** (Jacob Chriqui, research intern, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “Military Applications of India’s Space Program: The Military Surveillance and Reconnaissance System,” June 20, 2006, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.ipcs.org/article/military/military-applications-of-indias-space-program-the-military-surveillance-and-2043.html</span>)
__India's satellite intelligence capabilities could__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span>__any movement of Chinese troops.__

**Sino-Indian conflict over Tibet guarantees global nuclear war**
**Kahn 9** (Jeremy, Pew International Journalism Fellow – Johns Hopkins University and Former Managing Editor – New Republic, “Why India Fears China”, Newsweek, 10-10, http://www.newsweek.com/id/217088)
__China claims__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> some </span>__90,000__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> square </span>__kilometers …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tibetan resistance to Chinese authority.</span>

**Plus satellites are key to Indian naval power and operational readiness**
**Eurasia Review 11** (Eurasia Review, Masood-Ur-Rehman Khattak, Research Fellow at South Asian Strategic Stability Institute, “Indian Military’s Space Program: Implications For Pakistan – Analysis,” http://www.eurasiareview.com/10062011<span style="color: #000000;">-indian-military%E2%80%99s-space-program-implications-for-pakistan-analysis/</span>)
__India is also developing a dedicated … -time to ensure swift reaction.__

**That’s key to regional stability**
**Roughead 10** (Admiral Gary Roughead, US Navy, Round Table Conference, National Maritime Foundation, New Delhi, April 12, 2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.navy.mil/navydata/people/cno/Roughead/Speech/100412%20National%20Maritime%20Foundation%20Round%20Table.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of course, </span>__before there can …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">enough for our global interests.</span>

**Global nuclear war**
**Landay 2k** (Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department.</span>

==GPS== 
<span class="Underline">**Advantage is GPS**</span>

**Space debris will take out GPS satellites**
**Ansdell 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Megan Ansdell</span>**,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. 2010 “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf|www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf]]</span>.)</span>
__There are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> currently </span>__hundreds of …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">interrupt electric power grids (Logsdon 2001).</span>

**No replacement for GPS—alternatives are not as accurate and steel frames distort.**
**IBT 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> International Business Tech “Technology could back up GPS, defeat jammers” http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Technology+Could+Back+Up+GPS,+Defeat+Jammers.-a0251229112</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">*cites Bob Cockshott, organizer of the conference and location and timing program director for Digital Systems</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, despite its effectiveness, he … is a viable alternative in a pinch.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Scenario one is food—**</span>

<span class="Underline">**GPS operation key to precision agriculture and crop efficiency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**GPS.gov 11** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(“Agriculture,” National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing, http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Precision agriculture is now changing … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">agricultural operations in the future.</span>

**We’re morally obligated to prevent famine**
**<span style="color: #010000;">Watson 77 </span>**<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Prof. of Philosophy @ Washington U, </span><span style="color: #010000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p. 118-9, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">19</span><span style="color: #010000; font-size: 10.6667px;">77)</span>
__<span style="color: #010000;">One may even have to … when the going gets rough</span>__<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Famine causes terrorism**
**Lang 6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:ssl4@cornell.edu|Susan S. Lang]]</span> Feb. 17, 2006 The world neglect of hunger is 'immoral and appalling' and feeds terrorism, says Cornell expert http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/Feb06/AAAS.hunger.nochange.ssl.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span>__It's disgraceful -- it's immoral … between the rich and poor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">."</span>

**<span style="color: #010000;">Terrorism ends the world</span>**
**<span style="color: #010000;">Corsi 5 </span>**<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jerome Corsi, Ph. D. in PoliSci from Harvard, 2005, Excerpt from //Atomic Iran//, <span style="color: #010000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://911review.org/Wget/worldnetdaily.com/NYC_hit_by_terrorist_nuke.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="color: #010000;">The combination of horror and … </span>__<span style="color: #010000; font-size: 10.6667px;">focus on attacking one another.</span>

**Decrease in crops yields cause resource wars, mass starvation, atrocity, and World War III**
**Calvin 98** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(William H. Calvin, Theoretical Nuerophysicist @ U of Washington in Seattle, January 1998, "The great climate flip-flop," //The Atlantic Monthly//, Vol. 281, 47-64)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The population-crash scenario is … report due five years hence.</span>

**Blips in food prices kill billions**
**Tampa Tribune 96**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Tampa Tribune, 1/20/1996)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On a global scale, </span>__food supplies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - … of their income on food.</span>

**Asian rice farming solves billions of deaths, war, and poverty**
**CANTRELL 2002**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ronals, General Director of the International Rice Research Institute, Economic Perspectives, May http://usinfo.state.gov/journals/ites/0502/ijee/rice.htm)</span>
__What's so special about rice … , rice anchors their precarious lives.__

**Global nuclear war**
**Landay, 2k** (Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department.</span>

**Scenario two is Malaria—**

<span class="Underline">**GPS key to malaria risks map – prevents mosquitoes from maturing and transmitting disease**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bautista et al 06**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Christian T., Department of Epidemiology and Threat Assessment, U.S. Military HIV Research Program at the Walter Reed Army Institute, Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement Military Medicine , Adeline S. T. Chan, Jeffrey R. Ryan, Carlos Calampa, Marty H. Roper, Allen W. Hightower, Alan J. Magill, The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2006, http://www.ajtmh.org/content/75/6/1216.full.pdf+html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent applications of</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> GIS/</span><span class="Underline">GPS … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of malaria in this region.</span>

**Malaria threatens billions**
**Finkel 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael Finkel, July 2007, National Geographic, “Bedlam in the Blood,” http://www7.nationalgeographic.com/ngm/0707/feature1/</span>
__We live on a malarious planet.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … the annual toll a generation ago.</span>


== == 
==UAVs== 




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Asian instability causes global nuclear war </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Landay, 2k </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Jonathan Landay, Knight-Ridder National Security and Intelligence senior correspondent, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts” March 10, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0in;">The 3,700-mile arc that begins … , according to the Commerce Department.</span>



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bioweapons guarantees extinction</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ochs, 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park (Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of … the highest of all crimes.</span>



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Terrorism risks extinction </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Alexander, 3</span>** — professor and director of the Inter-University for Terrorism Studies (Yonah, Washington Times, 8/28/2003)

__<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Last week's brutal suicide bombings</span> …__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, regional and </span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Courier;">global security concerns</span>.__



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Afghani instability causes nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Morgan, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> [Stephen J. former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, political writer including books such as The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist – the Cult of Al Qaeda -- “Better Another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan” March 4 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?Better-Another-Taliban-Afghanistan,-than-a-Taliban-NUCLEAR-Pakistan?&id=475808]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">However events may prove him … </span>__and Russia pitted against the US.__




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Latin American instability empowers Brazilian hardliners </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Millett, 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Richard L., Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the North-South Center, Oppenheimer Chair of Modern Warfighting Strategy at the U.S. Marine Corps University, Professor Emeritus of History at Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville, Oct. Strategic Studies Institute, Colombia's Conflicts: The Spillover Effects of a Wider War)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">While <span class="underline0">the spillover of Colombia’s … will be difficult to overcome. </span></span>



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Instability empowers Brazilian hardliners who will rearm</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Schulz, 2k </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Donald E., Ph.D., Chair of Political Science at Cleveland State U., fmr. Research Professor of National Security at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army College, March 2k. Strategic Studies Institute, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">Until recently, the primary U.S. concern … many high-ranking Brazilian officers. 57 </span>


Extinction

Manwaring 05 (<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">The Issue of State Failure. - … global security, peace, and prosperity.65</span>







**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Satellites key to UAVs</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">MilSat Magazine 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Andy Beers, Thrane & Thrane, November 2009, “PRIORITY BRIEFING: Swiftbroadband For UAVs”, MilSat Magazine, http://www.milsatmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=969668068&method=print)</span>


__In a market which already relies … the safety of ground forces.__



**Those are key curbing instability and terrorism in Afghanistan and Pakistan**
**Cordesman 10 -** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">PhD, Analyzes political and military strategy for the Center for Strategic & International Studies and former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (6/20/10, Newsday, “Drones are the difference between surgery and butchery in war”, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.newsday.com/opinion/oped/opinion-drones-are-the-difference-between-surgery-and-butchery-in-war-1.2035217]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">)</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 181.5pt;">__Earlier this month, a UN investigator … something like the last 4,000 years.__ </span>




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">They also prevent North Korean and Chinese escalation </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cronin and Giarra 10 </span>**(Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program, Paul S. Giarra, President of Global Strategies & Transformation and a retired navy Commander, “Robotic Skies Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and the Strategic Defense of Japan,” Center for a New American Security, December 2010, <span style="color: black;">http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Robotic%20Skies_CroninGiarra.pdf</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The People’s Liberation Army is … a more comprehensive Japanese ISR capability.</span>


**UAVs and GPS are key to preventing Caribbean narcoterrorism**
**Purdy 8**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27, pg online)</span>

__In U.S. Southern Command’s area of …__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">detected and harmed by insurgents. </span>


**Caribbean narcoterrorists will use bioweapons and target LNG**
**Flynn and Bryan 1**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001, pg online @ CFR)</span>


__Terrorist acts can take place … biological weapons within national borders.__


**Extinction**
**Lovins and Lovins, 1** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (“Brittle Power,” 2001 [[http://www.rmi.org/images/other/EnergySecurity/S82-03_BrPwrParts123.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">LNG is less than half … </span>__about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.__





**Drones are key to preventing Latin American instability and drug trafficking**

**New America Media 10** **(Marcelo Ballvé, Jan. 27, 2010 New America Media, “Drug Surveillance Drones Frequent Flyers in Latin America”, http://www.ww4report.com/node/8390)**

**__Drone aircraft are increasingly engaged … "Lula" da Silva in December 2008.__**










==Asteroids== 
**We’re passing through a cosmic cycle with ten times the risk of asteroid impact**
**DAILY GALAXY****10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (“A Deadly Orbit?” 2-11-2010 http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/a-deadly-orbit-the-solar-systems-journey-through-the-milky-way.html)</span>
__Is there a genocidal countdown built …__ <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to burn up on re-entry.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Debris elimination makes terrestrial vision and asteroid monitoring possible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**U.S. Congress 90**</span> (September, U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, “Orbiting Debris: A Space Environmental”, pg.13-17, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.fas.org/ota/reports/9033.pdf</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space debris can interfere … breakup events (as of January 1990).48</span>

**The development of lasers increases the capability to deflect asteroids**
<span class="Underline">**Campbell 2000**</span> (Jonathan W. Campbell. Colonel, USAER, Occasional Paper No. 20, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College, “Using Lasers in Space: Laser Orbital Debris Removal and Asteroid Deflection”, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/csat20.pdf)
Technology Demonstration. <span class="Underline">The serious …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> fixed position with respect to the Earth.6</span>

**Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**
**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In the past few years, … </span>__that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

**It’s the only existential risk**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The Tunguska events pale into … comet heading in our direction. </span>

**Extinction**
**Matheny, 7** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm</span>)
Even if extinction events are … <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the costs of mitigating them.20</span>


==Solvency== 
**Contention five is solvency**

**We solve in two years**
**Adair, 2** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Richard G., “Pollution”, Space Sciences, Edited by Pat Dasch, Vol. 4, “Our Future in Space”, New York: Macmillan Reference USA, 2002, p129-132, Gale)</span>
__A ground-based laser … **within two years**.__

**It’s feasible in the near-term and technology is constantly improving**
**Johnson and Hudson 08** (Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. **NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center, Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination</span>)**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>__Orion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> study </span>__concluded that …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">these to an international project.”184</span>**

The plan solves without triggering the link to space mil
Ackerman, 11 **(Evan, “NASA wants to blast space junk with lasers from the ground”, 3/14/2011, [[http://dvice.com/archives/2011/03/nasa-wants-to-b-1.php]], JT)**
**__Rogue space junk poses a serious …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">designed to absorb laser blasts. </span>**

Targeting small debris is best – large debris can be tracked and avoided
Ansdell 10 **(Megan Ansdell, Grad Student @ George Washington University’s Elliot School of Int’l Affairs, where she focused on space policy. “Active Space Debris Removal: Needs, Implications, and Recommendations for Today’s Geopolitical Environment,” <span style="color: #000000;">www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf</span>)**
**__The most dangerous pieces of …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">using relatively simple shielding (Wright 2007, 36). </span>**


Overcrowding risks __catastrophic__ accidents and __deliberate__ attacks
Axe 9-19 **<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David Axe, 9-19-11 – David is a military correspondent who writes widely on military life and aspects of current conflicts “Secret Sats, Giant Rockets: U.S. Unveils Space War Arsenal,” //Wired// Danger Room National Security Blog, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/09/space-war-arsenal/]]. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">When the Space Shuttle flew … </span>//__space war is only escalating__////__.__//**


ONLY the US has an appropriate surveillance network – and the data is only available to the military
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lt Col Matthew C. </span>**Smitham, ’10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – USAFLt Col Matthew C. Smitham, USAF, 3RD place for all DoD research in 2010*“The Need for a Global Space-Traffic-Control Service An Opportunity for US Leadership,” [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/maxwell/mp57.pdf]]. *http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awards.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">The US SSN is by … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to develop its own capability.40</span>


==Special Solvency Addendum for Niles West== 
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Here is some evidence that proves there is no literature and their counterplan is vague and un-educational.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Elmore 80</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Richard Elmore, assistant professor of public affairs at the Institute of Governmental Research at the University of Washington in Seattle, Political Science Quarterly, 1980, p. 606-8.</span>
<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Students</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of implementation </span><span class="underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">repeatedly argue … </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">is </span><span class="underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">desultory and strategically vague</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.1 </span>








==2AC Beyond the Mesosphere== 

**1. We Meet – Debris is in the thermosphere**
**David, ’10** – Leonard, has reported on the space industry for more than five decades. Fmr editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines and has written for SPACE.com (99-Now). “A Real Mess in Orbit: Space Junk to Hang Around Longer Than Expected,” Space.com, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.space.com/8875-real-mess-orbit-space-junk-hang-longer-expected.html]]</span>.
<span class="Underline">While </span>greenhouse gases<span class="Underline"> cause warming … </span>active debris removal," Lewis said.

**2. Counter interpretation – investigation is exploration**
**Bohlmann, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> –Ph. D., Legal Officer at the … of manned and unmanned spacecraft. </span>

**Lasers can explore debris by tracking**
**TG Daily** 7/20/**10**
__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">A</span>__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">n Australian company __is to …__ laser tracking system," he said.</span>

**3. Counter Interpretation - earth-based exploration of space is topical**
**Lester, 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy and serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC). Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">First, we should accept that “</span>… <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">no longer a particularly relevant distinction.</span>

**Space Development Includes the Facilities Needed to Sustain Space Technologies**
**NASA ‘10** (National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010, Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, October 11, Accessed Online, Http://Legislative.Nasa.Gov/PL%20111-267.Pdf
__(B) CONTENT.— (1) at a…And Their Application.__


**4. Reasonabiltiy --- competeting interpretations create a race to the bottom that arbitrarily excludes the aff – there is a resolution basis for reasonability**
**Oxford Dictionaries Online, No Date**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (“Its”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/its?view=uk]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
__its__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Entry from World dictionary … the area for its atmosphere</span>

**5. Counter Interpretation– space exploration is the expansion of human influence in space and no case meets if ours doesn’t**
**Faith, ‘9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Adjunct fellow @ Center for Strategic and International Studies. G. Ryan, “Giving NASA a clear mission,” The Space Review, 8/31, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
<span class="Underline">If neither technology-oriented nor … **the groundwork for future missions**</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**










=Negative= 
==Niles West== 
Round 2 vs. GBS (Asteroids)
T-humans
Asteroid threat K
SKFTA (2nr)
Prizes CP
Case (2nr)

Round 4 vs. GBS (Asteroids)
T-humans
Coercion K
Disband NASA CP
Reverse condition China (2nr)
SKFTA
Case

Round 6 vs. GBS (Space Guard)
T-humans
Space tourism trade off DA (2nr)
SKFTA
Prizes CP
Case

==Georgetown== 

Round 1 vs. Berkeley Prep (AEHF)
T-humans
Reverse Conditions China (2nr)
SKFTA DA
Case

Round 3 vs. Westminster (SPS)
T-sattelites
Microwaves DA (2nr)
SKFTA DA
Cap K
Case (2nr)

Round 3 vs. Mcdounough (DSCVR)
T-humans/T-sattelites (2nr)
Cap K
SKFTA DA
"Development" word PIC
case
==St. Marks Sophomore Hoedown== 
Round 2 vs. Eden Prarie (SBMD)
Space heg K (2nr)
China soft power DA
T-humans
Code of Conduct CP
case (2nr)

Round 4 vs. Mercedes
Heg good K
Framework (2nr)
Case

Round 5 vs. Barstow (Asteroids)
T-humans
Baharain Arms sales DA (Obama good)
Asteroid threat K
reverse condition China (2nr)

Round 7 vs. Pace (SPS)
T-humans
advantage CP (2nr)
Love K
Baharain arms sales DA (obama good)
Case (including warming good turns) (2nr)
==**New Trier**== 
Round 2 vs. Appleton East (private incentives aff)
T-its
"Exploration" Word PIC
Earth science trade off DA (2nr)
Jobs DA (Obama bad)
case (2nr)

Round 4 vs. OPRF (Cyborgs)
T-human
Earth Science trade off DA
Cap K
Signing statements CP (2nr)
case

Round 5 vs. Groves (James Webb)
T-human
Jobs DA (Obama bad) (2nr)
advantage CP
Love K
case (2nr)

==Michigan== 
Round 2 vs. Lane Tech (SSA)
T-human
Security K
EPA rider DA (2nr)
ESA CP
case (2nr)

Round 3 vs. John's Ceek (Women in Space)
T-pre-existing
Cap K (2nr)
Earth Science DA
Case (Including Patriarchy good turns) (2nr)

Round 5 vs. Marquette (Solar Sails)
T-humans (2nr)
Memo CP
Jackson Vancik DA (obama good)
Security K

==Blake== 
Round 2 vs. Eagen (Moon Base)
ESA CP
NSP CP
Sacred Cow DA (2nr)
Security K
Case (Including heg bad turns) (2nr)

Round 3 vs. Eden Prarie (GPS III)
T-delay
Security K
Sacred Cow DA (2nr)
NSP CP
Case (2nr)

Round 5 vs. New Trier (SBMD)
T-humans
NMS CP
Sacred Cow DA (2nr)
Case (2nr)

==Berkeley== 
Round 2 vs. Coppell (SPS)
Advantage CP (Satellite Hardening and guarantee electricity for water desalination)
Cyber-Security DA (Obama Good)
T-humans
Heidegger K (2nr)
Case

Round 4 vs. UC Lab (Iran Broadband Satellites)
Give internet to the people, not the government CP
Near Space Counterplan (2nr)
ULA Disad (2nr)
T-humans
Sacred Cow DA
Case

Round 6 vs. Juan Diego (Critical Aliens)
T-mesosphere
T--pre-existing
Cap K
Disclose Area 51 CP with Lifeboat ethics net benefit (2nr)
Case

Triples vs. GBN (ASATs)
In the 1nc, Ethan read Signing Statements, XO, a giant advantage counterplan (email us for the text or cites), the "plan" pic, the buddhism k, D and G,the death good k t-whole rez, aspec, ospec, politics da #1 (START), and politics da #2 (SKFTA). Because he is so fast, Ethan still had half his speech left, so he played the fiddle for a few minutes then got bored and read his condo bad block (a different one than referenced above) while Tommy yelled at him. The block was 13 minutes of irony good to answer the condo arguments. In the 2nr, Tommy went for the Cap K because the other team hadn't ever answered it. Ethan gave the other team all the money in his pocket (a dime) to show that he endorsed the 2nr's move, but the other team insisted that he keep it. Although they lost the round, Ethan was happy because he had a dime to pay Josh for his pizza while at JV State.

Doubles vs. Rosemont (SSA)
T-humans
Cyber Security DA (Obama Good) (2nr)
On the Ground CP
Funding CP (2nr)
Case

==Districts== 
Round 2 vs. GBS (Solar Sails)
T-humans
NSP CP
Defense Cuts DA (Obama Good)
Heidegger K (2nr)
Case

==Illinois JV State== 
Round 1 vs. Lane Tech (SSA)
ESA CP
Defense Cuts DA (Obama Good) (2nr)
Heidegger K
Weaponization DA
Case (2nr)

Round 3. vs. New Trier (NPP sats)
T-humans
NSP CP (2nr)
ESA CP
Debris DA
Defense Cuts DA (Obama Good)
Case

Round 5 vs. GBS (AIS)
T-humans
NSP CP
Heidegger K
Defense Cuts DA (obama good) (2nr)
Case (2nr)

Finals vs. GBN (Debris Laser)
Aspec (2nr)
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: 8822.5px; width: 1px;">Ethan</span>