[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">We begin with a firsthand account of violence in Afghanistan</span></span>**
<span class="DebateUnderline">"The street next to my home was bombed, and 18 were killed and 23 injured. Everything was destroyed there.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"The doors and window glass of our homes were broken. I have a baby child, one and a half years old. Even she is afraid of the plane sounds and bombing, and she runs towards me and hugs me when the planes come over.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"I am surprised by those who claim to be defending human rights. Those who claim that the terror attacks were carried out by the followers of Osama and his group, may be wrong.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"But still if they are right, two buildings have been destroyed and some people have been killed.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"Anyway now it has been done, and we are also sorry for the victims of the attack. But now these American and British planes have added our nation's blood [to that of the dead in Washington and New York] and they have made all people frightened.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"No one can go to sleep for whole night up to the morning. Their planes come proudly at a low altitude and as a result the plastic in all our windows and doors - whose glass has already been broken - started shaking in this cold weather.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"In the Darulaman area they again carried out a heavy bombardment in which many houses were destroyed and many people have been washed in blood and made another disaster.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">"At the moment when I am talking to you, the planes are going up and down and who knows what might be their goal and what disaster might happen again to the poor and innocent people."</span>

<span class="Author-Date">**These lives are taken not because of some strategic goal but because they simply do not matter. Modern impact calculus cannot compare this impact to another, but can say that it must be stopped**.</span>
<span class="Author-Date">Gregory of the University of British Columbia, ‘4</span>
Gregory, Distinguished University Scholar and Professor of Geography at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, 2004 [Derek, //The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq//, pp. 67-72]

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Violence should not be justified as virtuous. Even if our impact framing rests somewhat on utilitarianism, the insight to vulnerability is a relationship prior to any calculation</span></span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Judith </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler</span>** **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the Department of Rhetoric</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Comparative Literature </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">at Berkeley</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> 200</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (PhD Yale, __Frames of War__, The Claim of Nonviolence, P. 179-184 //DN)</span>

**Ethics first – Every attempt to create a predictive model of international relations has failed. An inherently dynamic international sphere is impossible to causally define into the future. There is so much conflicting data it is impossible to distinguish between link and link turn without creating a tapestry of lies.**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Steven </span>**<span style="color: black;">Bernstein of the University of Toronto et al</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">.,</span>** <span style="font-weight: normal;">Richard Ned Lebow, Janice Gross Stein and Steven Weber</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> //<span style="color: black; letter-spacing: 0.4pt;">University of Toronto, The Ohio State University, University of Toronto </span><span style="color: black; letter-spacing: 0.55pt;">and University of California at Berkeley</span>//</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;">European Journal of International Relations </span>2000<span style="font-weight: normal;">; 6; 43.</span>

Plan: The United States federal government should completely reduce its military and police presence in Afghanistan

**We must immediately and unconditionally demand complete withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Afghan people need to be left to resolve their own political affairs. It isn’t about whether US presence can take singular positive actions, but about our ethical stance toward whether US imperial presence should exist around the globe or not.** 
Ely, founder of the Kasama project and participant in the Wildcat Miner’s Strikes, ‘9
(Mike Ely is founder of the Kasama Project who was an activist in the miners wildcat strike movements of the 1970s, “We Must Demand Complete & Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan,” October 10, 2009, http://kasamaproject.org/2009/10/10/we-demand-complete-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan/#more-14148//DN)


**Our demand through our plan is uniquely key in the instance of grieving in Afghanistan. In the face of the constant striving for war and security in Afghanistan we must take the “non-act” and seek to actively dismantle military machinery. It is most difficult to take this act in a state of anxiety and in the face of disadvantages but that is the necessary cite of the struggle against violence.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Judith </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Second) Butler</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the Departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at Berkeley</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> 200</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (PhD Yale, __Frames of War__, The Claim of Nonviolence, P. 179-184 //DN)</span>

**The images we furnish yield a rupture in the hegemonic field of representation itself that moves the US beyond the justifications for war and hegemonic dominance.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Judith (</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth) Butler</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Professor in the Departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at Berkely, 200</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (PhD Yale, __The Precarious Life__, July, The Precarious Life, P. 146-151 //DN)</span>





=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]