[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==TFA State China Cooperation Aff Round 3== 
Outline
Inherency:

Obama doctrine on space is focused on international cooperation as evidence by National Space Policy


**Fukushima, National Institute Defense Studies, 2011**
(Yasuhito, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/journal/02659646|__Space Policy__]], Feb 2011 ebsco 6/20 rs)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Above all,</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">” in Obama’s NSP.</span>__
**Turf battles within the US government render unilateral development of space based solar power ineffective in the status quo**
[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Shea**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Space solar power has… launch cost reductions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
Advantage __- It’s Gettn’ Hot in Here—Climate cooperation

Ineffective Durban talks require a shift in focus from limits on carbon emissions to improving access to cleaner tech.

Revkin, environmental writer 2011

(Andrew New York Times December 12[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt|__http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt__]] accessed 1/13)

__Some hard realities are being acknowledged as diplomats, scientists, scholars and others ponder next steps following the__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/10/young-voices-at-deadlocked-durban-climate-talks/|__indeterminate Durban climate negotiations__]] __—__[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/science/earth/countries-at-un-conference-agree-to-draft-new-emissions-treaty.html?ref=earth|__the latest failed attempt__]] __to limit climate risk using__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/12/15/warming-pollution-or-technology-problem/|__pollution-style restrictions__]] __on carbon dioxide under a global treaty__.

__The real-time demand …while limiting environmental harms__.



<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Rahmstorf</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Stefan, __Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=fals]]</span>[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|e]]<span style="font-size: 16px;"> 6-27 TM) </span>

It is time to turn to statement ….<span style="font-size: 16px;">around the world</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(many of whom were initially quite skeptical, including myself) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>


**Failure to act now leads to runaway warming that collapses civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation**
**Brown,** Masters in AE from Maryland & Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S **2008**
(Lester E. Brown, Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization [[http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7%20accessed%206-27|http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7 accessed 6-27]] tm )

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow …</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">could begin to unravel under these extreme stresses.</span>


**Acting now to slowing emissions allows for changes in rate of climate change—inaction results in worsening famine, erratic weather, water shortages** 
**NPR, 11-30-11**
[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=142930620]] accessed tm 12-2
The __<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.N.'s top climate scientist cautioned climate negotiators </span>__Wednesday that__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> global warming is leading to human dangers and soaring …more secure food supplies.</span>__

**All of your DA impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming** 
**Becker**//__<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>__//executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**
(Bill , “ <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span>” January 24, 20__11__ http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Finishing the job in Afghanistan and Iraq</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">reformingimmigration policy</span> and <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">bringing the economyback to health willbe high on the …</span>what happens when weather variability and climate change combine.


**Lack of terrestrial resources spark resources wars, SSP solves for resource security**
**Collins and Autino 08**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Patrick Collins and Andriano Autino, May 25 2008, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to_employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Accessed June 24, 2011, JP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><</span>__As an alternative …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">use of space resources.></span>

These resource wars over energy will escalate, incentivizing terrorism and irregular warfare
Moran and Russell 2008
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Daniel and Jason,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Associate Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Senior Lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School and Co-Director of the Center for Contemporary Conflict, “The Militarization of Energy Security” //Strategic Insights//, Feb 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/si/2008/Feb/moranFeb08.asp]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This book does not seek to …</span>__avoiding such a conflict.__

**Collaboration on energy policy provides international cooperation necessary for long term climate and energy agenda**

**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**

(Andrew New York Times December 12 <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]]</span> accessed 1/13)

Finally, I like …__, communication and__ <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.ymparisto.fi/default.asp?node=24739&lan=en|policy]]</span>__.__






**Now is key – SPS solves climate change and the tech is ready to slow the rate** 
**<span style="color: #262626;">Hadhazy, Staff writer for the Scientific American, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Hadhazy, scientific american, 4/16/9, </span>[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day__]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Pacific Gas & Electric Co</span>__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">. …, associate director of the CSP.</span>
SPS energy payback time is one week- calculations prove

Mankins, <span style="font-size: 12px;">International Academy of Astronautics,</span> 2011

<span style="font-size: 10px;">(John, “Space Solar Power:THE FIRST INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF SPACE SOLAR POWER: OPPORTUNITIES, ISSUES AND POTENTIAL PATHWAYS FORWARD” November 2011 </span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 10px;">[[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf%20accessed%20tm%2012-3|http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf accessed tm 12-3]]</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Another …</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">economics of the system.</span>



NASA can have SPS up and running within 1 year, thats right, just ONE year
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Costa 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(sociobiologist whose expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies, the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric, Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/|)]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If we took a moment to rank …</span>solution here on earth__.__
Advantage __-Clarity in Foreign Policy

United States foreign policy towards China reflects the conflicted view of China over whether China rise will be peaceful or not. US foreign policy currently reacts to this rise rather than shapes it. We say cooperation but we don’t act on it. US efforts to space race with China reflect this foreign policy ambiguity and makes space war //inevitable//.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gargasz 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael Luke, Major, United States Air Force, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What? The Future of US/China Space Relations”// -jdp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span><span class="small" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Traditionally</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">US deterrent …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of such an endeavor. </span>


**Failure to challenge current views of China makes conflict inevitable—only the Aff challenges SQ notions of China**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pan 2004 Alternatives vol 29 issue 3 p 503-531 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">I have argued…..become possible </span>

**Now is the key time to forge a new direction in US China relations**

**China undergoing leadership transition in March—US clarification of our relationship smooths that transition. Recent visit by Xi Jinping demonstrates the unique opportunity to follow through on the goodwill generated by his visit.** 

**Jiao and Jia 2/17/12**

<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Wu Jiao and Chen Jia, Asia One News, February 17 2012,</span>[[http://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20120217-328455.html|__http://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20120217-328455.html__]]<span style="font-size: 10px;">, Accessed February 17 2012, JDP)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10px;">WASHINGTON - Vice-President Xi Jinping urged….Xi as a "good listener".</span>


**US engagement with China on space spills over to other issues areas.**




**<span style="color: #000000;">Krolikowski 11</span>**
<span style="color: #000000;">(Alanna, Visiting scholar Space Policy Institute, </span>, The George Washington University PhD candidate, University of Toronto, “China’s Civil and Commercial Space Activities and their Implications”, May 5, 2011, [[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html|__http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html__]], accessed 2/24/12 Bill)
__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">China is one of …..could prove valuable in a crisis.</span>__

**Specifically, SPS cooperation uniquely good**

Cox, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, 2011

(William John, March 23, 2011, [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html|__http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html__]], 6-27-11)



__President Kennedy once said, “We choose to go to the moon in this decade, not because it is easy, but because it is hard.” The ….futures that surround and await us.__




Cooperative relations between US and China<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">solve multiple scenarios for nuclear war and environmental destruction. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Desperes, Fellow at the RAND Corporation, 2001</span> (John, Fellow at the RAND Corporation, “China, the United States, and the Global Economy.” p. 227-8)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Indeed, </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S.-Chinese relations …and currently endangered species. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coop with China solves arms race and space war—and disrupts the current constructions of China that make conflict over space inevitable. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">DeGroot 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Gerard, **BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), “**As China gazes upwards, watch this space”, August 25, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, accessed 2/26/12 Bill)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In a rather disturbing article published a fortnight ago, Dean Cheng speculates __on Chinese space intentions and concludes by …so long been treated like one.__ </span>
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan text China Cooperation </span>**== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">As an expression of the National Space Policy and beginning with the People’s Republic of China, the United States federal government should establish a Space-Solar Energy Consortium in order to </span>cooperatively research, develop, deploy, and produce energy from outer space. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.
==TFA State Desal Adv Round 2== 
Desalination Advantage
A. SBSP deployment solves issue of desalination
__Kalam, former President of India and premier scientist, 08__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Dr. A.P.J. Abdul, one of India’s most celebrated scientists and was President of the Republic of, October, “The Future of Space Exploration and Human Development,” __The Frederick S. Pardee Center for the Study of the Longer-Range Future at Boston University__, last accessed 8/19/11, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.bu.edu/csp/Conferences/Space_Exploration/Pardee_ThinkBooklet_andCover.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">] TD</span>
Water for Future generations …<span class="underline">**another major contribution of space**</span>.
**B. Lack of potable water will create multiple regional wars in Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Desalination solves.**

**Allison 1999** (Peter, editor, Global Water Intelligence, http://www.itt.com/waterbook/world.asp)

__US intelligence services have …..with traditional water sources.__

==**__SPS AFF__**== 
==**__Advantage 1-Warming leadership__**== 

**Ineffective Durban talks require a shift in focus from limits on carbon emissions to improving access to cleaner tech.**
**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**
**(**Andrew New York Times December 12 [[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]] accessed 1/13)
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Some hard ……limiting environmental harms</span>__.
**Collaboration on energy policy provides international cooperation necessary for long term climate and energy agenda**
**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**
**(**Andrew New York Times December 12 [[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]] accessed 1/13)
Finally, I like …__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">also </span>__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/12/02/fostering-education-for-innovation-and-vice-versa/|__in education__]]__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, communication and </span>__[[http://www.ymparisto.fi/default.asp?node=24739&lan=en|__policy__]]__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>__
**Acting now to slowing emissions allows for changes in rate of climate change—inaction results in worsening famine, erratic weather, water shortages**
**NPR, 11-30-11**
[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=142930620]] accessed tm 12-2
The __<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.N.'s top ….secure food supplies.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rahmstorf</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Stefan, __Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=false]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> 6-27 TM) </span>

It is time ……<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>

**Failure to act now leads to runaway warming that collapses civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation**
**Brown,** Masters in AE from Maryland & Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S **2008**
(Lester E. Brown, Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization [[http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7%20accessed%206-27|http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7 accessed 6-27]] tm )

In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">…</span> fires, floods, mudslides, blizzards and drought, some still underway in this new year, are evidence of what happens when weather variability and climate change combine.


**All of your DA impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming**
**Becker**//__<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>__//executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**
(Bill , “ <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span>” January 24, 20__11__ http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Finishing the </span>…..when weather variability and climate change combine.

**Whether to act in the face of warming is not a scientific question but one of ethics – even in the face of uncertainty high-risk consequences demand action**
**Brown 10**
([[http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2010/07/have-we-been-asking-the-wrong-questions-about-climate-change-science-why-strong-climate-change-ethic.html]])
climate ethics assumes that it… at least in part, for the tragic 30 year delay in taking climate change seriously.

**Now is key – SPS solves climate change and the tech is ready to slow the rate**
**<span style="color: #262626;">Hadhazy, Staff writer for the Scientific American, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Hadhazy, scientific american, 4/16/9, </span>[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day__]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Pacific Gas & Electric Co</span>__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (PG&E) has long invested in </span><span style="color: #1a3566; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=how-renewable-energy-and-storage|renewable energy sources]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, including geothermal, wind and solar. Earlier this week, the utility company …..says Frank Little, associate director of the CSP.</span>



==**__Advantage 2 is US leadership__**== 


**SPS inevitable – US involvement key to signal investment and improves the US economy and strengthens military readiness**
**Dinerman, author and journalist, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Taylor Dinerman, The Space Review, 7/16/7, </span>[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1__]] <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">6/24/11, KJ)</span>
<span class="Underline"><The first steps … why this cannot be made into a win-win outcome.></span>

**Scenario one—economic competitiveness**
**SPS solves the economy – creates multiple jobs and saves the space industry**
**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>
**<Finding:** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The SBSP Study Group …</span> __mid____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">‐</span>century and beyond. >__

<span class="Underline">**SPS development uniquely improves US economic sectors necessary for US competitiveness and creates new spin off sectors solidifying the US economic position**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mahan, Author and Engineer, No Date Given**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Rob Mahan, [[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01|http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/#01]], Last Modified 06/24/2011, as)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Yes, several very important ones. </span>__…not by force, but by example__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.></span>


**Economic competitiveness key to US leadership Competitiveness is key to leadership**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rocco </span>**__Martino__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ph.D. in astrophysics from the Institute of Aerospace Studies, Senior Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute) Spring </span>**__2007__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “A Strategy for Success: Innovation Will Renew American Leadership”, Orbis, Vol. 51, No. 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Much of the foreign policy discussion … involving economic competitiveness and energy dependence.</span>

**Scenario Two is Readiness**
**US military pursuing renewable energy as a replacement for high cost of conventional fuels**
**MacDonald,** CTO at Skyline solar, **2011**
**(**Bob, “How the military and solar industry can work together” Sept 1 [[http://gigaom.com/cleantech/how-the-military-and-solar-industry-can-work-together/]] accessed tm 9-11)
__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U.S. military is the</span>__…..__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">renewable energy adoption</span>__.

**Military readiness challenged by lack of energy supply**
**NSSO**, Office of Space Security, <span style="color: #000000;">Oct. **2007** </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(National Security Space Office</span>; [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|__http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf__]]<span style="color: #000000;">;Oct. 10,2007;tr)</span>
<FINDING: __The SBSP Study Group found …ombusting fossil fuels increases.>__

**Solar powered systems save resources and funding for the military**
**Goel, 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Tarun Goel, brighthub, 5/17/11, </span>[[http://www.brighthub.com/environment/renewable-energy/articles/89238.aspx|__http://www.brighthub.com/environment/renewable-energy/articles/89238.aspx__]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the US, a huge amount is spent every year on military operations. ….</span><span class="Underline"> twice the energy of existing capacitors</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


**SPS solves readiness – energy on demand and surveillance aspects key to maintaining appropriate force structures**
**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><For </span>__the DoD specifically, beamed … to a strategically secure energy supply__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. ></span>

**Hegemony key to prevent nuclear war**
**Kagan 2007**
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[Robert-, Sr. Assoc. @ the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Sr. Transatlantic Fellow @ the German Marshall Fund, Real Clear Politics, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/]]end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]</span>
__The current order__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, of course, </span>__is not only far from …will provide an easier path__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


==**Contention Three Solvency:**== 


**Congress Key—NASA and Department of Energy need Congressional action to increase space based solar power.**
[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Schubert**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, Ph.D., P.E., Packer Engineering, Inc., Naperville, IL, 20**10** (Peter J., Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html NP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">At present, neither NASA, …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A new organization is needed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
**Coordinated national policy will ensure development of space based solar power. This also means that your xo counterplan won’t work without the coordination provided by the plan.**

**Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><FINDING</span><span class="Underline">: The SBSP Study Group … to mediate the collaboration and serve as an advocate for supportive policy, progress is likely to be slow</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. ></span>



**The technology does exists now - similar to communication satellites just needs more investment**
**Goldenberg, US environment correspondent, 09**
(Suzanne Goldenberg, April 16, 2009, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2009/apr/16/solar-energy-farms-space]], JP)
<span style="color: #1d1d1d;"><Solaren has released relatively ….. __that this is not really a technology issue__."></span>

**SSP can be up and running within one year – NASA has been secretly doing it for 30 years – all that’s necessary is a nationally coordinated policy from Congress**
**Costa 10**
([[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]])
But here’s the real kicker … opportunity to eclipse every other energy solution here on earth



=Negative= 
See KD wiki

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]