[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==DEONT AC== 

My advocacy is that justice requires the recognition the right of sentient animals to be treated as ends in themselves. Francione defines my position of animal rights:

[1] Gary L. Francione Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law and Philosophy, Rutgers University School of Law -- Newark. Professor Francione is also co-director of the Rutgers University Animal Rights Law Center. ANIMAL RIGHTS AND ANIMAL WELFARE. Copyright (c) 1996 Rutgers University, The State of New Jersey. Rutgers Law Review.

“The theory of…without ‘unnecessary’ suffering.”

Reason is the only source for ethical knowledge. Velleman explains:

[1] David Velleman. Self to Self. Cambridge University Press. 2006.

“As we have… reasons is required”

Universally willing any maxim requires respecting all subjects outer freedom, defined as respecting their ability to promote their own ends. Engstrom:

[1] Stephen Engstrom. Universal Legislation as the Form of Practical Knowledge. [This is all the information I could find, I’ll send the article if you need it]

“Now on the… the same freedom”

<span style="color: black;">The affirmative burden is to prove that animals should be counted as subjects in the kingdom of ends, the negative to prove they should not. If animals are subjects, then they should never be violated, and they deserve rights. </span>

My first contention is that animals are subjects in the kingdom of ends.

First, animals have ends that transcend physical well-being. They have lives and ends that are contained with a system of self-preservation. Thierman:

[1] Stephen Thierman. The Vulnerability of Other Animals. 2011. Institute for Critical Animal Studies. Volume IX. Issue 1/2.

“To be vulnerable… are often frustrated”

Second, animals can achieve their own ends, which is the basis of happiness, which is something that humans must respect in the kingdom of ends. Kendrick:

Animals in the Kingdom of Ends. Heather M. Kendrick. Department of Philosophy and Religion Central Michigan University. Between the Species. August 2010.

“In the critique… general term happiness.”

Willing maxims requires willing a value to happiness. Violating animals renders the contradiction of promoting our own ends while interfering with others. Kendrick 2:

“But when we… rather than inherent”

Third, animals have natural ends defined by what kind of animals they are, and those natural ends are their good, which is morally relevant. Korsgaard:

[1] Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and Our Duties to Animals. CHRISTINE M. KORSGAARD. The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Delivered at University of Michigan. February 6, 2004.

“Even if you... be an end-in-itself”

My second contention is that animals should be included in the kingdom of ends, because we assert value to the lack of suffering even if they do not. First, our conception of value makes animals valuable. Kendrick 3:

“This also applies… source of value”

Second, duty to humanity entails duties to animals. We have duties to things humans assert value to, and we have feelings toward animals. Korsgaard 2:

“But these moral… with other people”

My third contention is that animals are not evil, so they deserve respect. Kendrick 4:

“Understanding, wit, judgment, … such as animals”

==EMPIRICISM AC== 

I defend the recognition of animal rights based on their ability to feel pain.

Truth comes from sensory experience. Locke:

An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. John Locke. 1690.

“We have hitherto… by one name”

The domain of reason is only an interpretation of experience, not to create new content. Locke 2:

“First, it perfectly… and nothing else”

Pleasure and pain are the simple ideas behind the complex ideas associated with good, bad, and justice.

First, all concepts of justice are grounded in those simple ideas. Locke 3:

“Pleasure and pain… of our passions”

Second, implementations of the theories of what good and bad are vary between people, and cannot be empirically verified. Hobbes:

The Elements of Law Natural and Politic by Thomas Hobbes, 1640.

“This motion, in… the same thing”

The standard is respecting the capacity to experience pleasure and pain.

Respecting these capabilities requires a rule or rights based approach.

A rights-based approach is the only way to actually stop violations of animals. It is all or nothing. Francione:

[1] Gary L. Francione Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law and Philosophy, Rutgers University School of Law -- Newark. Professor Francione is also co-director of the Rutgers University Animal Rights Law Center. ANIMAL RIGHTS AND ANIMAL WELFARE. Copyright (c) 1996 Rutgers University, The State of New Jersey. Rutgers Law Review.

“An earlier part… of any kind”

It is impossible to determine when consequences justify the breaking of rules that are beneficial on average. Thus, we need to set inviolable rules. Moore:

George Moore. Principia Ethica. 1903.

“Sinse, as I… to break it”

I contend that animals should be included in the rules to respect pleasure and pain.

First, animals feel pain. They have the physiological requirements and demonstrate the correct behavior when experiencing pain. Singer:

Peter Singer. Excerpted from Animal Liberation, 2nd edition, New York: Avon Books, 1990, pp. 10-12, 14-15.

“Nearly all the… mammals and birds”

Second, animals have natural ends defined by what kind of animals they are, and those natural ends are their good, which is morally relevant. Korsgaard:

[1] Fellow Creatures: Kantian Ethics and Our Duties to Animals. CHRISTINE M. KORSGAARD. The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Delivered at University of Michigan. February 6, 2004.

“Even if you… be an end-in-itself”

==Distinctions AC-== 

Recognition is defined as existence or validity.(OAD)

Justice is different than morality.

I'll concede to whatever theory interpretations people want, so we can actually debate.

Justice must be non-arbitrary-
1. Treats like cases alike

2. We can't benefit qualities of ourselves.

3. Only way to reach an agreed upon set of rules is to be non-arbitrary in the distribution of justice.
John Rawls. "A Theory of Justice."
"Existing societies are...of social justice."

Determinations of rights must be impersonal, from the point of origination. Rawls 2. IBID.
"in justice as...of social circumstances."

This is the best conception of justice because it accounts for the randomness of life. Rawls 3. IBID.
"justice as fairness...recognize self-imposed."

Moreover, absent a distinction, logic says extend rights to animals. Rachels.
"A reply to van de veer" James Rachels.
"In arguing that...say about all."

From the original position, we cannot regard species. Hilden-
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A Contractarian View of Animal Rights: Insuring Against the Possibility of Being a Non-Human Animal By Julie Hilden</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"rawls emphasizes that...fertile humans do."</span>



Creation of rights isn't the same as being a beneficiary. Rachels 2. IBID
"For example, normal... obligations to them."

the hypothetical nature of contracts allows us to hypothetically bargain for them. Huffman
Animals, Mental Defectives, and the Social Contract Tom Huffman Teikyo Westmar UniversityLeMars, Iowa
"So, if contractarian...one becomes nonrational."


we should reject distinguishing criterion because they have opened up the door to opression. Calarco
Mathew Calarco. //Zoographies. 2008.//
"Thomas birch makes...of moral concern."
==Negative== 
==AQUINAS NC== 

The form of agents, understood through their actions, defines what is good for that agent.. Boyle and Lavin:

[1] Goodness and Desire. Matthew Boyle and Douglas Lavin. Harvard University To appear in S. Tenenbaum, ed., Desire, Practical Reason, and the Good, Oxford UP, forthcoming 2010]. 10/15/09

“We can make… service of it”

This hierarchy of actions leads the judgments to an end point under which all other actions are contained. This is the form of the agent. Boyle and Lavin 2:

“We can begin… must be one”

This requires a teleological system with that contains all beings within one system, ordered toward an ultimate end. Wood writes:

Allen Wood. Kant on Duties Regarding Nonrational Nature. Aristotelian Society Supplementary. Volume 72. Issue 1. Page 189-210. June 1998.

“I won’t deny… would be purposeless”

Thus, the necessary and sufficient standard is consistency with the hierarchy of nature’s ultimate end.

Contention: The movement toward ends of animals and humans is different in a relevant way. St. Thomas Aquinas:

[1] St. Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica. 1274.

“I answer that… even irrational animals”

The good of animals is to be used for the good of humans. Aquinas 2:

“On the contrary… meat to you”

==KANT NC== 

Reason requires respecting only things with value independent of inclinations. Dean:

[1] Richard Dean [American University of Beirut]. The Value of Humanity in Kant’s Moral Theory. 2006. Oxford University Press.

“Something that has… all possible circumstances”

The only thing that is valuable independent of inclinations is the good will. Dean 2:

“This equivalence is … end in itself”

Thus, the standard is respecting the presence of a good will.

I contend that animals do not have the capacity for the good will. Leahy:

[1] Michael P.T.Leahy. Against Liberation: Putting Animals in Perspective. 1991 by Routledge. (Ellipses in original text).

“The human being … by individual intentions”

==WELFARE CP== 

The text of my advocacy is that justice requires the recognition of animal welfare, instead of animal rights. This recognizes that there are interests that caution against unnecessary harm of animals, but does not construct an animal right. I reserve the right to clarify.

Competition

Welfare definitionally different.

Gary L. Francione Professor of Law and Nicholas de B. Katzenbach Scholar of Law and Philosophy, Rutgers University School of Law -- Newark. Professor Francione is also co-director of the Rutgers University Animal Rights Law Center. ANIMAL RIGHTS AND ANIMAL WELFARE. Copyright (c) 1996 Rutgers University, The State of New Jersey. Rutgers Law Review.

“The theory of…without ‘unecessary’ suffering”

This is exemplified in law.
1999. 65 Brooklyn L. Rev. 895. COMMENT: "Four Legs Good, Two Legs Bad": n1 The Issue of Standing in Animal Legal Defense Fund, Inc. v. Glickman and its Implications for the Animal Rights Movement. Fiona M. St. John-Parsons. Ellipses in original

“Additionally, several logistical...independent jural standing.”

Net benefits

Rights destroy ability to make decisions
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">L.W. Sumner. The Moral Foundation of Rights. Oxford University Press. 1987.</span>

“The normative function…their increasing vacuity.”

Rights would be rejected.
Parsons 2,
(ibid0

“A third impediment…and significant repercussions”

==Reciprocity NC== 

the value is justice

Rights holders must have the capacity to respect others, in the sense that they must be agents that can reciprocally respect the rights of others. Jackson explains-
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Oderberg on Animal Rights Keith Burgess-Jackson</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"having put the...than-human way."</span>


If animals aren’t a part of the contracting process, then impartial rule makers wouldn’t extend rights to them. Rachels explains:

A Reply to Van De Veer* JAMES RACHELS
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"there is, however...set-up demand."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We would recognize animal’s rights, but they would be unable to reciprocate and recognize our rights as well.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]