= = 
If you want the URL addresses/cites to specific 2AC cards or have questions about the advantages, contact: [[mailto:eakatz123@gmail.com|eakatz123@gmail.com]]
If you want the URL addresses/cites to specific 1NC/2NC cards or have questions about previous strategies, contact: [[mailto:aatmuri@gmail.com|aatmuri@gmail.com]]
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Our Advantages have multiple scenarios, and we will usually read two to each in-round. We won't read redundant scenarios or advantages, in other words, we won't read two scenarios for different advantages (or just two advantages with one scenario) with the same impact.
==Constellation Advantages== 
===<span class="Underline">**Plan Text**</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should restore and substantially increase funding to the Constellation Program.**

===<span class="Underline">**Collaboration Advantage**</span>=== 
**Current NSP terminates US participation in the ISS by the end of 2015—locks the US out of international collaboration**
**NASA** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">October 20</span>**09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Seeking a Human Spaceflight program Worthy of a Great Nation (pg. 55)” BY: Review of U.S. Spaceflight and Plans Committee </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The current program </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of record...reaction to the current ISS plan.</span>

**Restoring Constellation is vital to forging international partnerships and creating collaboration**
<span class="Underline">**Newton and Griffin ’11**– *director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama’s 2010 policy is notable...but it makes poor policy.</span>

**Space collaboration spills over to terrestrial relations**
**Sabathier et. al 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]] , FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The ISS program, along...__symbol of cooperation is valued.__</span>

**Specifically, US-China relations solve every major impact**
**McGiffert et al. ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - McGiffert is the VP and director of Smart Power Initiatives at CSIS. Commission co-chairs William S. Cohen Maurice R. William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense from January 1997 to January 2001. Prior to leading the Department of Defense, he represented Maine in the U.S. Senate from 1979 to 1997 and served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 1979. Secretary Cohen is a counselor and trustee for CSIS. Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations” 3/2009 csis.org/files/media/.../090304_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf</span>

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US-Chinese ties could</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">//...//of their mutual ties.</span>

**US-Russian relations solve every major impact**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span>**Graham ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Thomas Graham is a senior director at Kissinger Associates. Previously, he served as special assistant to the president and senior director for Russia at the National Security Council. CSIS “US-Russia Relations” July 2008 csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In this uncertain world...often the case today.</span>

**Collaboration in space will allow for cooperation on climate monitoring—provides robust data critical to global policy changes**
**Lewis et al., 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There has been speculation...incorporated into public policy making.</span>

**Climate change leads to extinction**
**Mazo 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The best estimates for...__cultural and political changes__.</span>

**Collaboration allows for cooperative ventures in space that solve WMD development and terrorism**
**Graham 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Colonel, master’s candidate in strategic studies from the US Army War College</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel Richard V, US Army War College, “United States in Outer Space: Security Assurance and Preservation,”) </span>

__Space is the ultimate high__...__worldwide war on terror.__

**Nuclear terror means extinction**
<span class="cite">Morgan 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dennis, Professor @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies [South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, November, Science Direct])</span>

In a remarkable website...__suffering in a nuclear war__.

===<span class="Underline">**Industrial Base Advantage**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Fluctuations in American commitment to human space exploration will collapse the space industrial base. Uncertainty turns away qualified STEM workers and human capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Slazer, 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Vice President of the AIA, also Director NASA/Civil Space at McDonnell Douglas Corporation (Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18, http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d</span>

__Space programs are essential to__...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">should be pursued as sound economic stimulus. </span>

**Constellation is key to STEM jobs – key to the industrial base**
**Olson, 9****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. House of Representatives (R-TX), Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, Committee on Science and Technology (Pete, 12/10/09, prepared opening statement, “Decisions on the Future Direction and Funding for NASA: What Will They Mean for the U.S. Aerospace Workforce and Industrial Base?” before the Committee on Science and Technology, House of Representatives. Pgs. 20-21, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111hhrg54449/pdf/CHRG-111hhrg54449.pdf, pre-cancellation) PS</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Madam Chairwoman, thank you...yield back by time.</span>

**Only domestic STEM jobs can prevent aerospace collapse – no other alternatives solve**
<span class="Underline">**AIA, 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aerospace Industries Association, December 2oo8, Aerospace Industries Association's National Security Council and the Industrial Base and Workforce Committee: “A Special Report- Launching the 21st Century American Aerospace Workforce”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/report_workforce_1208.pdf]] NH)</span>

__Economic growth is unsustainable without__...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">declared workforce to be a priority.</span>

**The aerospace industrial base will collapse due to DOD budget cuts – we must take //immediate// action**
**Reuters, 3/14****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">most renowned news agency in the US, cites consensus from Lockheed (Andrea Shalal-Esa, 3/14/12, “Lockheed urges action on U.S. debt before election” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/14/us-budget-congress-aerospace-idUSBRE82D1HE20120314) CB</span>

__Lockheed Martin Corp__...<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">be affected, he said.</span>

**Any decline in aerospace spills over into the rest of the economy – we control the major internal link**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Aerospace Week, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(September 18) National Aerospace Week, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As the U.S. economy moves...minorities among our numbers.</span>

**Economic decline triggers global nuclear war**
**Royal, 10**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DoD, 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M. Phil – Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">periods</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===NASA Credibility Advantage=== 
**Obama’s NSP has crushed NASA’s credibility and has essentially put the agency on “life support”. Substantially investing in space exploration programs like Constellation is key to bolster credibility.**
**Friedman, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy//.// Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL (Lou, 3/7/11, The Space Review, “A dark future for exploration”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1795/1) DM</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I closed my column...headed for exploration oblivion.</span>

**Politicians are impatient and won’t wait 20 years for SLS to begin flight. Only a space exploration program ready to go sooner can solve.**
**Handberg, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Roger, 11/21/11, “American human spaceflight and future options, short- and long-term”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1974/1) WX</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As widely noted, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">on a regular basis.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**And, credibility is key in ___ areas—**</span>
====<span class="Underline">**Planetary Science**</span>==== 
**_ is planetary science:**
<span class="Underline">**The 2013 budget submission slashes funding for planetary science, indicating credibility is at an all-time low. Credibility is key to a substantial increase in funding throughout NASA.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Matson, 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – associate editor at Scientific American focusing on space, physics and mathematics (John, 3/20/12, “Mars Attacked: Planetary Scientists Vent Frustrations over Proposed Budget Cuts”, Scientific American, http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/2012/03/20/mars-attacked-planetary-scientists-vent-frustrations-over-proposed-budget-cuts/) EK</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Planetary scientists</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, usually an...the past several decades.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cuts will be devastating – American workers won’t be attracted to science and tech careers, which are key to economic well-being**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schiff and Culberson, 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US House of Representatives (Adam, John, 2/20/12, “Don’t Gut Planetary Science”, http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/120220-dont-gut-planetary-science.html) SF</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Obama’s proposed</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">competitive on our own.</span>

**Economic well-being checks nuclear conflict**
**Royal, 10**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DoD, 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M. Phil – Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how...ancillary to those views.</span>

====**Earth Science**==== 
<span class="Underline">**_ is Earth Science:**</span>
**NASA credibility maintains Earth Science – that’s key to check environmental collapse**
**Killeen, 5****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research(Timothy, 4/28/05, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]) SF</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is clear after</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">would be available today.</span>__

**Ozone depletion causes extinction**
**Greenpeace, 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer”, [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]]) SF</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">of life on earth. </span>__

**Air pollution causes extinction**
**Driesen, 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of Law, Syracuse, Buffalo Environmental Law Journal (David, fall, 2002 / spring, 2003) LN</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Air pollution can make</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">both of these concerns.</span>__

====**ExoMars**==== 
<span class="Underline">**_ is ExoMars:**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Proposed cuts and NASA’s exit from ExoMars have also tanked credibility and will ruin cooperation with the ESA – budget problems need to be fixed and a substantial investment is key to bolstering credibility**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leone, 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – reporter for Space News, covering NASA from Washington, D.C. (Dan, 2/24/12, “NASA Raids Outer Planets Budget To Fund Fast Start on Mars Reboot”, http://www.spacenews.com/civil/120224-nasa-raids-outer-planets-budget-fund-mars.html) EK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NASA is starting the...be held in St. Louis.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Space cooperation spills over into broader areas of relations – NASA-ESA cooperation would thus strengthen US-EU relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]] , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ISS program, along...</span>__symbol of cooperation is valued<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__

**US-EU relations prevent devastating bio- and cyber-terror attacks**
**Hamilton, 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations at Johns Hopkins University (Daniel, 6/11, Future of Transatlantic Relations, FDCH Congressional Testimony, Lexis)</span>

It is unlikely that...at greater risk of attack.

**Bioweapons cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs, 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group (Richard, 6/9/02, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>

Of all the weapons...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How slippery is this slope?</span>

**This outweighs nuke war – larger targets, harder to treat, and psychological response**
**Roth et al., 1** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Paul B. Roth, MD, **Brian Hjelle, MD,** *John K. Gaffney, BBA, CEM, TEMT-P ("Bio-Medical Aspects of Bio-Terrorism and a Call to Action", edited by Joseph Rosen MD and Charles Lucey MD/JD/MPH, Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294) WEA</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Not since the height...</span>__weapon in and of itself.__

**Cyberattacks will collapse US infrastructure – risks world war**
**Derene 9** (Glenn, "How vulnerable is U.S. infrastructure to a major cyber attack?", Popular Mechanics, April, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military_law/4307521.html]])

__The next world war__...__cripple big, essential machines__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Smart Power Advantage=== 
**The status quo policy of leading through military force is eroding American leadership; a large investment in soft power is necessary to communicate to the world that America is not acting unilaterally.**
**Nye and Armitage, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University and Former Assistant Secretary of Defense (Joseph, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, & Richard, President of Armitage International, Report made in collaboration with about 50 other congressmen, “CSIS Commission of Smart Power – A Smarter, more Secure America”, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">America is a country of</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...__far into the future__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Declining space spending has killed the perception of effective space policy. Only a massive space exploration program can balance soft and hard power and get America back on track.</span>**
**Sabathier and Faith, 8 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Space Initiatives at CSIS, (Vincent G., French Space Policy Reprehensive to the US, and G. Ryan, Space Program Manager for CSIS, Center for Strategic & International Studies: “Smart Power through Space” http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080220_smart_power_through_space.pdf)</span>

__The attractiveness of space__...per American per day.

**Cancellation of Constellation ended all cooperative efforts in space that sustained leadership. Restoration immediately pays dividends and makes us the global leader once again.**
**Newton and Griffin, 11**–<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)</span>

<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">President Obama's 2010 policy...it makes poor policy</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This policy of combining hard and soft power is known as “smart power”, through which we can solve terrorism.</span>**
**Nye, 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– created the theory of “smart power,” distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard, more credentials may be in the first card of this advantage (Joseph S., 3/7/08, “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Etzioni is correct that...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">developing one for Iran.</span>

====<span class="Underline">**Bioterror**</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Currently, the world is vulnerable to bioweapons, something terrorists have the tech to create. Recent statements indicate al Qaeda is ready to fire them and will soon.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Garrett, 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— a science writer for Newsday, Garrett won a Pulitzer, a Peabody and two Polk awards; in 2004, she joined the Council on Foreign Relations as Senior Fellow for Global Health. She is an expert on public health – and the fascinating ways that health policy affects foreign policy and national security (Laurie, 1/5/12, Foreign Policy, “Flu Season”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full) BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">__When flu scientist Ron__...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the synthetic-biology revolution.</span>__

**Bioweapons cause extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs, 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group (Richard, 6/9/02, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__Of all the weapons__...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">slippery is this slope?</span>

**This outweighs nuke war – larger targets, harder to treat, and psychological response**
**Roth et al., 1** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Paul B. Roth, MD, **Brian Hjelle, MD,** *John K. Gaffney, BBA, CEM, TEMT-P ("Bio-Medical Aspects of Bio-Terrorism and a Call to Action", edited by Joseph Rosen MD and Charles Lucey MD/JD/MPH, Institute for Security Technology Studies at Dartmouth, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~engs05/md/whitepapers/Emerging_Tech/ETech.pdf#page=294) WEA</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Not since the height...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in and of itself</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====**East Asian Conflict**==== 
**Refer to Westminster PP for cites on the East Asian Conflict impact scenario to this advantage.**

====**Syrian-Israeli War**==== 
**Prolonged Syrian civil war threatens to spark tension in the Middle East and will trigger Syrian-Israeli war. The combination of hard and soft power is key to end internal conflict.**
**Berti, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD candidate in international security studies at the Fletcher School [Tufts University], and a doctoral fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies [Tel Aviv University] (Benedetta, 3/15/12, “To help Syria, apply a mix of ‘hard’ and ‘soft’ power”, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2012/0315/To-help-Syria-apply-a-mix-of-soft-and-hard-power) EK</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The debate over the</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...__of a captive population.__</span>

**Syrian-Israeli war leads to chemical and nuclear warfare**
**Leser, 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– specialist in politics, science, and health (Steven, “Middle East Conflict - Israel, Syria and Iran Headed for Non-Conventional War likely to Destroy all Three plus Lebanon”)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is difficult to</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">unwilling to take action.</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**Assad’s acceptance of the peace plan is just lip service without actual action. If conflict continues, it will spill over into the rest of the Middle East.**</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**AP, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associated Press (3/27/12, “Why Syria’s uprising matters: civil war, regional upheaval”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/middle_east/why-syrias-uprising-matters-civil-war-regional-upheaval/2012/03/27/gIQANs1eeS_story.html) EK</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__uprising in Syria__...__tensions are boiling over.__</span>

**Middle Eastern conflict goes global and nuclear**
**Steinbach, 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization (John, 3/2002, Nuclear specialist at the Center for Research on Globalization, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile,</span> __the existence of__...__trigger a world conflagration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." (44).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">STEM Advantage</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Fluctuations in American commitment to human space exploration will collapse the space industrial base. Uncertainty turns away qualified STEM workers and vital human capital**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Slazer, 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Vice President of the AIA, also Director NASA/Civil Space at McDonnell Douglas Corporation (Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18, http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d</span>

__Space programs are essential__...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as sound economic stimulus.</span>

**<span style="color: #110101;">Uncertainty has already started to impact the STEM workforce – recent studies prove shortages are occurring in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="color: #110101;">Smydo, 10</span>**<span style="color: #110101; font-size: 8pt;"> (Joe, 2/9/10, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “STEM education is the root of concern” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/09041/948078-298.stm</span><span style="color: #110101; font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span class="Underline">__Mr. Wu does see__...__950 for electrical engineers__.</span>

**Constellation is key to STEM jobs**

**Olson, 9****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. House of Representatives (R-TX), Ranking Minority Member, Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, Committee on Science and Technology (Pete, 12/10/09, prepared opening statement, “Decisions on the Future Direction and Funding for NASA: What Will They Mean for the U.S. Aerospace Workforce and Industrial Base?” before the Committee on Science and Technology, House of Representatives. Pgs. 20-21, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111hhrg54449/pdf/CHRG-111hhrg54449.pdf, pre-cancellation) PS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Madam Chairwoman, thank you...I yield back by time.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Only domestic STEM jobs can prevent a collapse of the industrial base – no other alternatives solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**AIA, 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Aerospace Industries Association (12/08, Aerospace Industries Association's National Security Council and the Industrial Base and Workforce Committee: “A Special Report- Launching the 21st Century American Aerospace Workforce”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/report_workforce_1208.pdf]]) NH</span>

Economic growth is unattainable...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">workforce to be a priority.</span>

**The aerospace industrial base will collapse due to DOD budget cuts – we must take //immediate// action**
**Reuters, 3/14****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">most renowned news agency in the US, cites consensus from Lockheed (Andrea Shalal-Esa, 3/14/12, “Lockheed urges action on U.S. debt before election” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/14/us-budget-congress-aerospace-idUSBRE82D1HE20120314) CB</span>

__Lockheed__<span class="Underline"> __Martin Corp (LMT.N), the__...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be affected, he said.</span>

**Any decline in aerospace spills over into the rest of the economy – we control the major internal link**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Aerospace Week, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(September 18) National Aerospace Week, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the U.S. economy...minorities among our numbers.</span>

**Economic decline triggers global nuclear war**
**Royal, 10**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DoD, 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M. Phil – Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how</span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ancillary to those views.</span>

<span class="Underline">**STEM s****hortages cause a ripple effect on the supply chain, collapsing air and space power – human spaceflight key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Thompson 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“The aerospace workforce” federal news service)</span>

Aerospace systems are of ...space sector relies on<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Air power is critical to deterrence. The alternative is WMD conflicts.**
**Tellis, 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– senior political scientist - RAND (Ashley, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This subsection attempts to ...frames examined in this report.</span>

===Solvency=== 
**Constellation is proven to work; the only barrier to success is proper funding.**
**Cernan, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Captain Eugene A., USN (ret.), Commander, Apollo 17, Astronaut (ret., last man on the Moon), Testimony before the Committee on Science and Technology, United States House of Representatives, May 26, 2010. http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/052610_Cernan.pdf)</span>

__Constellation itself is__...of 2005 and 2008.

**The Augustine Commission was rigged, inflating Constellation’s predicted costs by 50%, and triggering Congress to call for its cancellation. We have the funding capabilities to finish building new rockets by 2015.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horowitz, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Scott, former NASA Associate Administrator of Exploration Systems Missile Directorate; re-published by AmericaSpace via Jim Hillhouse, prolific space columnist and shuttle technician, “A Trajectory to Nowhere, May 8, http://www.americaspace.org/?p=7621</span>

The commission also used...__gets reduced__ by 25%.

**Obama’s NSP will destroy NASA as an agency – only a reactionary step to Constellation can enable space exploration and solve our advantages**
**Friedman, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy//.// Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL (Lou, 3/7/11, The Space Review, “A dark future for exploration”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1795/1) DM</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I closed my column...headed for exploration oblivion.</span>

**Constellation is the //only// thing that can drive innovation**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newton & Griffin, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (Elizabeth K. and Michael D., Center for System Studies, University of Alabama in Huntsville 1/8/11, “United States space policy and international partnership,” Space Policy, Vol. 27)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US industry holds a...development down the line.</span>

**Budget reductions are the primary reason why NASA isn’t functioning properly – substantially increasing funding to NASA programs solves**
**Kelly, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – spent eight years covering the space industry for FLORIDA TODAY, responsible for the newspaper's local news, sports, business and features coverage (John, 9/14/09, “NASA Not As Expensive As You Think”, http://www.floridatoday.com/content/blogs/space/2009/09/nasa-not-as-expensive-as-you-think.shtml) EK</span>

__The American people spend__...__budget__ to 0.6 percent.

==2AC Add-ons== 
===Mars Mission Add-on=== 
**NASA has given up on Mars because of funding shortfalls—a human mission is possible and the US is uniquely key**
**Kaplan, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Executive Editor of PC Magazine (Jeremy A., “NASA Scientist Publishes 'Colonizing the Red Planet,' a How-To Guide”, edited for gendered language, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/12/30/nasa-scientist-publishes-colonizing-red-planet-guide/#ixzz1QUXVmFVN)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">staffed</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">] </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">mission to</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in half the time."</span>__

**Properly funding the full Constellation Program is the cornerstone to a Mars Mission**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Thompson, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Chief Financial Officer (Loren, April 11, “Human Spaceflight”, Lexington Institute, http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/library/resources/documents/Defense/HumanSpaceflight-Mars.pdf) DM</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">By that time, though,...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">self-sustaining human colony.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**Constellation’s reliance on human capital strengthens space exploration and enables a Mars Mission fastest – only a substantial investment solves**</span>
**I3E, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 7th 2009 through March 14th 2009, Science Direct, “Between the moon and Mars: Piloted and surface operations at a NEO”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In late 2006, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NASA's</span>__...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Belt or Trojan asteroids.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**Tech //spinoffs// from Mars Mission solve water scarcity**</span>
**Rampelotto, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Biology, Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Brazil (Pabula Henrique, “Why Send Humans to Mars? Looking Beyond Science”[[http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars151.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">engineering challenges necessary</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">of resources on Earth.</span>__

**Water scarcity escalates to nuclear war**
**NASCA, 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Water shortages – only a matter of time,” National Association for Scientific and Cultural Appreciation, http://www.nasca.org.uk/Strange_relics_/water/water.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Water is one of...be no obvious answer.</span>

===Colonization Add-on=== 
**Overpopulation is inevitable without action – will eventually cause extinction**
**Brown 2006** - professor of physiology at West Virginia University (Paul, Notes from a Dying Planet, p. 3-4)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The threats we face</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">before it’s too late</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**Space colonization is try or die – only hope for human survival**
**Sandberg et al, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Anders Sandberg—James Martin Research Fellow, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford University; Jason G. Matheny, Special Consultant, Center for Biosecurity, U of Pittsburgh Medical Center and PHD Candidate Health Policy @ Johns Hopkins; and Milan M. Cirkovic, Senior Research Associate, Astronomical Observatory, Belgrade and Asst. Prof of Physics U of Novi Sad in Serbia and Montenegro) Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists Online, September 9, 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Other measures to reduce...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">survival of the species."</span>__

**Constellation is key to colonizing the Moon and beyond—the only way to stop overpopulation is to vote aff**
**Crisostomo** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in 20</span>**10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christian, staff writer for opentalk magazine “NASA's Constellation Program Planning To Take Initiative For Moon Colonization” http://www.opentalkmagazine.com/technology/space-discovery/3021-nasas-constellation-program-planning-to-take-initiative-for-moon-colonization.html, 11/12]BJ</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">“That's one small step...leader in human space flight</span>

**Beating China to the Moon is key to free market capitalism**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Spudis</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">MS in Planetary Geology PhD Geology </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2010</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Space Ref http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewnews.html?id=1376</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The struggle for soft power</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">on this new frontier.</span>__

**Capitalism is key to prevent extinction.**
**Rockwell 2002** (Llewellyn H., President of the Mises Institute, The Free Market, “Why They Attack Capitalism”, 20:10, October, http://www.mises.org/freemarket_detail.asp?control=418&sortorder-articledate)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If you think about...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">enterprise is perfectly abysmal.</span>

=Negative= 
==Cites== 
Refer to Westminster HX

==Strategy== 
Note: if there's only one disad, assume we also had case defense
===Woodward (Novice)=== 
Round 2: SPS vs Niles North
SPS CP

Round 3: SPS vs Lexington
SPS CP

Round 6: Nanosats vs Chattahoochee
Recommend CP
Cybersecurity DA

===Vestavia (Novice)=== 
Round 1:SPS vs Woodward
T-Human

Round 3: SPS vs Mountain Brook
SPS CP

===GFCA State (Novice)=== 
Round 1: SPS vs Johns Creek
Astropolitics K
Payroll Tax Cuts DA
T-Human

Round 3: SPS vs Cairo
Astropolitics K
Payroll Tax Cuts DA
T-Human

Octafinals: SPS vs Pace
Taoism K
Payroll Tax Cuts DA

Quarterfinals: SPS vs Pace
Astropolitics K
Case Turns

===Milton (Varsity)=== 
Round 2: Irony vs Alpharetta (Kritikal)
Taoism K
Anonymity PIC

Round 3: Astrosociology vs Riverwood International (Kritikal)
T-Commercial

===Grady (Varsity)=== 
Round 1: Space Corps vs Marist
Payroll Tax Cuts DA

Round 3: Space Guard vs Northview
Astropolitics K

Round 5: Colonization vs North Atlanta
OSTP CP
Payroll Tax Cuts

===Peach State (Junior Varsity)=== 
Round 1: Nanosats vs Chattahoochee
Obama Bad DA

Round 3: ASATs vs Houston County
Code of Conduct CP
Hegemony DA

Round 5: SPS vs Sequoyah
Spending DA
Utilitarian Framework (against their Poverty Advantage)

===Northview (Varsity)=== 
Round 1: TSATs vs Woodward
T-Human
We also called out Rahim and Nasir for "cheating"

Round 4: SPS vs Roswell
Orbital Specification

===Samford (Novice)=== 
Round 2: SPS vs Mountain Brook
Earth Science DA

Round 3: Asteroid Detection vs University School of Nashville
Spending DA
Earth Science DA

Round 6: Asteroid Mining vs Vestavia
Taoism K