If you want the article from an aff card or want neg cites for a specific arg send us an email:

molly.kate.moore@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="text-align: left;">1AC - Golden Desert</span>== 
===<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>=== 
DOD is attempting to fix SSA it will fail due to immature technology and poor acquisition
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 11</span>-“Space Acquisitions Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-545]]
__DOD has significantly …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> earlier than its stated intent.</span>
**Current SSA systems have significant gaps – south hemisphere, Africa, South Ameirca, and Asia**
(<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weeden et al 10</span> –Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor, Secure World Foundation Paul Cefola,Technical Advisor, Secure World Foundation Jaganath Sankaran, PhD Candidate and Graduate Assistant, Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland (CISSM), “Global Space Situational Awareness Sensors” 9/17/10 www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/amos_jaganath.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">tates </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 11pt;">military operates </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…technical intelligence on missile launches. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">SSA data isn’t adequately integrated now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Times;">Turnbull ’08</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Times;"> – Maj, USAF, Lead, Simulation Engineering, Plans and Integration, Joint Functional Component Command for Global Strike, US Strategic Command, Offutt AFB (Wallace ‘Rhett’, “Moving Beyond SSA: An Attribution Architecture for Space Control,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Times;">, RBW)</span>
The United States collects … before maneuvering to a target.


===<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16pt;">Thus the plan…</span></span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Defense should deploy and fully integrate a </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">distributed real time awareness global network system</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> utilizing evolutionary acquisition practices. </span>**



===<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 2 is Miscalculation:</span>=== 
Space debris is inevitable—it will cause collisional cascading in space for at least one million years
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Imburgia 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Apr 4, 2011 Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia (Lieutenant Colonel Joseph S. Imburgia (B.S., United States Air Force Academy (1994); J.D., University of Tennessee College of Law (2002); LL.M., The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center & School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, Va. (2009)) is a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia. He is a member of the Tennessee and the Supreme Court of the United States bars, and he is a member of the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law. Prior to becoming a Judge Advocate, Lieutenant Colonel Imburgia was a Targeting Officer, United States Strategic Command, Offutt Air Force Base, Neb. The views expressed in this Article are those of the author and should in no way be inferred as representing the views of any part of the U.S. government.)</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'CenturySchoolbook,Italic',serif;">The Problem Is Getting Worse </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fundamental dilemma … 1 million to 10 million years.</span>”107
The US Joint Space Operations Center (JSPOC) is releasing inaccurate information—causes miscalc
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NSTAC 09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The President’s National Aecurity Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009,</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf)</span>
Operators continuously and … or appropriately skilled technicians.
China and Russia are dependent on that data
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rose 11</span> Frank A. Rose Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance Space Security Through the Transatlantic Partnership Conference, European Space Policy Institute and Prague Security Studies Institute Prague, Czech Republic June 13, 2011
Our efforts include …Vandenberg Air Force Base in California.
**Poor Russian intelligence warning would result in miscalculation and nuclear war with the US**
**Lewis 04’** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">- Post doctorate Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, (Jeffery, July “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Conflict Scenarios” Center for Defense Information, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is the second … American first strike during this period.56</span>

We’ll win timeframe and probability, but evaluate magnitude first – US-Russia nuclear exchange the only threat to human survival
Bostrom 2 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Nick Bostrum, professor of philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A much greater …</span>encounter in the 21st century.

**<span style="background-color: white;">30 minutes to a massive nuclear war between the U.S. and Russia</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693] </span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">As for the … surely have taken place.</span>__

**Russia couldn’t be more vulnerable—the risk of nuclear miscalculation is higher than ever**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AP 11-17</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS November 17, 2011, 12:32 pm ET “Russian Military Chief Warns Of Nuclear War Risks”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW (AP) — </span>__Russia is facing …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all-volunteer military would be too costly.</span>
**Dependence, vulnerability and poor technology proves the plan is key**
**Ziegler 07’** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS) Dustin P. Ziegler, Major, USAF April 2007 Blue Horizons Paper Center for Strategy and Technology</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Air War College)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Dependence on Space </span>__It is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … explore DRAGNETS in detail.</span>


Awareness is key to space security – allows defensive measures, prevents miscalculation and escalation in a crisis by creating distinctions between threats and non-threats
**MacDonald 08’** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">former assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as well as senior director for science and technology on the National Security Council staff (Bruce W, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security,” i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/China_Space_CSR38.pdf, RBW)</span>
SSA is the ability …<span style="font-size: 12pt;">retaliation or deterrence strategy. </span>

**A distributed real time awareness global network in space can solve**
**Ziegler 07’** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS) Dustin P. Ziegler, Major, USAF April 2007 Blue Horizons Paper Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DRAGNETS CONCEPT Overview In the future, …</span> __spectrum of missions.__
JSPOC is the only institution capable of establishing international cooperation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shafran 11 </span>by Maj. Stacie Shafran (Capt. Stacie N. Shafran, 32 Chief, 355th Fighter Wing Public Affairs, U.S. Air Force http://azstarnet.com/events/40-under-40/article_37ba3a2c-4b0a-5d90-98cd-d522a5c13782.html#ixzz1buC7Hz4H) 14th Air Force Public Affairs 2/24/2011 - VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. (AFNS) – JFCC-Space commander highlights need for improved space situational awareness
Lt. Gen. Susan Helms, … of Israel can be proud."



===<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 3 is Leadership:</span>=== 
<span class="Author-Date">China is taking the high ground to establish space dominance—increased understanding is key to superiority </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brownfield 8-19</span> by Mike Brownlfield, August 19, 2011 at 10:14 am Mike Brownfield is Assistant Director of Strategic Communications at The Heritage Foundation. He serves as editor of The Foundry, as well as the "Morning Bell," one of Washington’s most widely read and influential e-newsletters. Mike hails from Southeast Michigan and practiced law in Chicago, Illinois. “Morning Bell: China Threatening U.S. Space Superiority”
Yesterday in New York City, …<span style="font-size: 12pt;">itself, its friends, and allies.</span>
<span class="Author-Date">Russia is accelerating the expansion and modernization of its space program</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg News-11 </span>(By Ilya Arkhipov and Lyubov Pronina - Apr 5, 2011 8:08 AM MT<span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span> [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-04/russia-speeds-up-moon-mars-plans-as-u-s-may-cut-space-funds.html]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia may accelerate … new federal space program</span>,
With the launch of the Galileo, Europe has made clear its intention to end US dominance of GPS and boost military capabilities
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Garasco)Guarasico 10-24</span> by Francesco Guarascio Senior Messaging Engineer at Wind Telecomunicazioni Past: Senior Network Engineer at Wind Telecomunicazioni S.p.A. Education: MIP-Politecnico Di Milano, Università degli Studi della Calabria Summary:Data network design and configuration and good experience using Cisco and HP devices. Very good knowledge of network and email protocols. Interes... 24 October 2011 Galileo - a new frontier in space for Europe [[http://www.publicserviceeurope.com/article/1025/galileo-a-new-frontier-in-space-for-europe]]
Just as it did for Phoenicians … French Research Minister Laurent Wauquiez.
A multilateral model of unipolarity solves heg bad args
Lou <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 11</span> -- former Executive Director of The Planetary Society, Director of the Society's LightSail Program, former Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at NASA Jet Propulsion Labs, (The Space Review, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2/14</span>/2011 “American leadership”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1778/1]])
“American Leadership” is a phrase …<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and international political agenda.</span>
**Absent US commitment to space, leadership will falter – this kills the US led international system**
**Stone 11’**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Christopher Stone 3/14/11(Strategy Integration Analyst at National Guard Bureau, Vice President at Falcon Research, Inc, Space Strategy Planner at United States Air Force, The Space Review, Space think tank, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Recently, Lou Friedman …</span> __objectives “worthy of a great nation__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">”.</span>

US leadership solves all other impacts – collapse of primacy results in great power wars 
Thayer 6- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bradley A.,, The National Interest, November -December, “In Defense of Primacy”, lexis) (Professor of Political Science Education at Baylor University: B.A., University of Arizona M.A., University of Chicago Ph.D., University of Chicago Bradley Thayer focuses on international politics, including international relations theory; grand strategy; United States national security policy generally and nuclear deterrence, proliferation, and terrorism specifically; the rise of China; NATO and transatlantic relations; and insights derived from the life sciences into political-behavioral topics, including the origins of war and ethnic conflict and the dynamics of suicide terrorism. Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota. He has served as a consultant to the Rand Corporation and has briefed the Pentagon's Office of Net Assessment, as well as other components of the Department of Defense. Before coming to Baylor, he taught at Missouri State University’s Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, a department located in the Washington, D.C. From 2004-2008, he was an associate editor of Politics and the Life Sciences, the scholarly journal of the Association for Politics and the Life Sciences, to whose Executive Council he was elected in 2005.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A remarkable fact about … </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">hope of solving the world's ills. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. military is the only one with capability to do the plan</span>**
**Weeden 2k9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the meantime</span><span class="story">__, …includes adversarial intent.__</span>
<span class="story"> </span>
==<span class="story">Other cards sometimes in the 1ac</span>== 
<span class="story">**Note: we change these out depending on the judge and the neg team**</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Abandoning policy discussion for the purpose of epistemological questioning paralyzes all action and causes violence</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Darryl </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Jarvis</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> (Director of the Research Institute for International Risk and Lecturer in International Relations, The University of Sydney) </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">“International relations and the challenge of postmodernism” p. 128-9</span>
__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">More is the </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">… __and recondite debate?__</span>


There are no prior questions to problem oriented IR- empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action – we get the impacts of the aff on the same level
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Owen 02</span> David Owen, 2 Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7
Commenting on the ‘philosophical …<span style="font-size: 12pt;">potentially </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">vicious circle arises.</span>

**Extinction first** 
**Bostrom 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Oxford philosophy professor (Nick, April, Humanity's biggest problems aren't what you think they are, transcribed from video 5:22 to 5:52, http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/44, AG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Then, even a </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> you could hope to achieve. </span>

<span class="story"> </span>
=Negative= 

==Strategies== 
===Valley=== 

Round 1 v. Oak Park (Cyborg)
2nr was cap K with a zizek alt

Round 3 v. Wayzata (DSCOVR)
2nr was T- Human

Round 6 v. Marquett (Solar Sails)
2nr was cap K

Doubles v. Rosenmount (SSA)
2nr was cap K

===Glenbrooks=== 

Round 2 v. ??
2nr was DoD counterplan and politics

Round 4 v. Brophy (SPS)
2nr was dod counterplan and trade off da

Round 6 v. Cherry Creek (BMD)
2nr was T-Human

Round 7 v. ?? (Dark matter aff)
2nr was cap K

===Alta=== 

Round 1 v. Hunter (lunar mining)
2nr was ESA counterplan and weps disad

Round 4 v. Skyline (Queer theory)
2nr was x-t

Round 6 v. Bingham (CLARREO)
2nr was psychoanalysis

Round 7 v. George Washington (Asteroid mining)
2nr was ESA counterplan and spending disad

===Blake=== 

Round 1 v. Wayzata (Sat Hardening)
2nr was NASA counterplan and dod trade off

Round 4 v. bloomington (SPS)
2nr was pyschoanalysis

Round 5 v. Wayzata (DSCOVR)
2nr was ESA counterplan and internal net benefit

===Golden Desert=== 

Round 2 v. CPS (DSCOVR)
2nr was pyschoanalysis

Round 3 v. GBS (Solar Sails)
2nr was ESA counterplan and spending disad

Round 6 v. Notre Dame (ORS)
2nr was ESA counterplan and spending disad
----
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]