[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AC 1</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No authors defend sacrificial beneficence. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Leonard **Peikoff**, Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand. [[http://peikoff.com/opar/altruism.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“The advocates of…their periodic fixes”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Humans are altruistic. Warneken F, Hare B, Melis AP, Hanus D, Tomasello M (2007) Spontaneous Altruism by Chimpanzees and Young Children. PLoS Biol 5(7): e184. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0050184</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Debates about altruism… humans and chimpanzees” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">McNamara defines permissible. Paul McNamara. “Deontic Logic.” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. April 2010. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-deontic/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“These assert that…Definitional Scheme (TDS)”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ian **Gough** defines **need.** Gough, Ian. “Economic Institutions and the Satisfaction of Human Needs” Journal of Economic Issues. Vol. 28: No. 1. March, 1994.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“We argue that… physical health and autonomy”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rational will confers goodness. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Barbara Herman, //Leaving Deontology Behind//. Print pp. 211.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Two things follow… of practical rationality”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reason is universal. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Engstrom,Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Reason, according to… he should do”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rational cognition requires universality. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009, p. 122-123.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“As we saw… of practical knowledge”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The act of affirmation establishing the one content as a content of practical cognition is equally the negation in which the opposing content is excluded. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“It belongs to… of such cognition”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Willing non-beneficence circumvents our needs. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Mutual Aid and Respect for Persons Author(s): Barbara Herman Source: Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 4 (Jul., 1984), pp. 577-602 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380319]] . Accessed: 01/10/2011 15:15</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“We are not… anything at all”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We can’t predict the future.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> Mutual Aid and Respect for Persons Author(s): Barbara Herman Source: Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 4 (Jul., 1984), pp. 577-602 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380319]] . Accessed: 01/10/2011 15:15</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“It is not… he be helped”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">FUL generates positive obligations. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Let us consider… imperfect particular wills”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">You can’t will independence. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“In contrast to… on their practicability”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AC 2</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Simple View is dumb.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korfmacher, Carsten (Linacre College, Oxford). “Personal Identity”. 2006. [[http://www.iep.utm.edu/person-i/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nowadays, the Simple…viewing the matter.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All that matters are connectedness and continuity.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Parfit, Derek. “Later Selves and Moral Principles”. //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study// (ed. Alan Montefiore). 1973. pp. 139-141.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">“The identity of…an earlier self’.”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">If time doesn’t matter, neither does the person the action affects.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit, Derek. “Later Selves and Moral Principles”. //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study// (ed. Alan Montefiore). 1973. pp. 157.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“This reply might…itself no importance’.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sacrificing one for many doesn’t sacrifice the one’s unconditional worth.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. Oxford University Press. 2000.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In such a…to save many.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Intuitions support rule consequentialism.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hooker, Brad. Ideal Code, Real World: A Rule-Consequentialist Theory of Morality. Oxford University Press. Pg. 29.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">“Does rule-consequentialism…duties are plausible.)”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Giving people what they need produces a net good.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. One World: The Ethics of Globalization. Yale University Press. 2004. Pg. 42.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In practice, utilitarians…have the least.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There’s no act/omission distinction.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Persson, Ingmar (Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Kungshuset), “Two Act-Omission Paradoxes”. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society. Vol. 104. 2004.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are two…be killed permissible.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, aid is emprically very successful. Barder.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Owen Barder. Can Aid Work? Written Testimony Submitted to the House of Lords. Center for Global Development. July 2011.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"There is excessive...of the cost."</span>

==Negative== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">NC1</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We must extend the freedoms which we will for ourselves to others. </span>Engstrom, Stephen. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. Harvard University Press. 2009. Pg.18.
"Now on the interpretation...the same freedom."

Ripstein clarifies independence.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Ripstein, Arthur. //Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy.// Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 2009. 14-15.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"You are independent...he benefits you."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Unilateral acts of charity place the receiver in a state of dependency upon the will of another. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Garthoff, Jon. “Zarathustra's Dilemma and the Embodiment of Morality.” //Philosophical Studies// 117 (2004): 259–274. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"If she heeds...equality of persons."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">NC2</span>**
Morality has to account for the causal link between action and consequence.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Weinberg, Rivka. “It Ain’t My World.” //Utilitas//, 21.2 (2009): 144–162.</span>
"It is important...state of the universe."

General obligations dont account for this.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Weinberg, Rivka. “It Ain’t My World.” //Utilitas//, 21.2 (2009): 144–162.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"Discussing the bystander...state of affairs."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We have intuitions towards obligatory beneficience.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Weinberg, Rivka. “It Ain’t My World.” //Utilitas//, 21.2 (2009): 144–162.</span>
"This challenge also...on that obligation."

Obligating bystanders to act for the purpose of helping others creates infinite obligations. Derrida, Jacques. //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Gift of Death</span>//, trans David Willis. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1995.
“As soon as… scandal, and aporia”

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]