[[toc]]
To contact the Eden Prairie team, please email cite requests to [[mailto:eppolicydebate@gmail.com|eppolicydebate@gmail.com]]
Please specify which team you hit. Thanks. ^_^


=Affirmative= 
==1AC Greenhill== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention One is Inherency</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The US is rapidly expanding BMD capabilities in the status quo that will fail without SBMD deployment</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mooney, 08 (Kevin, staff writer for CNS News. “Space-Based Missile Defense Needed to Counter Global Threats, Experts Say” http://www.cnsnews.com/public/Content/Article.aspx?rsrcid=36145)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Only a space-based missile defense system capable of intercepting and destroying incoming warheads in the “boost phase” (shortly after they are launched) can adequately protect America from emerging global threats, national security experts told a forum hosted the Heritage Foundation on Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008. The ground- and sea-based systems deployed by the U.S. over the past few years are a promising start that can help guard against limited strikes from rogue powers such as North Korea and Iran, the Bush administration maintains. However, the existing system is not equipped to handle the more sophisticated weaponry and countermeasures that Russia and China are now developing, warned Amb. Hank Cooper, chairman of the missile defense research organization High Frontier. Moreover, rogue states like Iran “who know how to play the game” also are testing new missile technology that could be deployed against the U.S. in unconventional ways, Cooper suggested. One nightmare scenario involves a ship-borne Scud missile that could be used to launch and explode a nuclear weapon in the atmosphere over the U.S., creating an electromagnetic pulse that would fry electronics, he warned. The most compelling program design to date stems from President Reagan’s “Strategic Defense Initiative” (SDI), which was first spelled out in a March 1983 address, Cooper noted. Going back to the late 1980s and early 1990s, plans called for small, highly mobile, space-based interceptors called “brilliant pebbles” that would be housed in protective cylinders and armed with the ability to intercept and destroy incoming missiles. Former President George H.W. Bush endorsed the idea, although it ultimately was discontinued under the Clinton administration and has not been reactivated since that time, Cooper lamented. “We lost a generation of the best that came out of the SDI era in the early ‘90s and this has not been restored,” Cooper said. “This was an effective, affordable defense [concept] that could be used to stay ahead of countermeasures.” While the idea of missile defense remains controversial inside the United States, the spread of missile technology and heightened availability of destructive weaponry has not gone unnoticed in parts of Asia and Europe, where policymakers now seem keen on the idea of employing a protective shield, Jeff Kueter, president of the George Marshall Institute, observed in response to a question from CNSNews.com. “What we can see is a remarkable change in attitudes, particularly among some of our international partners, in recognizing the threat they face from ballistic missiles in their willingness to work with the U.S. to develop these capabilities,” he said. Kueter credited Japan for working in close cooperation with the U.S. to help build up sea-based anti-missile systems on the U.S. Navy’s Aegis Vessels. He also said America’s European partners have been moving in a positive direction. As CNSNews.com previously reported, there are now 26 NATO countries expressing formal support for missile defense. The multi-layered anti-missile system now in place includes a mix of ground- and sea-based systems that have the ability to attack incoming ballistic weapons in their mid-course and terminal phases, Kueter noted. Currently, the U.S. has 24 ground-based mid-course interceptors stationed in Alaska and California, with 30 planned for the end of this year, according to the U.S. Defense Department’s Missile Defense Agency (MDA). There also are 12 Aegis ships equipped with the surveillance and tracking systems needed to perform mid-course missile defense missions at the present time, and an additional six are scheduled to become a part of the fleet over the next few months, the MDA reports. Additional missile interceptors also will be installed as part of the Aegis system on 18 vessels in 2009, according to the MDA. The goal is to have 100 interceptors capable of engaging missiles in their terminal phase operating on Aegis before the end of next year, Kueter pointed out. The European Site Initiative also has gained momentum recently. Current plans call for 10 U.S. ground-based interceptors to be installed in Poland where they will operate in conjunction with a radar system in the Czech Republic. The missile interceptors will be placed at the Redzikovo Polish military base close to the Baltic Sea in the northern part of the country. Also on deck and ready for deployment in 2010 is the U.S. Army’s Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. It can protect against both short- and medium-range missiles and can do so at longer ranges and higher altitudes than the interceptors now in use. The THAAD system will complement existing anti-missile defenses – not replace them – adding another layer to America’s present multi-layered, anti-missile defense blanket. These additional steps are effective as far as they go -- but, ultimately, there is no substitute for a space-based defensive layer that can target enemy warheads in their most vulnerable, earliest stages, Cooper argued. “A space-interceptor system is actually multi-layered, in and of itself, because it has a global presence and is capable of intercepting a missile in the boost phase, or mid-course phase, or even in the high endo-atmosphere before the re-entry phase,” he said. The boost phase is a “great time” to hit the target because the rocket is still burning, is easy to see, and can be destroyed before any decoys are deployed, Cooper observed. In the absence of a space-based defense, there are two systems with boost phase implications currently in development: the Airborne Laser System and Multiple Kill Vehicles. The Airborne Laser is housed inside a modified 747, where it would target moving missiles. Multiple Kill Vehicles, which are much smaller versions of the current crop of anti-missile interceptors, are capable of launching several kill vehicles at one time. “Neither system gets us where we need to be,” Kueter acknowledged in his talk. Still, he does see value in pursuing both systems as a way of sharpening and honing technology that can be more effectively applied as part of a larger missile-defense architecture over the long term.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space already weaponized – X-37B should have triggered the link and makes conflict over space more likely</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Malik 10- space.com managing editor citing Johnson-Freese and Dolman </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Tariq, “Air force says X37-B space plane is not a weapon,” 4/23/10, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2010/0423/Air-Force-says-X37-B-space-plane-is-not-a-weapon]], CJC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The hush-hush X-37B robotic space plane launched by the United States Air Force late Thursday is many things, but it's no space weapon, according to high-ranking official with the project. Gary Payton, Air Force deputy undersecretary of space programs, scoffed at speculation that the X-37B space plane is the vanguard for a space weapon fleet and said its main purpose is to test space technology, not orbital weapons. "I don't know how this could be called a weaponization of space," Payton told reporters this week before the launch. "Fundamentally, it's just an updated version of the space shuttle kinds of activities in space." Payton's comments were aimed at questions from reporters on how the secretive nature of this X-37B may appear to other countries with and without assets in space. The unmanned X-37B space plane, now known as the Orbital Test Vehicle 1, actually began its life as a civilian project founded by NASA in 1999 to test landing and other spacecraft technologies. NASA turned the program over to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) in 2004. The Air Force took control of the project in 2006. [X-37B spacecraft photos.] Space policy analyst Joan Johnson-Freese, professor of National Security Studies at the Naval War College in Newport, RI, has told SPACE.com that the X-37B could either be a major advancement in human spaceflight or be the unmanned end result of the Air Force's dream of building a crewed space plane. "In any case, it is likely that other countries will see it as another capability intended to assure the United States will be able to dominate access to and the use of space," she said in an earlier interview. Spaceship or weapon? Payton said that the X-37B launch is primarily aimed at testing fundamental technologies for reusable spacecraft and space applications. "If these technologies on the vehicle prove to be as good as we estimate, it will make our access to space more responsive, perhaps cheaper, and push us in the vector toward being able to react to warfighter needs more quickly," Payton said. But it is the spacecraft's appearance as a rapid-response vehicle that can be launched on unmanned rockets has led to some speculation of its potential as a space weapon. "Regardless of its original intent, the most obvious and formidable [potential use] is in service as a space fighter - a remotely piloted craft capable of disabling multiple satellites in orbit on a single mission and staying on orbit for months to engage newly orbited platforms," comparative military studies professor Everett Dolman, if the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at the Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala., has told SPACE.com. That capability "would be a tremendous tactical advantage." Dolman said it's still too early to determine what the ultimate use for the X-37B, or any future successors, may be. The X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle 1 was built by Boeing in Seal Beach, Calif., and weighs about 11,000 pounds (about 5,000 kg). This SPACE.com X-37B graphic illustrates some details of the space plane and its relative size. Mini-shuttle in space Air Force officials have said the X-37B will be tested as a "flexible space test platform to conduct various experiments and allow satellite sensors, subsystems, components and associated technology to be efficiently transported to and from the space environment." The space plane's payload bay can fit a couple of small satellites to be launched and deployed, but it does not have a robotic arm to grapple objects in space and retrieve them. That means it could be used to support military operations oversees by rapidly deploying space-based assets like small communications or reconnaissance satellites. "This launch helps ensure that our warfighters will be provided the capabilities they need in the future," said Air Force Col. Andre Lovett, 45th Space Wing vice commander, Launch Decision Authority for the mission, after the launch. The X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle also has a long loiter time in space. It has a solar array tucked in its payload bay that can keep it powered up for around 270 days, Air Force officials have said. "We, the Air Force, have suite of military missions in space and this new vehicle could potentially help us do those missions better," Payton said. Payton has said he envisions the X-37B has functioning much like the SR-71 Blackbird spy aircraft, being on alert in times of need to fly a mission that could support military operations. The time between flights, during a rush period of many space launches, could be as little as 10 to 15 days, Payton said. It is still unknown how long the first X-37B will remain in orbit. But when it returns, it is expected to autonomously fly itself through the Earth's atmosphere and land at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, with Edwards Air Force Base as a backup. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should implement a Brilliant Pebbles system and a Brilliant Eyes system beyond the mesosphere. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Contention Two is Space Power</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space challengers inevitable – If the US doesn’t move quickly we will lose our space assets and American hegemony will collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Redifer, 11 - LtCol, USMC, paper submitted in fulfillment of a degree from the Air War College at Air University (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE ,” 2/16, </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=downloadpaper&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960&rs=PublishedSearch]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The execution of such tasks will undoubtedly be extraordinarily difficult given the global nature of space, the increasing commercialization of space, and the worldwide reliance on products provided by space-based platforms. The demand for ready access to such services is exceptionally diverse and touches all aspects of government as well as the commercial sector; in some cases, the consumer may not even be aware that a particular product comes from space, which may make even explaining the importance of space protection difficult.9 This demand and the corresponding need to protect space-based assets is reflected in the NSP, as the dangers to US space systems are manifold, and include threats to satellites themselves such as kinetic attack, cyber attack, and jamming, as well as attacks on ground infrastructure.10 For the purposes of this paper, the threat analysis will focus on man-made hazards (vice environmental) that may be posed by potential US competitors or adversaries. Since the 2007 test of a kinetic kill anti-satellite system by the Chinese military, the threat in space posed by the People’s Republic of China has been of growing concern to the United States. China continues to build its national power through rapid economic growth and advances in science and technology, and recent developments in the People’s Liberation Army demonstrate a corresponding desire to extend Chinese influence beyond mainland China. Not surprisingly, Chinese military leaders have expressed both their interest in space and their understanding of the US dependence on space-based assets; in fact, “China is developing a multi-dimensional program to improve its capabilities to limit or prevent the use of space-based assets by potential adversaries.”11 Additionally, the Russian Federation continues to express concern over US space and missile defense initiatives; political-strategic uncertainty in US-Russian relations will likely always be present, and it is often unclear how US actions will be perceived by Russia. In late summer of 2009, General Alexander Zelin, Commander of the Russian Air Force, stated that “Russia's armed forces it must be ready to deter potential aggressors at regional and global levels in peaceful times and to rebuff an armed aggression” and asserted that Russia was developing a new surface-to-air rocket for the purpose of air and space defense12. In 2003, the Russians provided Iraq with GPS jammers, which proved moderately successful against some precision strike weapons 13 and, regardless of success, demanded attention from military planners. Despite numerous changes and upheaval since the end of the Cold War, Russia cannot be ignored: “[s]ince 1999, the United States’ share of global GDP has declined, while that of Brazil, Russia, India, and China (BRIC) has increased. By 2014, the International Monetary Fund predicts that BRIC countries will represent more than 27 percent of global GDP, and the United States and the EU will represent less than 20 percent each.”14 Finally, non-state actors as well as “rogue” states have expressed an interest and a capability to interfere with or deny the use of space systems. Indonesia has jammed a Chinese communications satellite, Iran and Turkey have jammed satellite broadcasts within their countries, and Iran jammed Voice of America broadcasts in 2003.15 Perhaps more significantly, Iran launched a 600-pound satellite into orbit in February 2009, an accomplishment that took years of preparation and indicates that Iran has developed a multi-stage rocket. Given the current US advantage and commensurate dependence on space power, a rogue state or non-state actor would have little to lose but much to gain by attacking US space systems and space infrastructure; such a state or non-state actor would also not suffer as directly as the US should it take an action that polluted the space environment. This complex and varied threat environment is compounded by the diversity of national and international agencies with a legitimate stake in space. A cursory glance at a depiction of the US National Security Space Community presented by Dr. Peter Hays of the National Security Space Office (Figure 1) 16 shows the diversity of agencies that both comprise and affect National Security Space (NSS)17; it can be seen that this community extends well beyond the NSS core members (DoD and the IC), and includes entities such as civil space agencies (e.g., NASA and NOAA) and the commercial sector. Each of these stakeholders has its own vested interests, roles, and equities in space, many of which may not align; however, the products and services that they produce are interwoven into all aspects of the US government and its citizenry. The NSS community is both a provider and a voracious user of space-based systems and the products these systems provide and, over the previous 20 years, this demand has increased dramatically, resulting in a dependence on force enhancement capabilities such as global positioning and satellite communications (SATCOM). Considering the use of precision guided munitions (which rely on GPS signals) it can be seen that 92% of the weapons employed during Desert Storm were unguided, while only 32% of the weapons employed during the air campaign portion of Operation Iraqi Freedom were unguided (Figure 2) 18. Additionally, growth and reliance in other areas, such as SATCOM and missile warning, are only expected to increase in the coming years, and the DoD is expected to continue to invest billions of dollars in major space programs well into the foreseeable future (Figure 3). In the civil sector, the NSP also directs the NASA Administrator and the Secretaries of Commerce and the Interior to undertake a number of tasks in space, to include maintaining the International Space Station through 2020 and beyond, maintaining a program for operational land remote sensing observations, and (in consonance with the Secretary of Defense) ensuring uninterrupted, operational polar-orbiting environmental satellite observations.19 These efforts will play a significant role in research and development and will aid in assessing climate change, predicting weather, and providing timely information in support of disaster relief operations, all functions that are of vital interest to US, state, and local governments as well as the population writ large. In order to carry out this ambitious directive, NASA has seen a significant budget increase, including a top line increase of $6.0 billion over 5 years (FY 2011-15) compared to the FY 2010 budget, for a total of $100 billion over five years. Given this budget increase, NASA intends to pursue new approaches to space exploration, conduct research and development on heavy-lift and propulsion technologies, seek increased utilization of the International Space Station, and accelerate the next wave of climate change research and observations spacecraft 20 – these goals are clearly linked to the NSP and the significant monetary investment in NASA programs is a clear indicator of the national importance attached to these initiatives. This growth has been matched by unprecedented investment in space systems and space products in the commercial sector, as a growing number of companies have developed both satellites and terrestrial systems that depend on space products. This growth has not been confined to the United States, as the international space market has swelled in recent years, with advances in space-based communications, weather monitoring, and ISR, as well as commercial space launch. Industry has clearly seen a demand and a market for satellite manufacturing and services as well as an increased desire for commercial launch capacity; in the satellite services sector alone, world revenue nearly doubled from 2004 to 2009, growing from $46.9 billion to $93.0 billion during this period (Figure 4)21. Additionally, satellite services revenue grew 11%from 2008 to 2009, and satellite manufacturing revenue increased by nearly one-third between 2008 and 2009, as greater numbers of high-value spacecraft were completed and launched.22 The United States has moved from a simple reliance on space-based platforms to one of dependence; the capital investment in the NSS, civil, and commercial space sectors is clear evidence of the unique and valuable nature of products from space. Given the threat posed by near peer adversaries and smaller actors, the United States must give thought to methods for defending its equities in space.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Conflict over space is inevitable – reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21 </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Weaponization inevitable – China, India, Japan, Korea developing now</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Voice of America 8/30 – Ivan Broadhead, 8/30/2011, “China Moves Toward Permanent Space Presence”, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/China-Moves-Toward-Permanent-Space-Presence-128773673.html]], BBQ</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">China is expected to launch its Tiangong 1 space laboratory in the coming days. A country that only eight years ago put its first taikonaut (astronaut) into orbit could, in eight more years, be the only country to possess a permanently-crewed space station. Chinese media report that the Tiangong 1, or “Heavenly Palace”, is being readied for flight at the Jiuquan launch facility in Inner Mongolia. The module represents the first element of China’s plan to develop a manned space station, which Beijing hopes will be fully operational by 2020. Professor Kwing-Lam Chan of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology is involved in analysis of China’s lunar program. He explains the objective of this first Tiangong mission: “It’s a lab for testing the connection between spacecraft: Shenzhou 8 will be sent [up] probably this year, and will be connected to Tiangong 1 for testing, but will not carry people,” he said. State media report that China’s space program aims to enhance the country’s “progress, power and prestige”. Under military authority, it has advanced rapidly despite European Union and U.S. embargoes on trading in defense-related technologies with China. The Shenzhou spacecraft emerged from Russian Soyuz technology in the late 1990s. A first manned space mission for China followed in 2003, making a national hero of the taikonaut Colonel Yang Liwei. Professor K.L. Yung of Hong Kong Polytechnic University is helping develop equipment that China will use on the Moon next year. He suggests that while China’s space program is no more advanced those of other space-faring nations, a team of elite engineers and scientists is making incremental and cost-effective progress. “The main reason is obviously salaries in China are not that high. The other reason is, they are developing a lot of their own components because of the high-tech embargo; it actually helps them.” With the International Space Station, funded by Russia, the United States, Canada, Japan and the EU, slated for retirement in 2020, Yung points out that China could soon emerge as the only nation with a permanent, manned space platform. The potential for such a strategic advantage in space, aligned with China’s ballooning defense budget, is causing international concern. Last week, the U.S. Defense Department published its annual report on China’s military capabilities. The report concluded that Beijing is developing “extensive space warfare technologies". The report also found little evidence that “China’s leaders have fully thought through the global effects of employment of these strategic capabilities”. Although Beijing insists it “opposes the weaponization of space”, India, Japan and Korea continue to play catch up with their own indigenous space programs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Terrestrial military dominance entirely dependent on space assets - weaponization key to their protection</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman 5</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The U</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">has embarked on a revolutionary military transformation designed to extend its dominance in military engagements. Space capabilities are the lynchpin of this transformation, enabling a level of precision, stealth, command and control, intelligence gathering, speed, maneuverability, flexibility, and lethality heretofore unknown. This twenty-first century way of war promises to give the United States a capacity to use force to influence events around the world in a timely, effective, and sustainable manner. And this is a good thing, a true transformation from conflicts past.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> That the process of transformation was well underway became evident in 1991, when the world’s fourth largest military was defeated in just ten days of ground combat. Unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft, and promising new missile interceptors publicly debuted. Arthur C. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Clarke went so far as to dub Operation DESERT STORM</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (ODS) </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the world’s first space war, as none of the accomplishments of America’s new look military would have been possible without support from space.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Twelve years later, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">in Operation IRAQI FREEDOM</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (OIF), </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">assertions as to the central role of space power could no longer be denied. America’s military had transitioned from space supported to a fully space enabled force, with astonishingly positive results</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">most of the nation’s current space power functions were successfully exercised in OIF</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, including space lift, command and control, intelligence including rapid battle damage assessment, timing and navigation, and meteorological support. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The tremendous growth in space reliance from OSD to OIF is evident in the raw numbers. Despite engaging with a 60 percent smaller force</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (fewer than 200,000 personnel v. over 500,000), </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">satellite communications usage increased four-fold</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, from 200 to 800 Mbps (Megabits per second) capacity. Newly possible operational concepts such as reach back (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) and reach forward (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) reconfigured the tactical concept of war. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The value of</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Predator and Global Hawk Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">UAVs), completely reliant on satellite communications and navigation for their operation, was confirmed.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Special Forces units, paradoxically tethered to satellite support and yet practically unfettered in their silent movements because of them, ranged throughout Iraq in independent operations that were extremely disruptive. But </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America’s striking power</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Strikes from standoff platforms, including Vietnam-Era B-52s, allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low death and collateral devastation. In ODS, 90 percent of munitions used were unguided. Of the ten percent that were guided, none was GPS capable. By OIF, 70 percent were precision guided, more than half of those from GPS satellites. In ODS, fewer than five percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By OIF, all were. During ODS, GPS proved so valuable to the army that it procured and rushed into theater over 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of one per company (about 200 personnel). By OIF, each army squad (6-10 soldiers) had at least one military GPS receiver. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">With such demonstrated utility and reliance, there is no question the US must guarantee space access if it is to be successful in future conflicts. Its military has stepped well over the threshold of a new way of war. It is simply not possible to go back to the violently spasmodic mode of combat typical of pre-space intervention</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The United States is now highly discriminating in the projection of violence, parsimonious in the intended breadth of its destruction. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">For the positive process of transformation to continue, however, space weapons must enter the combat inventory of the United States. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Only option is to weaponize space – critical to preserving hegemony. Weaponization by other nations inevitable – US needs to be first to prevent arms race</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is the context in which the world now exists. The relatively stable global hegemony of US dominance since 1945, punctuated by limited wars and shifting balances of opposition, has relied on technology-dominant global power projection. Today, that technology is wholly integrated and inextricable from space support, and no state relies more on space power for its economic and security well-being than the US. Any effort to deny space capabilities would be a direct challenge to its hegemonic power, and the United States must confront the usurper or abdicate its leadership position. To be sure, China’s increasing space emphasis and its cultural antipathy to military transparency suggests that a serious attempt at seizing control of space is in the works. A lingering fear is the sudden introduction of an unknown capability (call it Technology X) that would allow a hostile state to place multiple weapons into orbit quickly and cheaply. The advantages gained from controlling the high ground of space would accrue to it as surely as to any other state, and the concomitant loss of military power from the denial of space to America’s already-dependent military forces could cause the immediate demise of the extant international system. The longer the United States dithers on its military responsibilities, the more likely a potential opponent could seize low-earth orbit before America is able to respond. And in such circumstances, the US certainly would respond. Conversely, if America were to weaponize space, it is not at all sure that any other state or group of states would find it rational to counter in kind. The entry cost to provide the necessary infrastructure is still too high—hundreds of billions of dollars, at minimum. The years of investment needed to achieve a comparable counter-force capability—essentially from scratch—would provide more than ample time for the United States to entrench itself in space and readily counter preliminary efforts to displace it. The tremendous effort in time and resources would be worse than wasted. Most states, if not all, would opt not to counter US deployments directly. They might oppose American interests with asymmetric balancing, depending on how aggressively it uses its new power, but the likelihood of a hemorrhaging arms race in space should the United States deploy weapons first—at least for the next few years—is remote. This reasoning does not dispute the fact that US deployment of weapons in outer space would represent the addition of a potent new military capacity, one that would assist in extending the current period of American hegemony well into the future. Clearly this would be intimidating, and America must expect severe condemnation and increased competition in peripheral areas. But such an outcome is less threatening than another, particularly non-liberal authoritarian state doing so, as the necessity of a response in kind is compelling. Placement of weapons in space by the United States would be perceived correctly as an attempt at continuing American hegemony. Although there is obvious opposition to the current international balance of power, the majority of states seem to regard it as at least tolerable. A continuation of the status quo is thus minimally acceptable, even to states working toward its demise. As long as the United States does not employ its power arbitrarily, the situation would be bearable initially and grudgingly accepted over time. Mirror-imaging does not apply here. An attempt by China to dominate space would be part of an effort to break the land-sea-air dominance of the United States in preparation for a new international order. Such an action would challenge the status quo, rather than seek to perpetuate it. This would be disconcerting to nations that accept, no matter how grudgingly, the current international order—including the venerable institutions of trade, finance, and law that operate within it—and intolerable to the United States. As leader of the current system, the United States could do no less than engage in a perhaps ruinous space arms race, save graciously decide to step aside and accept a diminished world status. Seizing the initiative and securing low-Earth orbit now, while the United States is dominant in space infrastructure, would do much to stabilize the international system and prevent an arms race in space. The enhanced ability to deny any attempt by another nation to place military assets in space and to readily engage and destroy terrestrial anti-satellite capacity would make the possibility of large-scale space war or military space races less likely, not more. Why would a state expend the effort to compete in space with a superpower that has the extraordinary advantage of holding securely the highest ground at the top of the gravity well? So long as the controlling state demonstrates a capacity and a will to use force to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a future war in space is remote.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">BP solves ballistic missiles and is imperative to US heg via deterrence – even perception of space leadership key to US military and economic primacy</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">IFPA 9, (Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Missile Defense, the space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”) Amy </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A symptom of this problem is the fact that, in spite of a commitment to protecting the United States from ballistic missile attack, little has been done to revive the cutting-edge technologies developed in the 1980s and early 1990s – technologies that produced the most effective, least costly ways to defend the U.S. homeland, its deployed troops, and its international partners from the threat of ballistic missile attack. The most impressive of these initiatives was </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Brilliant Pebbles</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. By 1992, that initiative – entailing the deployment of a constellation of small, advanced kill-vehicles in space – had developed a cheap, effective means of destroying enemy ballistic missiles in all modes of flight. Yet in the early 1990s, along with a number of other promising programs, it fell victim to a systematic eradication of space-based technologies that marked the closing years of the twentieth century and still impedes the development of the most effective missile defense today. The current state of affairs surrounding missile defense carries profound implications for the safety and security of the United States, and its role on the world stage in the decades to come. Without the means to dissuade, deter, and defeat a growing number of strategic adversaries, the United States will be unable to maintain its status of global leadership. The creation of effective defenses against ballistic missile attack remains central to this task. Historically, it is evident that the major geopolitical options that become available have been exploited by one nation or another. Those nations that are most successful in recognizing and acting on such options have become dominant. Others that have failed or have consciously decided not to do so are relegated to inferior political status. A salient case in point is ocean navigation and exploration. The Chinese were the first to become preeminent in this retrospectively pivotal area during the early Ming dynasty. However, domestic politics – strongly resembling missile defense politics in the United States of the past several decades – allowed this great national lead to be dissipated, with historic consequences felt until the present day, a full half millennium later. The subsequent assumption by Portugal of this leading maritime role resulted in geopolitical preeminence that was eventually lost to other powers. In the twenty-first century, maintenance of its present lead in space may indeed be pivotal to the basic geopolitical, military, and economic status of the United States. Consolidation of the preeminent U.S. position in space akin to Britain’s dominance of the oceans in the nineteenth century is not an option, but rather a necessity, for if not the United States, some other nation, or nations, will aspire to this role, as several others already do. For the United States, space is a crucially important twenty-first century geopolitical setting that includes a global missile defense. As American policy makers look ahead, new momentum and direction are needed in the pursuit of a truly global missile defense capability that incorporates space-based interdiction capabilities and addresses the current and emerging threats of the twenty-first century security setting. This updated edition of the IWG Report first published in 2006 contains new information and takes account of accomplishments and challenges that have arisen in recent years. It also addresses such issues as costs and timelines, together with other topics directly related to missile defense such as the evolving threat environment. The updated report is intended as an educational tool for those who seek to understand more fully the national security implications of missile defense and the requirements for missile defense.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Heg key to global stability and accesses every major impact </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thayer, Professor of Strategic Studies, 6 - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power‑the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei­ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri­macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in­terests. But </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">retrenchment</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, in any of its guis­es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">would lead to far greater instability and war</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa­bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa­bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri­macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action­ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur­ing </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">American primacy takes as its starting point the protec­tion of </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> oil flow around the world</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, that the </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">global trade and monetary regimes</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re­trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">retrenchment will make the United States less secure</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">threats will exist no mat­ter what role America chooses to play</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in international politics. Washington can­not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Whether they are terror­ists, rogue states or rising powers,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> his­tory shows that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">threats must be confront­ed.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">abandoning </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">its </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">commitments</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> or making unconvinc­ing half‑pledges to defend its interests and allies, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> To make such a declarationimplies </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">weak­ness</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">emboldens aggression</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna­tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront­ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys­ical, on‑the‑ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com­mon"‑‑the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space‑allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca­pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today‑-</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">in a world where Ameri­can primacy is clearly</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and unambiguous­ly </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">on display</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">--is that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">countries want to align themselves with the United States</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, ­their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America‑-their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements‑and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun­try, or any country, had so many allies. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">U.S. primacy‑-and the bandwagon­ing effect‑has also given us extensive in­fluence </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">to cre­ate coalitions of like‑minded states</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro­liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American‑led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec­tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun­tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac­tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re­sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica­tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases‑‑Venezuela, Iran, Cuba‑it is an anti‑U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin­sically anti‑American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power‑‑Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol­ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con­sider</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> the current international order ‑ free trade, a robust monetary regime, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">increas­ing respect for </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">human rights</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, growing </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">de­mocratization‑‑is directly linked to U.S. power. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons:</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> Appalling things happen when international orders collapse</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The Dark Ages fol­lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With­out U.S. power, the liberal order</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> cre­ated by the United States </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">will end</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">primacy</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> within the international system </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">causes</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> many positive outcomes for Washing­ton and the world. The first has been </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">a more peaceful world</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. During the Cold War, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela­tionships aligned‑-between </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Greece </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Turkey, Israel</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Egypt, South Korea</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Japan, India</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> war's worst form: </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">great power wars.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Second, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">American power gives the U</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">S</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the ability to spread de­mocracy</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and other elements of its ideol­ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter­ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">they are more open</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, more transparent and more likely to want </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead­ership</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin­istration for attempting to spread democ­racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit­ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta­bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per­haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af­ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat­ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash­ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western‑style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku­wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob­al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character­ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo­bility of capital and labor markets. The </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">economic stability</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> prosperity</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that stems from this economic order is a glob­al public good from which all states ben­efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well‑being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin‑offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca­reer confident in the socialist ideology of post‑independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog­nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> market economic policies and globaliza­tion</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> are facilitated through Amer­ican primacy</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even if heg decline is inevitable – plan will smooth transition and prevent great power wars</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman 6</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dolman: Well, I think that some assumptions that you made are extremely problematic. You know, the Soviet Union launched twenty ASATs into space and those were the worst of debris smashing into other satellites. Did that cause a debris problem? No, because it is a planned orbital mechanics issue that the kinetic force of that engagement goes into the atmosphere and debris is burned up on reentry. There are thus ways to use weapons in space that don’t really cause a debris problem, and there are ways to use them that ac-tually clean up space in orbit. But also I agree with you. No hegemon, no empire, no state or business lasts forever. Does that mean that we should accelerate our own decline? No. It is important to do things to extend it. The United States inevitably will lose its power relative to the rest of the world, so it needs to set up the conditions that are seen as beneficial around the world in such a way that whoever replaces the United States is going to be in the same sort of liberal mode that the United States had been, the same type of benevolent hegemon or follow-on power. What it cannot do is set up a situation where the next power is likely to be antithetical to those ideas. What I am talking about is extending the period of American hegemony into the foreseeable future, not creating a permanent empire in that sense, but continuing to have a situation where there is a power to create and enforce some sort of order.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Intervention is inevitable- plan ensures it’s benign</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">There is little reason to believe the United States will forego the capacity to influence decisions and events beyond its borders, with military force if necessary. Whether that capacity comes from space as well as the other military domains is undetermined. But, the operational deployment of space weapons would increase that capacity by providing for nearly instantaneous force projection worldwide. This force would be precise, unstoppable, and deadly. At the same time, the United States would forgo some of its ability to intervene directly in other states because the necessary budget tradeoffs would diminish its capacity to do so. A space-heavy American military would structurally limit potential American imperial ambitions while simultaneously extending its global leadership role. The need to limit collateral damage, the requirement for precision to allay the low volume of fire, and the tremendous cost of space weapons will ensure they are used for high-value, time-sensitive targets. An opposing state’s calculation of survival no longer would depend on interpreting whether or not the United States desires to be a good neighbor; whether it will invade and occupy its territory. Without sovereignty at risk, fear of a space-dominant American military will subside. The United States will maintain its position of hegemony as well as its security, and the world will not be threatened by the specter of a future American empire. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space weapons key to overall US tech leadership – making heg sustainable</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective. This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. Of course space weapons are expensive—very expensive, though not necessarily more expensive than terrestrially based systems that may accomplish the same objectives, not to mention objectives that cannot be met otherwise—but so are all revolutionary technologies, particularly those that pioneer a new medium. Furthermore, the state that achieves cutting-edge military technology first has historically been the recipient of tremendous battlefield advantage, and so pursuit of cut-ting-edge technology continues— despite the enormous cost. Moreover, the cultural and economic infrastructure that allows for and promotes innovation in the highest technologies tends to remain at the forefront of international influence. All empires decline and eventually are subsumed, but it has not been their search for the newest technologies or desire to stay at the forefront of innovation that causes their declines. Rather, it has been the policies of those states, generally an overexpansion of imperial control or an economic decision to freeze technologies, that result in their stagnation and demise. Space and space technology represent both the resources and the innovation that can keep a liberal and responsible American hegemony in place for decades, if not centuries, to come; furthermore, unless America maintains this technological edge, it will likely lose its preeminence.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Advantage Two – Conflict Escalation</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A. Cyberterrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fritz 9 – Jason Fritz (Director of New Media Learning & Development and editor of the Office of Information Technology) May 2009 “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control” http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons. Specifically, this research will use open source knowledge to identify the structure of nuclear command and control centres, how those structures might be compromised through computer network operations, and how doing so would fit within established cyber terrorists’ capabilities, strategies, and tactics. If access to command and control centres is obtained, terrorists could fake or actually cause one nuclear-armed state to attack another, thus provoking a nuclear response from another nuclear power. This may be an easier alternative for terrorist groups than building or acquiring a nuclear weapon or dirty bomb themselves. This would also act as a force equaliser, and provide terrorists with the asymmetric benefits of high speed, removal of geographical distance, and a relatively low cost. Continuing difficulties in developing computer tracking technologies which could trace the identity of intruders, and difficulties in establishing an internationally agreed upon legal framework to guide responses to computer network operations, point towards an inherent weakness in using computer networks to manage nuclear weaponry. This is particularly relevant to reducing the hair trigger posture of existing nuclear arsenals. All computers which are connected to the internet are susceptible to infiltration and remote control. Computers which operate on a closed network may also be compromised by various hacker methods, such as privilege escalation, roaming notebooks, wireless access points, embedded exploits in software and hardware, and maintenance entry points. For example, e-mail spoofing targeted at individuals who have access to a closed network, could lead to the installation of a virus on an open network. This virus could then be carelessly transported on removable data storage between the open and closed network. Information found on the internet may also reveal how to access these closed networks directly. Efforts by militaries to place increasing reliance on computer networks, including experimental technology such as autonomous systems, and their desire to have multiple launch options, such as nuclear triad capability, enables multiple entry points for terrorists. For example, if a terrestrial command centre is impenetrable, perhaps isolating one nuclear armed submarine would prove an easier task. There is evidence to suggest multiple attempts have been made by hackers to compromise the extremely low radio frequency once used by the US Navy to send nuclear launch approval to submerged submarines. Additionally, the alleged Soviet system known as Perimetr was designed to automatically launch nuclear weapons if it was unable to establish communications with Soviet leadership. This was intended as a retaliatory response in the event that nuclear weapons had decapitated Soviet leadership; however it did not account for the possibility of cyber terrorists blocking communications through computer network operations in an attempt to engage the system. Should a warhead be launched, damage could be further enhanced through additional computer network operations. By using proxies, multi-layered attacks could be engineered. Terrorists could remotely commandeer computers in China and use them to launch a US nuclear attack against Russia. Thus Russia would believe it was under attack from the US and the US would believe China was responsible. Further, emergency response communications could be disrupted, transportation could be shut down, and disinformation, such as misdirection, could be planted, thereby hindering the disaster relief effort and maximizing destruction. Disruptions in communication and the use of disinformation could also be used to provoke uninformed responses. For example, a nuclear strike between India and Pakistan could be coordinated with Distributed Denial of Service attacks against key networks, so they would have further difficulty in identifying what happened and be forced to respond quickly. Terrorists could also knock out communications between these states so they cannot discuss the situation. Alternatively, amidst the confusion of a traditional large-scale terrorist attack, claims of responsibility and declarations of war could be falsified in an attempt to instigate a hasty military response. These false claims could be posted directly on Presidential, military, and government websites. E-mails could also be sent to the media and foreign governments using the IP addresses and e-mail accounts of government officials. A sophisticated and all encompassing combination of traditional terrorism and cyber terrorism could be enough to launch nuclear weapons on its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">B. Launch on warning</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ford 10 – Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. A former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, he is a reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, an ordained chaplain in the Zen Peacemaker Order of Soto Zen Buddhism, and a contributing editor for The New Atlantis magazine. He runs the New Paradigms Forum website, November 10, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse:</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders”, Hudson Institute, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]], BBQ</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In effect, therefore, Blair and Sagan make much the same complaint about ready-launch force postures. Even two decades after the end of the Cold War, both the U.S. and Russian nuclear systems, they argue, remain structured in such a way as to create potentially catastrophic instability in the face of “inadvertence” challenges.44 Because of the coincidence of nuclear force and C3I vulnerability with the technical availability of launch-on-warning as an operational “answer” to this vulnerability, both powers have chosen to preserve a LOW option for their leaders – who would face formidable incentives actually to exercise this option in the face of an attack warning. This is felt to be not merely unstable in the classical deterrence-theory sense of creating incentives to use nuclear weapons in a crisis, but also dangerously susceptible to the kind of uncaught false alarms or other accidental launch problems that are said to be, over time, well-nigh inevitable in such interactively complex and tightly-coupled systems. This argument, then, is the intellectual core of the case for “de-alerting,” insofar as it is posited that such inadvertence-instability can be greatly reduced by removing the option of launching upon warning by setting things up so that it is basically impossible – for physical, technical, or organizational reasons – for either side to launch its nuclear forces on short notice.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Accidental launch ensures retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mintz 01 – Morton Mintz, Feburary 26, 2001, Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter, Two Minutes to Launch, The American Prospect. [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]], BBQ</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The bitter disputes over national missile defense (NMD) have obscured a related but dramatically more urgent issue of national security: the 4,800 nuclear warheads--weapons with a combined destructive power nearly 100,000 times greater than the atomic bomb that leveled Hiroshima--currently on “hair-trigger” alert. Hair-trigger alert means this: The missiles carrying those warheads are armed and fueled at all times. Two thousand or so of these warheads are on the intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) targeted by Russia at the United States; 1,800 are on the ICBMs targeted by the United States at Russia; and approximately 1,000 are on the submarine-based missiles targeted by the two nations at each other. These missiles would launch on receipt of three computer-delivered messages. Launch crews--on duty every second of every day--are under orders to send the messages on receipt of a single computer-delivered command. In no more than two minutes, if all went according to plan, Russia or the United States could launch missiles at predetermined targets: Washington or New York; Moscow or St. Petersburg. The early-warning systems on which the launch crews rely would detect the other side’s missiles within tens of seconds, causing the intended--or accidental--enemy to mount retaliatory strikes. “Within a half-hour, there could be a nuclear war that would extinguish all of us,” explains Bruce Blair. “It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SBMD deters missile use, solves all missile launch, and prevents conflict escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9 (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” [[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The ResponseGiven this multiplicity of ballistic missile threats, the Unit­ed States must deploy a missile defense that deters hostile states from developing or acquiring missile capabilities that could threaten the United States, its allies and coalition part­ners, and its forces deployed abroad. Furthermore, America’s missile defense R&D programs, together with planned de­ployments, must be sufficiently robust to dissuade would-be missile possessors from attempting to challenge the United States. Washington must deter future enemies from acquir­ing ballistic missiles, just as in the past it dissuaded them from developing strategic bombers because of America’s abil­ity to overwhelm such systems. Finally, U.S. missile defense must be capable of defeating those ballistic missiles, what­ever their range and type, that could be launched against the United States. U.S. and allied ballistic missile defense capabilities are an essential element of a broader damage limitation strat­egy. The purpose of this strategy is to protect and defend the people, territory, infrastructure, and institutions of the United States and its allies to the greatest extent possible. This strategy is a marked departure from the retaliation-based deterrence strategy of the Cold War. It is a strategy specifically tailored to meeting the security demands result­ing from the emerging multi-polar world, which has been brought about, at least in part, by the proliferation of bal­listic missiles and nuclear weapons. A mix of offensive and defensive strategic forces, which are modernized to meet the new and challenging requirements of this strategy, will be necessary. Thus, a global and layered ballistic missile de­fense system must be intricately linked to other strategic forces, where the broader strategic posture of the U.S. and its allies results in security benefits that are greater than the sum of its parts. As the United States dissuades future potential possess­ors, it must recognize that threats are increasing at a pace that no longer allows the luxury of long lead times within which a missile defense could be developed and deployed. Therefore, the United States must develop and rapidly field a missile defense with global reach, capable of coping with threats against the United States and its forces and allies //from any direction//. At the same time, America must attempt to dissuade hostile actors from acquiring missiles by render­ing such investments a poor use of limited resources. Ad­ditionally, given the uncertainty in predicting where, when, and by whom missiles might be launched – and what their targets may be – constant defenses are called for that are capable of intercepting missiles irrespective of their geo­graphic origin. Other things being equal, it is preferable to intercept threatening ballistic missiles as far away from their intend­ed targets and as early in their flight trajectory as possible. Best of all would be to have the capability to destroy an at­tacking missile shortly after it is launched, while its rockets still burn and any perturbation will lead to its destruction – with, in many cases, the debris falling back onto the area from which the attack was launched in the first place. The ca­pability to interdict a missile and its warheads in any phases of their flight (boost, midcourse, and terminal) requires an ability to detect and intercept the attack within a very few minutes and to track and destroy the attacking missile and its warheads during their longer midcourse traverse through space before they reenter the atmosphere. Finally, the last-ditch defense would be to destroy the attacking missiles as they reenter and pass through the atmosphere – and as ac­companying debris and decoys burn up on reentry – in the terminal phase en route to their targets. The best defense ca­ pability would be layered so that it could provide opportuni­ties for destruction in all three phases of flight. Only space-based defenses inherently have this global capability and permanence. While sea-based defenses can move freely through the two-thirds of the earth’s surface that are oceans, their capability is limited by geography and by the specific operations of the fleet – including where the sea-based missile defense happens to be deployed at any given time, and how quickly it could be redeployed to meet a crisis situation. Air-based and ground-based defenses, meanwhile, can have global capabilities, but frequently take considerable time to deploy when and where needed and are also depen­dent on the cooperation of U.S. friends and allies in permit­ting the necessary supporting activities on their territories. Thus, only a space-based missile defense will possess both constancy and global availability, irrespective of allied sup­port and agreement. As such, space-based missile defense constitutes the only truly global system, with all the rest be­ing either regional or local.91 In the case of sea-based systems, namely the //Aegis// pro­gram discussed in section 2, we have a regional system ca­pable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal intercept de­pending on where and how it is positioned, or vectored. It has a near-global application for //regional// operations, be­cause it is sea-based and theoretically it can be deployed over any portion of the earth’s surface covered by oceans. A land-based system can theoretically be deployed anywhere over about one-third of the world’s surface and, depending on how it is vectored, under some limited conditions would also be capable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal in­terception. Yet space-based missile defense alone is truly global in reach because of the medium in which it oper­ates, unconstrained by overflight or territorial restrictions. It also offers inherent interdiction advantages, described in greater detail below. </span>

=Negative= 
==Procedurals== 
===Human Commercial=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A) Interpretation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space development is limited to staffed commercial projects; everything else is space technology which is distinct</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the co-author of “The Space Elevator” with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired and is a former Army officer and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. His most recent papers are on Solar Power Satellites, Economics of the Space Elevator, Energy and time lag in the 21st century , and Eric’s axioms (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, we have space technology, not development. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space . He defines space development as the rapid expansion of manned commercial projects in space.</span>

==Counterplans== 
===Privatization CP=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should issue a Centennial Challenge to should deploy an integrated Space Situational Awareness sensor network utilizing evolutionary acquisition practices..</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Centennial Challenges can be used in any tech area- innovation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Petro 10 –(ANDREW PETROis the program executive for the InnovationIncubator in the Innovative Partnership Program Office at NASA Headquarters, "Open-Door Innovation", Spring 2010, Ask Magazine, www.nasa.gov/pdf/443541main_ASK_38_Spring_2010.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">We are currently in the process of choosing some new challenges. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">We have solicited ideas from scientists and engineers within NASA and from the public</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Almost two hundred ideas were submitted, and some of them will be reflected in the new prize challenges. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">In addition to benefiting NASA missions, we are also interested in prize challenges that address national and global needs such as energy, climate change, health, and education.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Innovation from Anywhere </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The winners of the challenges show that innovation comes from diverse and sometimes unexpected sources</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The first Astronaut Glove Challenge was won by Peter Homer, who developed his design working alone at his dining room table in Maine. Homer conducted dozens of failed experiments that helped him arrive at the winning design. After winning the prize he formed his own company to manufacture pressure-suit gloves and related products. Another competitor in that challenge, Ted Southern, is a costume designer from New York who partnered with a former rival and won the second-place prize in the latest astronaut glove competition. In the first two years of the Regolith Excavation Challenge, no team came close to meeting the requirements: to create a self-propelled robot that could dig up and dump at least 150 kilograms of lunar soil into a container in thirty minutes. Then, in 2009, three of the twenty-three participating teams far surpassed the requirements. The winner of the $500,000 prize was a team from Worcester Polytechnic Institute led by undergraduate Paul Ventimiglia. Their excavator moved 440 kilograms, almost three times the amount required. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Many prize competitors are existing small businesses; these small companies find that the prize competitions allow them to focus their efforts and provide them with visibility and credibility not easily attained in fields that are often dominated by large corporations</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">That was the outcome for Armadillo Aerospace, based in northern Texas, and Masten Space Systems of Mojave, California, the two Lunar Lander Challenge winners. Both companies have been recognized nationally as entrepreneurs and are pursuing new opportunities with potential commercial and government customers</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SDA has the ability to integrate data from commercial satellites- effectiveness is only possible without government involvement- large demand for SSA exists </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 11- Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Forty-eighth session Vienna, 7-18 February 2011 Item 7 of the draft provisional agenda*Towards Long-term Sustainability of Space Activities: Overcoming the Challenges of Space Debris A Report of the International Interdisciplinary Congress on Space Debris http://www.oosa.unvienna.org/pdf/limited/AC105_C1_2011_CRP14E.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The Space Data Association (SDA) is a non-profit association</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> founded by satellite operators Inmarsat, Intelsat, and SES. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">SDA’s mandate is to exchange operational data to help ensure safety, provide technical support to improve operational integrity, and share the associated costs</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.43 The “Space Data Center” provides and shares information among fellow operators regarding satellites under their control. As of January, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the Space Data Center has twenty participating operators and provides safety services for almost 1200 satellites in GEO and 114 satellites in LEO.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">44 The Data Center is </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">an interactive repository for commercial satellite orbit, manoeuvre, and frequency information</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Satellite operators </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">routinely deposit their fleet information into the Data Center and retrieve information from other member operators when necessary</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The Data Center allows operators to </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">augment the existing Two Line Element (TLE) data with precision orbit data and manoeuvre plans from the operator’s fleets</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">One major shortcoming</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of the Data Center </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">is that its operators must still rely on governments</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">primarily the U.S. Government</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, to </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">monitor dead satellites and other objects drifting in GEO that could collide with active satelli</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tes. In addition, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">separate tools are necessary to exchange data with each operator</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Some operators write their own software tools for monitoring and predicting the close approach of other spacecraft while others contract with third parties for this service. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The magnitude of the effort to maintain “space situational awareness” grows quickly as the number of coordinating operators increase</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. To mitigate this, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the SDA has developed tools to automatically translate data between the different formats used by the operators</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Unfortunately some operators are not able or willing to participate in close approach monitoring due to lack of resources or capabilities. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The SDA Space Data Center is currently being expanded to:• Develop data sharing relationships with governments and other data providersto get access to tracking data on space debris;• Provide collision avoidance manoeuvre planning assistance to operators; and• More satellite operators.</span>

===Code of Conduct CP=== 

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including all ASATs and SBMD systems. The United States federal government should create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct. The United States should stop the production of X-37B and remove it from space.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Code of conduct solves conflict --- creates cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Krepon 8 (Michael Krepon is the co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, writer/editor of 13 books and over 350 articles, MA from Johns Hopkins in International Studies, BA from Franklin and Marshall College, “SPACE AS A STRATEGIC ASSET TWILIGHT WAR: THE FOLLY OF U.S. SPACE DOMINANCE, AND THE POLITICS OF SPACE SECURITY: STRATEGIC RESTRAINT AND THE PURSUIT OF NATIONAL INTERESTS,” The Non-Proliferation Review, November 1, 2008, Vol. 15 No. 3, 549-554, accessed June 20, 2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Johnson-Freese makes the case for a comprehensive U.S. space strategy that fosters cooperation with major space powers; this in turn requires moving away from a U.S. military doctrine of space control and reinforcing the peaceful uses of outer space. She acknowledges the possibility that the United States might need space weapons one day but concludes that the case for such weapons is not now compelling. This argument assumes, as Johnson-Freese believes, that China is willing to accept her vision of a cooperative future in space. The one scenario that stands most prominently in the way of this vision is a potential confrontation between Washington and Beijing over Taiwan. Johnson-Freese argues persuasively that national security is not the only driver for China’s space policy; other drivers are economic development and national pride. The United States and Soviet Union managed to carve out a zone of cooperation in space, but this was possible only during upswings in bilateral relations. U.S. space cooperation with China may well be possible under similar circumstances. Johnson-Freese advocates legally binding agreements to manage the security dilemma in space. In the interim, Johnson-Freese does not envision an arms race in space between the United States and China, since Beijing will pursue asymmetric responses to U.S. military plans. Consequently, if the Bush administration’s policies continue unabated, the United States will be ‘‘racing against itself.’’ But Beijing will be ‘‘hedging its bets’’ against the development of space weapons by the Pentagon. Johnson-Freese did not predict ASAT testing as part of this hedging strategy; neither did she rule this out. She resorts to occasional overstatement, as when referring to space weapons as ‘‘bright, shiny objects that the Bush administration seems fixated upon.’’ But overall, her book makes an informed and well-defended case that the Bush administration’s space policies could benefit from course corrections. Mike Moore’s book, Twilight War: The Folly of U.S. Space Dominance, is also written with lay readers in mind. Moore, a former editor of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, writes with clarity and passion against the policy preferences of U.S. ‘‘space warriors.’’ Moore is interested primarily in the military uses of space, a narrower focus than Space as a Strategic Asset, but one that leaves room for many digressions about the history of airpower and U.S. exceptionalism, which he believes is one of the root causes of unwise U.S. military space policy. Some readers may take issue with the extent of these digressions; this reviewer learned from them. Moore doesn’t mince words. His central thesis is that the Bush administration’s space policy is not only ‘‘headed in the wrong direction,’’ but that the pursuit of space dominance is ‘‘a lulu of a mistake,’’ and that the initiation of military strikes in space by the United States ‘‘will guarantee conflict and, possibly, a new cold war.’’ He argues for ‘‘a new and unrelentingly tough space treaty’’ to ensure that no nation could dominate space. Moore contends that such a treaty, ‘‘if it is hardheaded enough’’ and if it is negotiated by ‘‘the most skeptical realists,’’ can be fully verifiable. It must also, in his view, contain ‘‘tough and certain’’ sanctions against violators. To enforce the treaty, he argues that signatories must be ‘‘unfailingly willing’’ to destroy the spaceports of states that violate treaty provisions.</span>

===Russia CP=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Text: the government of the Russian Federation should ___</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Russia’s space program is excellent—it’s comparable to the US</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">HARVEY 2007 (Brian, author of several books about space, The rebirth of the Russian space program: 50 years after Sputnik, new frontiers, p. 316)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Despite all that, the Russian space program clawed its way back. In 2000 Russia regained its place as the top space-faring nation in numbers of rockets launched each year. When the American space shuttle Columbia burned up in 2003, it was Russia that kept the International Space Station going, smoothly and without fuss. Against the odds, Russia managed to: • keep the Mir space station in operation until its safe de-orbiting in 2001; • build the core modules of the International Space Station, Zarya and Zvezda, as well as supply a docking module, Pirs; • send a regular supply of Soyuz and Progress missions up to the ISS, including new versions of both: the Soyuz TMA and Progress Ml models; • maintain a military space program; • sustain a space applications program. The Russian space program demonstrated a high level of adaptability to the new, difficult and uncertain economic conditions. This was most clearly demonstrated by: • the establishment of a national space agency, the RKA, now Roscosmos; • the turning around of the program from the most self-sufficient national program to the most globally competitive in the world; • the attraction of significant foreign investment to sustain the manned and unmanned program; • 87 space-based companies which entered joint ventures with American and European companies to sustain and develop their projects; • the opening of new cosmodromes (Svobodny and Dombarovska), the development of new launching systems (Barents Sea) and a launch base in French Guyana; • the adaptation of missiles to serve as launchers: Rockot, Start, Dnepr and Shtil; • the introduction of new upper stages: Ikar, Fregat, Briz KM and Briz M. The Russian space program began to show the promise of new life: • fresh groups of cosmonauts were recruited; • the production line of the Soyuz and Proton rockets was increased; • the Soyuz 2 series was introduced; • progress was made in the preparation of a new family of rockets, the Angara. It is possible that 1997 marked the low point of the extreme financial and organizational pressure inflicted on the Russian space program. Ten years later, Russia was in a better position to develop future projects. In 2005 the government approved a new federal space plan. Here we review its key elements, for they mark out the intended future path of Russian space exploration.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Russia able to develop SSP now </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Taverna, 10- aviation week congressional editor (1/24/10, Michael, “power system: laser base safer than microwave”, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst&id=news/awst/2010/01/25/AW_01_25_2010_p31-198723.xml]], EL) </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Researchers in the U.S., Russia and Japan also are pursuing space-based ­solar power projects, but most employ microwave technology (AW&amp;amp;amp;ST Apr. 20, 2009, p. 39). Astrium engineers think an operational network using 20-50-kw. ­lasers could be ready as soon as 2020. Laine says internally funded demonstrations using 5-watt lasers a few hundred meters apart have shown the feasibility of the concept. The company is now seeking to scale up ground testing with higher-power laser assemblies. In parallel, it is trying to interest public agencies and corporations in doing an in-orbit demonstration, perhaps on the International Space Station. Company engineers estimate they could have a 10-20-kw. demonstrator in orbit within five years. Astrium can draw on much of the necessary know-how for a space-based solar power system in-house, says Laine. Internal resources include its new 12</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">‑</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">18</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Gothic'; font-size: 8pt;">‑</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">kw. Alphabus geostationary telecom satellite platform, being developed with Thales Alenia Space; mirrors derived from those on the Herschel space observatory; and lasers based on Astrium’s experience with high-speed data transmission. Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd., an Astrium affiliate, is studying solar cell designs. Other partners would supply ground receiving antennas and other equipment. The European Space Agency plans to make energy a high-priority activity, says Director General Jean-Jacques Dordain. However, ESA’s current goals appear to be grid management and dissipation monitoring. Therefore, the European Union or big energy companies are considered more likely partners.</span>
==Disads== 
===Weaponization DA=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Huntley, 11 - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns. This background is essential for appreciating how the space policies of the Obama administration are beginning to genuinely break new trails. The U.S. National Space Policy issued in June 2010 has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateral tone, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.3 Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making. To some degree, a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, new budget realities and unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds. The 2011 National Security Space Strategy, released February 4, is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 • The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.” • The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, the strategy states the U.S. “will support development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and //norms of behavior for responsible space operations//.” [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures. This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements in the longer-term. • The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships,” and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right. • The strategy commits to reforming export controls. “In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it. • The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.” • The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities. Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria. The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps as striking as the prevalence of such passages, however, is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand the kind of independent space-based military capabilities that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative “as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. These policy movements toward multilateral engagement and commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance to curtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same. In sum, the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy toward greater global engagement but also, and more importantly, a step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 But if this reading is sound, the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that more specific guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Sabathier et. al 6— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation in that it tends to increase political sustainability. Within the United States, a program is made safer from cancellation to the extent that Congress and the administration are not willing to break international agreements. Indeed, the integration of Russia into the ISS program may well have saved the program from cancellation (consider that the year before Russia was introduced as a partner, the ISS was saved by one vote in Congress). Once cooperation has commenced, canceling a program becomes inconsistent with political sustainability as long as the utility cost associated with the loss of diplomatic benefits and the negative effects on reputation of terminating an international agreement is larger in magnitude than the utility cost that must be paid to maintain the system. In the case of the ISS, international cooperation does provide a rationale for sustaining the pro-gram, because canceling the program would result in a net loss in utility. The corollary to this is that there is a high cost to be paid by any nation that chooses to unilaterally withdraw from an existing cooperative endeavor. This cost comes in the form of damage to the departing nation’s reputation or credibility. In general, any unilateral action sends a signal that the actor is an unpredictable and therefore an unreliable and possibly disrespectful partner. This tends to sabotage the possibility of future cooperation. As such, there is a long-term benefit to maintaining cooperation, even when the immediate cost may seem to call for terminating it. If cooperation has never occurred (as is the case be-tween China and the United States), the advent of cooperation is a significant event, likely delivering a lot of diplomatic utility. On the other hand, if cooperation is the norm (as is the case between Canada and the United States), it is to be expected. The diplomatic utility of maintaining this cooperation is often not recognized. Nevertheless, the diplomatic utility cost of terminating this cooperation is large, because it would alienate a key ally. If it were necessary to cease cooperation, a mutual choice to do so would likely mitigate many of the negative reputation effects, because there would be no unilateral actor to whom one could assign blame. Indeed, if both parties choose to cease cooperat-ing simultaneously, this would mitigate the negative-reputation effect—rather, there would be a “mutual divorce.” Such a mutual decision would be significantly more tenable, in a diplomatic sense, because each party might outline a set of grievances and conditions for the termination of cooperation. Furthermore, since the agreement would be termi-nated in a spirit of mutual understanding, the possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China’s regional rivals, India, may feel compelled to seek ­offensive as well as defensive capabilities in space. The U.S. trade journal Defense News, for instance, quoted unidentified Indian defense officials as stating that their country had already begun developing its own kinetic-energy (nonexplosive, hit-to-kill) and laser-based antisatellite weapons. If India goes down that path, its archrival Pakistan will probably follow suit. Like India, Pakistan has a well-developed ballistic missile program, including medium-range missiles that could launch an antisatellite system. Even Japan, the third major Asian power, might join such a space race. In June 2007 the National Diet of Japan began considering a bill backed by the current Fukuda government that would permit the development of satellites for “military and national security” purposes. As for Russia, in the wake of the Chinese test President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow’s stance against the weaponization of space. At the same time, though, he refused to criticize Beijing’s actions and blamed the U.S. instead. The American efforts to build a missile defense system, Putin charged, and the increasingly aggressive American plans for a military position in space were prompting China’s moves. Yet Russia itself, as a major spacefaring power that has incorporated satellites into its national security structure, would be hard-pressed to forgo entering an arms race in space. Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities, proponents of a robust space warfare strategy believe that arming the heavens is inevitable and that it would be best for the U.S. to get there first with firepower. Antisatellite and space-based weapons, they argue, will be necessary not only to defend U.S. military and commercial satellites but also to deny any future adversary the use of space capabilities to enhance the performance of its forces on the battlefield. Yet any arms race in space would almost inevitably destabilize the balance of power and thereby multiply the risks of global conflict. In such headlong competition—whether in space or elsewhere—equilibrium among the adversaries would be virtually impossible to maintain. Even if the major powers did achieve stability, that reality would still provide no guarantee that both sides would perceive it to be so. The moment one side saw itself to be slipping behind the other, the first side would be strongly tempted to launch a preemptive strike, before things got even worse. Ironically, the same would hold for the side that perceived itself to have gained an advantage. Again, there would be strong temptation to strike first, before the adversary could catch up. Finally, a space weapons race would ratchet up the chances that a mere technological mistake could trigger a battle. After all, in the distant void, reliably distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be highly problematic. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hit-to-Kill InterceptorsAccording to assessments by U.S. military and intelligence officials as well as by independent experts, the Chinese probably destroyed their weather satellite with a kinetic-energy vehicle boosted by a two-stage medium-range ballistic missile. Technologically, launching such direct-ascent antisatellite weapons is one of the simplest ways to take out a satellite. About a dozen nations and consortia can reach low Earth orbit (between roughly 100 and 2,000 kilometers, or 60 to 1,250 miles, high) with a medium-range missile; eight of those countries can reach geostationary orbit (about 36,000 kilometers, or 22,000 miles, above Earth).But the real technical hurdle to making a hit-to-kill vehicle is not launch capacity; it is the precision maneuverability and guidance technology needed to steer the vehicle into its target. Just how well China has mastered those techniques is unclear. Because the weather satellite was still operating when it was destroyed, the Chinese operators would have known its exact location at all times.Ground-Based LasersThe test of China’s direct-ascent antisatellite device came on the heels of press reports in September 2006 that the Chinese had also managed to “paint,” or illuminate, U.S. spy satellites with a ground-based laser [see lower box on page 83]. Was Beijing actually trying to “blind” or otherwise damage the satellites? No one knows, and no consensus seems to have emerged in official Washington circles about the Chinese intent. Per­haps China was simply testing how well its network of low-power laser-ranging stations could track American orbital observation platforms.Even so, the test was provocative. Not all satellites have to be electronically “fried” to be put out of commission. A 1997 test of the army’s MIRACL system (for midinfrared advanced chemical laser) showed that satellites designed to collect optical images can be temporarily disrupted—dazzled—by low-power beams. It follows that among the satellites vulnerable to such an attack are the orbital spies.The U.S. and the former Soviet Union began experimenting with laser-based antisatellite weapons in the 1970s. Engineers in both countries have focused on the many problems of building high-power laser systems that could reliably destroy low-flying satellites from the ground. Such systems could be guided by “adaptive optics”: deformable mirrors that can continuously compensate for atmospheric distortions. But tremendous amounts of energy would be needed to feed high-power lasers, and even then the range and effectiveness of the beams would be severely limited by dispersion, by attenuation as they passed through smoke or clouds, and by the difficulty of keeping the beams on-target long enough to do damage.During the development of the SDI, the U.S. conducted several laser experiments from Hawaii, including a test in which a beam was bounced off a mirror mounted on a satellite. Laser experiments continue at the Starfire Optical Range at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico. Pentagon budget documents from fiscal years 2004 through 2007 listed antisatellite operations among the goals of the Starfire research, but that language was removed from budget documents in fiscal year 2008 after Congress made inquiries. The Starfire system incorporates adaptive optics that narrow the outgoing laser beam and thus increase the density of its power. That capability is not required for imagery or tracking, further suggesting that Starfire could be used as a weapon.Yet despite decades of work, battle-ready versions of directed-energy weapons still seem far away. An air force planning document, for instance, predicted in 2003 that a ground-based weapon able to “propagate laser beams through the atmosphere to [stun or kill low Earth orbit] satellites” could be available between 2015 and 2030. Given the current state of research, even those dates seem optimistic.Co-orbital SatellitesRecent advances in miniaturized sensors, powerful onboard computers and efficient rocket thrusters have made a third kind of antisatellite technology increasingly feasible: the offensive microsatellite. One example that demonstrates the potential is the air force’s experimental satellite series (XSS) project, which is developing microsatellites intended to conduct “autonomous proximity operations” around larger satellites. The first two microsatellites in the program, the XSS-10 and XSS-11, were launched in 2003 and 2005. Though ostensibly intended to inspect larger satellites, such microsatellites could also ram target satellites or carry explosives or directed-energy payloads such as radio-frequency jamming systems or high-powered microwave emitters. Air force budget documents show that the XSS effort is tied to a program called Advanced Weapons Technology, which is dedicated to research on military laser and microwave systems.During the cold war the Soviet Union developed, tested and even declared operational a co-orbital antisatellite system—a maneuverable interceptor with an explosive payload that was launched by missile into an orbit near a target satellite in low Earth orbit. In effect, the device was a smart “space mine,” but it was last demonstrated in 1982 and is probably no longer working. Today such an interceptor would likely be a microsatellite that could be parked in an orbit that would cross the orbits of several of its potential targets. It could then be activated on command during a close encounter.In 2005 the air force described a program that would provide “localized” space “situational awareness” and “anomaly characterization” for friendly host satellites in geostationary orbit. The program is dubbed ANGELS (for autonomous nanosatellite guardian for evaluating local space), and the budget line believed to represent it focuses on acquiring “high value space asset defensive capabilities,” including a “warning sensor for detection of a direct ascent or co-orbital vehicle.” It is clear that such guardian nanosatellites could also serve as offensive weapons if they were maneuvered close to enemy satellites.And the list goes on. A “parasitic satellite” would shadow or even attach itself to a target in geostationary orbit. Farsat, which was mentioned in an appendix to the [Donald] Rumsfeld Space Commission report in 2001, “would be placed in a ‘storage’ orbit (perhaps with many microsatellites housed inside) relatively far from its target but ready to be maneuvered in for a kill.”Finally, the air force proposed some time ago a space-based radio-frequency weapon system, which “would be a constellation of satellites containing high-power radio-frequency transmitters that possess the capability to disrupt/­destroy/disable a wide variety of electronics and national-level command and control systems.”Air force planning documents from 2003 envisioned that such a technology would emerge after 2015. But outside experts think that orbital radio-frequency and microwave weapons are technically feasible today and could be deployed in the relatively near future.Space BombersThough not by definition a space weapon, the Pentagon’s Common Aero Vehicle/Hypersonic Technology Vehicle (often called CAV) enters into this discussion because, like an ICBM, it would travel through space to strike Earth-bound targets. An unpowered but highly maneuverable hypersonic glide vehicle, the CAV would be deployed from a future hypersonic space plane, swoop down into the atmosphere from orbit and drop conventional bombs on ground targets. Congress recently began funding the project but, to avoid stoking a potential arms race in space, has prohibited any work to place weapons on the CAV. Although engineers are making steady progress on the key technologies for the CAV program, both the vehicle and its space plane mothership are still likely decades off.Some of the congressional sensitivity to the design of the CAV may have arisen from another, much more controversial space weapons concept with parallel goals: hypervelocity rod bundles that would be dropped to Earth from orbital platforms. For decades air force planners have been thinking about placing weapons in orbit that could strike terrestrial targets, particularly buried, “hardened” bunkers and caches of weapons of mass destruction. Commonly called “rods from God,” the bundles would be made up of large tungsten rods, each as long as six meters (20 feet) and 30 centimeters (12 inches) across. Each rod would be hurled downward from an orbiting spacecraft and guided to its target at tremendous speed.Both high costs and the laws of physics, however, challenge their feasibility. Ensuring that the projectiles do not burn up or deform from reentry friction while sustaining a precise, nearly vertical flight path would be extremely difficult. Calculations indicate that the nonexplosive rods would probably be no more effective than more conventional munitions. Furthermore, the expense of lofting the heavy projectiles into orbit would be exorbitant. Thus, despite continued interest in them, rods from God seem to fall into the realm of science fiction.Obstacles to Space WeaponsWhat, then, is holding the U.S. (and other nations) back from a full-bore pursuit of space weapons? The countervailing pressures are threefold: political opposition, technological challenges and high costs.The American body politic is deeply divided over the wisdom of making space warfare a part of the national military strategy. The risks are manifold. I remarked earlier on the general instabilities of an arms race, but there is a further issue of stability among the nuclear powers. Early-warning and spy satellites have traditionally played a crucial role in reducing fears of a surprise nuclear attack. But if antisatellite weapons disabled those eyes-in-the-sky, the resulting uncertainty and distrust could rapidly lead to catastrophe.One of the most serious technological challenges posed by space weapons is the proliferation of space debris, to which I alluded earlier. According to investigators at the air force, NASA and Celestrak (an independent space-monitoring Web site), the Chinese antisatellite test left more than 2,000 pieces of junk, baseball-size and larger, orbiting the globe in a cloud that lies between about 200 kilometers (125 miles) and 4,000 kilometers (2,500 miles) above Earth’s surface. Perhaps another 150,000 objects that are a centimeter (half an inch) across and larger were released. High orbital velocities make even tiny pieces of space junk dangerous to spacecraft of all kinds. And ground stations cannot reliably monitor or track objects smaller than about five centimeters (two inches) across in low Earth orbit (around a meter in geostationary orbit), a capability that might enable satellites to maneuver out of the way. To avoid being damaged by the Chinese space debris, in fact, two U.S. satellites had to alter course. Any shooting war in space would raise the specter of a polluted space environment no longer navigable by Earth-orbiting satellites.Basing weapons in orbit also pre­sents difficult technical obstacles. They would be just as vulnerable as satellites are to all kinds of outside agents: space debris, projectiles, electromagnetic signals, even natural micrometeoroids. Shielding space weapons against such threats would also be impractical, mostly because shielding is bulky and adds mass, thereby greatly increasing launch costs. Orbital weapons would be mostly autonomous mechanisms, which would make operational errors and failures likely. The paths of objects in orbit are relatively easy to predict, which would make hiding large weapons problematic. And because satellites in low Earth orbit are overhead for only a few minutes at a time, keeping one of them constantly in range would require many weapons.Finally, getting into space and operating there is extremely expensive: between $2,000 and $10,000 a pound to reach low Earth orbit and between $15,000 and $20,000 a pound for geostationary orbit. Each space-based weapon would require replacement every seven to 15 years, and in-orbit repairs would not be cheap, either.Alternatives to Space WarfareGiven the risks of space warfare to national and international security, as well as the technical and financial hurdles that must be overcome, it would seem only prudent for spacefaring nations to find ways to prevent an arms race in space. The U.S. focus has been to reduce the vulnerability of its satellite fleet and explore alternatives to its dependence on satellite services. Most other space-capable countries are instead seeking multilateral diplomatic and legal measures. The options range from treaties that would ban antisatellite and space-based weapons to voluntary measures that would help build transparency and mutual confidence.The Bush administration has adamantly opposed any form of negotiations regarding space weapons. Opponents of multilateral space weapons agreements contend that others (particularly China) will sign up but build secret arsenals at the same time, because such treaty violations cannot be detected. They argue further that the U.S. cannot sit idly as potential adversaries gain spaceborne resources that could enhance their terrestrial combat capabilities.Proponents of international treaties counter that failure to negotiate such agreements entails real opportunity costs. An arms race in space may end up compromising the security of all nations, including that of the U.S., while it stretches the economic capacities of the competitors to the breaking point. And whereas many advocates of a space weapons ban concede that it will be difficult to construct a fully verifiable treaty—because space technology can be used for both military and civilian ends—effective treaties already exist that do not require strict verification. A good example is the Biological Weapons Convention. Certainly a prohibition on the testing and use (as opposed to the deployment) of the most dangerous class of near-term space weapons—destructive (as opposed to jamming) antisatellite systems—would be easily verifiable, because earthbound observers can readily detect orbital debris. Furthermore, any party to a treaty would know that all its space launches would be tracked from the ground, and any suspicious object in orbit would promptly be labeled as such. The international outcry that would ensue from such overt treaty violations could deter would-be violators.Since the mid-1990s, however, progress on establishing a new multilateral space regime has lagged. The U.S. has blocked efforts at the United Nations Conference on Disarmament in Geneva to begin negotiations on a treaty to ban space weapons. China, meanwhile, has refused to accept anything less. Hence, intermediate measures such as voluntary confidence-building, space traffic control or a code of responsible conduct for spacefaring nations have remained stalled.Space warfare is not inevitable. But the recent policy shift in the U.S. and China’s provocative actions have highlighted the fact that the world is approaching a crossroads. Countries must come to grips with their strong self-interest in preventing the testing and use of orbital weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

===SKFTA DA=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SKFTA will pass next week – Broad bipartisan agreement</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sonmez 9/16 (Felicia, Congressional Reporter for the Washington Post, “Five things to watch on the Hill next week” 9/16/11, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/five-things-to-watch-on-the-hill-next-week/2011/09/16/gIQAUsHxXK_blog.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The three long-stalled free-trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and Colombia finally look as though they will make their way through Congress next week. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said he expects Senate to begin work Monday on the deals as well as on a renewal of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which has been one of the major sticking points between the parties in considering the trade pacts. The trade deals are one of the few areas of broad bipartisan agreement on which Congress is poised to act this fall; passage of the deals would give both parties the chance to make the case that they are working on creating jobs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Plan Unpopular)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pol cap is key – Obama has to fight labor opposition and push through TAA</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reuters 9/2 (“Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall”, 9/2/11, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Still, Congress' approval of the South Korea, Colombia and Panama deals is not assured. Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO labor federation which opposes the deals, boasted on Wednesday that opponents may have the votes to stop the pacts, which they see as a threat to U.S. jobs. "I think we have a real shot at it," Trumka said. In addition to the challenge from organized labor, Obama must persuade Republicans focusing on spending cuts to renew a retraining program for displaced workers known as Trade Adjustment Assistance. This is critical to gaining enough Democratic votes in the Senate to approve the trade pacts. Republican opposition to TAA "makes our job, quite frankly, a little bit easier, because no one is going to support those trade agreements without TAA," said Trumka. Democrats like House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles Schumer also have signaled plans to push for a vote on legislation to pressure China to revalue its currency in conjunction with the free trade pacts. That would inflame relations with Beijing and possibly trigger tit-for-tat trade retaliation if Obama does not expend political capital to block it. The early start of the 2012 U.S. election campaigns, however, may dampen Obama's appetite to lead aggressively on trade. But "if the administration spends the effort and actually finishes the job (the trade deals) with Congress, that will send a very positive signal," said Jeffrey Schott, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SKFTA leads to global trade liberalization</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hill 7 (Chris, Assistant Secretary for East Asian/Pacific Affairs at the State Department, "The United States-South Korea FTA: The Foreign Policy Implications", 6/13/7, [[http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/hearing_notice.asp?id=839]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Fourth, and finally, the KORUS FTA will give impetus to global trade liberalization: By demonstrating that two large, advanced economies can conclude a high- quality agreement eliminating both tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, the KORUS FTA could help spur further trade liberalization both within the Asia- Pacific region and globally. It will send a signal to our other trading partners, encouraging them to open their economies and creating a competitive dynamic that would spur more rapid progress on the multilateral trade liberalization front.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Trade prevents nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Spicer 96 (The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The choice facing the West today is much the same as that which faced the Soviet bloc after World War II: between meeting head-on the challenge of world trade with the adjustments and the benefits that it will bring, or of attempting to shut out markets that are growing and where a dynamic new pace is being set for innovative production. The problem about the second approach is not simply that it won't hold: satellite technology alone will ensure that he consumers will begin to demand those goods that the East is able to provide most cheaply. More fundamentally, it will guarantee the emergence of a fragmented world in which natural fears will be fanned and inflamed. A world divided into rigid trade blocs will be a deeply troubled and unstable place in which suspicion and ultimately envy will possibly erupt into a major war. I do not say that the converse will necessarily be true, that in a free trading world there will be an absence of all strife. Such a proposition would manifestly be absurd. But to trade is to become interdependent, and that is a good step in the direction of world stability. With nuclear weapons at two a penny, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.</span>

===Nanotech DA=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Funding for nanotech now – plan will trade off</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NIA 11 (Nanotechnology Industries Association, Bergeson & Campbell P.C., February 19, 2011, “US NNI Reauthorization Is Needed”, [[http://www.nanotechia.org/global-news/nni-reauthorization-is-needed]], BBQ)</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">On December 28, 2010, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">the US Reauthorization Act of 2010</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (H.R. 5116), entitled 'America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES)' was presented to President Obama for signature. Importantly for nano stakeholders, the bill, which unanimously passed by the Senate on the 17th December 2010, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">does not include reauthorization of</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> the National Nanotechnology Initiative (</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">NNI</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">). The House passed similar legislation on May 28, 2010, and that legislation would have reauthorized the NNI. This last minute legislative change was not what nano stakeholders wanted or expected. It means, of course that the NNI, the program that just celebrated with much fanfare its 10-year anniversary, the program created to coordinate U.S. nanotechnology research and development (R&D), has eluded reauthorization for the third straight Congressional session. This brief article explores what the absence of reauthorization means exactly. Before answering this question, some background is necessary. Work at the federal level to coordinate nano initiatives began years earlier, but it was not until the Clinton Administration's 2001 budget submission to Congress that nanoscale science and technology was raised to the level of a federal initiative and officially referred to as the NNI. The NNI is managed within the framework of the Nanoscale Science Engineering and Technology (NSET) Subcommittee of the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC). The NSTC is composed of representatives from agencies participating in the NNI and is a Cabinet-level council though which the President coordinates science, space, and technology policies across the federal government. The 21st Century Research and Development Act (Public Law 108-153) was enacted in 2003. The Act established a more formal legal and organizational framework for the NNI, recognized its importance to an even greater extent, and defined the role of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office (NNCO) as the Secretariat of the NSET Subcommittee managing its day-to-day activities. The NNCO's Director, Dr. Clayton Teague, and its Deputy Director, Dr. Sally Tinkle, are two high-profile international nano celebrities whose contributions and leadership have been indispensible to the success of the NNI and the commercialization in the U.S. (and indirectly globally) of nanotechnology generally. When originally passed by Congress in 2007, the America COMPETES Act reauthorized the NNI and gave it some direction in terms of grant funding and goals. The House of Representatives has been trying to reauthorize this program since 2008 and has deliberated on the legislation over the last three sessions of Congress. In 2010, by a vote of 228-130, the House cleared legislation to reauthorize spending on a variety of science, education, and technology programs at federal agencies, including the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Standards and Technology and it included a provision to reauthorize the NNI. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">The Senate unanimously passed the measure</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, which would reauthorize the 2007 America COMPETES Act, on December 17, 2011. As noted, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">however, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">the version that passed the Senate and was enacted into law </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">contains no reference to nanotechnology. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Implications Given this background, and the fact that NNI reauthorization has been in play for years, the question presented is what does the absence of reauthorization mean? In the near term and operationally, the answer is probably not much. The NNI will continue to operate under its original legislation and its operation is not time-limited. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">The absence of reauthorization</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> over the longer term, however, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">may invite more ominous and potentially adverse implications</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">. In that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">the purpose of a reauthorization is to provide guidance and instruction to</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> the NNCO regarding </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">what Congress wishes,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">absence of such</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> guidance and direction </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">could be misinterpreted as a lack of Congressional interest and/or fiscal year support</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">. The fact that President </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">Obama's</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">FY) 2012 budget request</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> submitted on February 14, 2011, seeks an increase of $201 million in the NNI's budget to </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">$2.1 billion</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> suggests that the Administration appreciates the importance of the NNI and the value of its work </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">in</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> supporting </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">R&D efforts to commercialize nanotech</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">nology. It remains to be seen, however, what </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">the Congressional budget approval process does to this budget request and it is entirely possible this number could be flattened or even reduced. As the relentless pressure to reduce federal funding increases, the absence of reauthorization could cause the NNI to get lost in the shuffle,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> as it were, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; text-decoration: none;">and diminish the stature and critical role of the NNI</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> as a "central locus of communication, cooperation, and collaboration for all Federal agencies" for all things nano.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Zero sum trade off ensures link</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Williams 11 (Jesse, columnist, Yale News, 1/20, [[http://www.yaledailynews.com/news/2011/jan/20/war-of-the-wars/]], accessed 7-1-11, CH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The budget-tightening weeks are a tough time in Washington</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. After all, our </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">revenues are finite, so budgeting is a zero-sum game: every dollar we spend on</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> education is a dollar we can’t spend on the </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">military</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">; every dime we put into Social Security </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">is one</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> dime</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> that can’t go to NASA</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and so on. So when it comes time to cut, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">every portion of spending can, in a very real sense, be evaluated against any other portion.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Yet, we rarely do that kind of broad evaluating — we stay busy trying to decide whether we’re giving the Marine Corps a new tank instead of a new jet. That’s not a conversation about national priorities, and not the kind of conversation we can and should be having. Why not weigh that tank against, say, $12 billion in federal subsidies for education?</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nanotech can eliminate poverty</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Treder 06 [Mike, Director of the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology http://crnano.typepad.com/crnblog/2006/03/water.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">One-fifth of the world's population lacks safe drinking water</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, the United Nations said in a report last week that laid much of the blame on mismanagement of resources. "</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Farmers are central to the whole picture,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">" Patrick McCully, director of International River Network, a non-governmental organization, said at the [World Water Forum]. "</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">They use the majority of the world's water, and farmers are where most of the world's poverty is concentrated." Advanced nanotechnology can aid in making much more efficient use of water, especially in agriculture, and</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> especially </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">in developing countries. With 525 million small farms in the world -- and 2.5 billion people living off the land -- farmers suffer the most from the problems discussed at the forum: poverty, disease, and the lack of sanitation and clean water. Drought-parched fields, withered corn stalks and skinny cattle make up the face of the crisis in the developing world. It is not hyperbole to say that nanotechnology could bring an end to poverty, malnutrition, and starvation.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The technology will be available. Traditionally governments have responded to the problems of small farmers -- defined as those with plots of 5 acres or less -- with big dam projects. But most small farms are so high up in the hills or removed from rivers that they cannot benefit from them, said McCully. The answer is more efficient irrigation systems, said Ute Collier, of the World Wildlife Fund. "</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">We can't afford to waste water in irrigation systems that are 30 to 40 percent efficient</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">," he said. "</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">If we could get that part of the equation done, we could probably cut down the number of dams we're building by half,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> at least." </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Greater efficiency would free up money to helpprovide clean drinking water and food to small farmers who, despite raising food, constitute most of the 842 million people in the world who go hungry.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Molecular manufacturing will provide inexpensive, onsite, custom design and building of: Pumps, pipes, and irrigation systems, Filters and desalination equipment, Greenhouses and solar power collectors, Automation for planting, tilling, fertilizing, weeding, pest control, harvesting, sorting, and packaging, Storage and distribution solutions. Some will say that we already have sufficient technology to adequately feed all the world's people, and that the actual problems are political. That's mostly true, but it is also true that improved technology could make a big difference. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Supplying technological aid to a poor country today is often a major logistical challenge as well as being quite expensive. Developed nations are simply not willing to spend enough money to make the growing of food equally easy for everyone.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It won't sell politically at home -- never mind the problematic governments overseas. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Molecular manufacturing will overcome many of these barriers. Major shipments of expensive equipment no longer will be required. An aid worker with a tiny nanofactory in her pocket could simply walk into a village and then go to work.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Costs will be negligible, especially when compared to the enormously greater productivity that developed nations could achieve through advanced nanotech and other emerging technologies. Yes, the corrupt leadership in many poor nations still could make things difficult. But when the economic and security advantages of raising others out of poverty are considered (not to mention the moral imperatives), and when it costs nearly nothing to do so, it will make inaction a much harder sell.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Poverty is an ongoing thermonuclear war against the poor- OUTWEIGHS YOUR ONE SHOT SCENARIO</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilligan 96 (James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, "Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes", p. 191-196)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The deadliest form of violence is poverty.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> You cannot work for one day with the violent people who fill our prisons and mental hospitals for the criminally insane without being forcible and constantly reminded of the extreme poverty and discrimination that characterizes their lives. Hearing about their lives, and about their families and friends, you are forced to recognize the truth in Gandhi's observation that the deadliest form of violence is poverty. Not a day goes by without realizing that trying to understand them and their violent behavior in purely individual terms is impossible and wrong-headed. Any theory of violence, especially a psychological theory, that evolves from the experience of men in maximum security prisons and hospitals for the criminally insane must begin with the recognition that these institutions are only microcosms. They are not where the major violence in our society takes place, and the perpetrators who fill them are far from being the main causes of most violent deaths. Any approach to a theory of violence needs to begin with a look at the structural violence in this country. Focusing merely on those relatively few men who commit what we define as murder could distract us from examining and learning from those structural causes of violent death that are for more significant from a numerical or public health, or human, standpoint. By "structural violence" I mean the increased rates of death, and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively low death rates experienced by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of class structure; and that structure itself is a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting "structural" with "behavioral violence," by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on. Structural violence differs from behavior violence in at least three major respects. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The lethal effects of= structural violence operate continuously</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, rather than sporadically, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">whereas</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">murders, suicides, executions, wars, and other forms of </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">behavioral violence occur one at a time.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">*Structural violence operates more or less independently of individual acts; independent of individuals and groups (politicians, political parties, voters) whose decisions may nevertheless have lethal consequences for others. *Structural violence is normally invisible, because it may appear to have had other (natural or violent) causes. [CONTINUED] The finding that structural violence causes far more deaths than behavioral violence does is not limited to this country. Kohler and Alcock attempted to arrive at the number of excess deaths caused by socioeconomic inequities on a worldwide basis. Sweden was their model of the nation that had come closest to eliminating structural violence. It had the least inequity in income and living standards, and the lowest discrepancies in death rates and life expectancy; and the highest overall life expectancy of the world. When they compared the life expectancies of those living in the other socioeconomic systems against Sweden, they found that 18 million deaths a year could be attributed to the "structural violence" to which the citizens of all the other nations were being subjected. During the past decade, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the discrepancies between the rich and poor nations have increased dramatically and alarmingly. The 14 to 19 million deaths a year caused by structural violence compare with about 100,000 deaths per year from armed conflict. Comparing this frequency of deaths from structural violenceto the frequency of those caused by major military and political violence,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">such as World War II (an estimated 49 million military and civilian deaths, including those by genocide – or about eight million per year, 1939-1945), the Indonesian massacre of 1965-66 (perhaps 575,000 deaths), the Vietnam war (possibly two million, 1954-1973), and </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">even a hypothetical nuclear exchange</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. (232 million), </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">it is clear that even war cannot begin to compare with structural violence, which continues year after year.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> In other words, every fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, and accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide, perpetrated on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Structural violence is also the main cause of behavioral violence</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> on a socially and epidemiologically significant scale (from homicide and suicide to war and genocide). The question as to which of the two forms of violence – structural or behavioral – is more important, dangerous, or lethal is moot, for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect. </span>

===Dip Cap DA=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Obama expending diplomatic capital protecting Israel now- Key to the peace process</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">McGreal 9/16 – Chris, The Guardian, Barack Obama caught between Israel and his Palestinian 'promise', [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/blog/2011/sep/16/barack-obama-usforeignpolicy]], BBQ</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet the president is expending considerable diplomatic capital and risking what remains of the US's tattered reputation in the Arab world to protect Israel from a Palestinian move to have the United Nations recognise what amounts to a unilateral declaration of independence. At a time when the US is working to build ties with the new leaderships emerging from the Arab spring, it might be thought that Washington would hedge its bets over Palestinian statehood. But Obama is is taking an unequivocal stand in favour of Israel in saying America will veto the Palestinian bid at the UN despite alarm in the Arab world. The former head of Saudi Arabian intelligence and ex-ambassador to Washington, Turki al-Faisal, this week warned that an American veto will make the US "toxic" in the region. Whatever the foreign policy implications, Israel is primarily a domestic political consideration and Obama's position on Palestinian statehood is staked out with one eye firmly on the consequences at the ballot box and in dealings with Congress. "The answer to American policy lies exclusively in the realm of American domestic politics," said Daniel Levy, a former adviser to Israeli cabinet ministers and now a US based analyst.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Foreign policy focus is zero sum – plan trade off</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anderson and Grewell 01 (Terry and Bishop, The Greening of Foreign Policy, http://www.perc.org/pdf/ps20.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Greater international environmental regulation can increase international tension. Foreign policy is a bag of goods that includes issues from free trade to arms trading to human rights. Each new issue in the bag weighs it down, lessening the focus on other issues and even creating conflicts between issues. Increased environmental regulations could cause countries to lessen their focus on international threats of violence such as the sale of ballistic missiles or border conflicts between nations. As countries must watch over more and more issues arising in the international policy arena, they will stretch the resources necessary to deal with traditional international issues. As Schaefer (2000, 46) writes, “Because diplomatic currency is finite . . . it is critically important that the United States focus its diplomatic efforts on issues of paramount importance to the nation. Traditionally, these priorities have been opposing hostile domination of key geographic regions, supporting our allies, securing vital resources, and ensuring access to foreign economies.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Palestinian statehood causes middle-east war- draws in major powers</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NYT 9/11</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(New York Times, “Palestinian Statehood,” 9/11/11, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/12/opinion/palestinian-statehood.html?_r=1]], CJC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A United Nations vote on Palestinian membership would be ruinous. Yet with little time left before the U.N. General Assembly meets, the United States, Israel and Europe have shown insufficient urgency or boldness in trying to find a compromise solution. The need for action is even more acute after alarming tensions flared in recent days between Israel and two critical regional players — Egypt and Turkey. Last week, the United States made a listless effort to get Palestinians to forgo the vote in favor of new peace talks. The pitch was unpersuasive. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, said the Americans made no concrete proposal. “To be frank with you, they came too late,” he said. His frustration is understandable. Since President Obama took office, the only direct negotiations between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Mr. Abbas lasted a mere two weeks in September 2010. Both sides share the blame with Mr. Obama and Arab leaders (we put the greater onus on Mr. Netanyahu, who has used any excuse to thwart peace efforts). But the best path to statehood remains negotiations. The United States and its Quartet partners (the European Union, the United Nations and Russia) should put a map and a deal on the table, with a timeline for concluding negotiations and a formal U.N. statehood vote. The core element: a Palestinian state based on pre-1967 borders with mutually agreed land swaps and guarantees for Israel’s security. The Security Council and the Arab League need to throw their full weight behind any plan. To get full U.N. membership the Palestinians have to win Security Council approval. The administration has said it will veto any resolution — ensuring the further isolation of Israel and Washington. If they fail in the Security Council, the Palestinians have said they will ask the General Assembly for enhanced observer status as a nonmember state. Even the more modest General Assembly vote, which the Palestinians are sure to win, would pave the way for them to join dozens of U.N. bodies and conventions, and could strengthen their ability to pursue cases against Israel at the International Criminal Court. But Israel would still control Palestinian territory, leaving the Palestinians disaffected after the initial euphoria. Congress has threatened to cut millions of dollars in aid to the Palestinian Authority if it presses for a U.N. vote. Instead of just threatening the Palestinians, Congress should lean on Mr. Netanyahu to return to talks. Israel has said it would cut millions of dollars in tax remittances to the authority. Such counterproductive moves could bring down the most moderate leadership the Palestinians have had, empower Hamas and shred vital security cooperation between Israel and the authority. It is astonishing that this late in the game, America and Europe remain divided over some aspects of a proposal for peace talks — like Israel’s demand for recognition as a Jewish state. Mr. Obama in particular needs to show firmer leadership in pressing Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas to resume talks. If a U.N. vote takes place, Washington and its partners will have to limit the damage, including continuing to finance the Palestinian Authority. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Middle-East war escalates rapidly- Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">London, professor emeritus of New York University, 6/23/10 [Herbert, “//The Coming Crisis in the Middle East”, http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7101&pubType=HI_Opeds]//</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The gathering storm in the Middle East is gaining momentum. War clouds are on the horizon and like conditions prior to World War I all it takes for explosive action to commence is a trigger. Turkey’s provocative flotilla - often described in Orwellian terms as a humanitarian mission - has set in motion a flurry of diplomatic activity, but if the Iranians send escort vessels for the next round of Turkish ships, it could present a casus belli. It is also instructive that Syria is playing a dangerous game with both missile deployment and rearming Hezbollah. According to most public accounts Hezbollah is sitting on 40,000 long, medium and short range missiles and Syrian territory has served as a conduit for military material from Iran since the end of the 2006 Lebanon War. Should Syria move its own scuds to Lebanon or deploy its troops as reinforcement for Hezbollah, a wider regional war with Israel could not be contained. In the backdrop is an Iran with sufficient fissionable material to produce a couple of nuclear weapons. It will take some time to weaponize missiles, but the road to that goal is synchronized in green lights since neither diplomacy nor diluted sanctions can convince Iran to change course. Iran is poised to be the hegemon in the Middle East. It is increasingly considered the “strong horse” as American forces incrementally retreat from the region. Even Iraq, ironically, may depend on Iranian ties in order to maintain internal stability. From Qatar to Afghanistan all political eyes are on Iran. For Sunni nations like Egypt and Saudi Arabia regional strategic vision is a combination of deal making to offset the Iranian Shia advantage and attempting to buy or develop nuclear weapons as a counter weight to Iranian ambition. However, both of these governments are in a precarious state. Should either fall, all bets are off in the Middle East neighborhood. It has long been said that the Sunni “tent” must stand on two legs, if one, falls, the tent collapses. Should that tent collapse and should Iran take advantage of that calamity, it could incite a Sunni-Shia war. Or feeling its oats and no longer dissuaded by an escalation scenario with nuclear weapons in tow, war against Israel is a distinct possibility. However, implausible it may seem at the moment, the possible annihilation of Israel and the prospect of a second holocaust could lead to a nuclear exchange.</span>

===Soft Power DA=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Weaponization wrecks soft power</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Coffelt, 5 – Lt. Colonal; thesis to the school of advanced air and space studies (Christopher A, “THE BEST DEFENSE: CHARTING THE FUTURE OFUS SPACE STRATEGY AND POLICY.” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies For Completion of the Graduation Requirements SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. June 2005.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Weaponizing space also decreases the United States’ ability to influence adversaries and achieve policy objectives short of military action (soft power). It undermines the legitimacy of the United States’ actions and its role as the leader of the free world. How can the United States assume the mantle of world leadership if it continues to act unilaterally at the expense of the international cooperation, peace, and interests it claims to value? Putting weapons in space is the ultimate unilateral act and affords no opportunity to form “coalitions of the willing.”289 The United States currently enjoys a significant superiority in air/land/sea combat power, robustly enhanced and enabled by space capabilities. In this position of advantage, it makes little strategic sense to disrupt the status quo with the deployment of destabilizing, offensive weapons in space. Putting weapons in space or pursuing an offensive space strategy upsets an advantageous status quo and overplays the United States’ hand, shortening the period of advantage. Moreover, if, as some believe, the world is on a path to the inevitable weaponization of space, there are clear advantages in assuming the follower role.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Soft power solves democracy </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Kroenig et al, 10 -- Department of Government Georgetown University Washington, DC, USA (Matthew, December 13, 2010, “Taking Soft Power Seriously” Comparative Strategy, 29: 5, 412 — 431<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.matthewkroenig.com/Kroenig_Taking%20Soft%20Power%20Seriously.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States has also attempted to use soft power to promote the spread of democracy around the globe. Unlike in the other two issue areas, the U.S. democracy promotion campaigns met with some success as evidenced by a spate of electoral revolutions in the postcommunist region. We argue that the successful inﬂuence of these U.S. democracy promotion efforts is due to the presence of the necessary conditions for an effective soft power campaign. In the countries that experienced electoral revolutions, there was a functioning marketplace of ideas, the United States identiﬁed and supported credible messengers to transmit ideas about democratization, and ideas about the best practices for bringing down authoritarian regimes could signiﬁcantly impact the outcome.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years, the United States has devoted a disproportionate amount of its democracy promotion attention to the postcommunist region. The proportion of countries receiving USAID democracy assistance, and the duration of time over which the countries receive assistance, are higher in the postcommunist region than in other world regions. A survey of USAID funding from 1990–2003 “reveals that the postcommunist region stands out as a clear priority for USAID with respect to democracy assistance.” 73 Other U.S. government-funded democracy promotion organizations such as the National Endowment for Democracy have similarly concentrated their resources on the postcommunist region.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S.’s soft power strategies aimed at promoting democracy in the postcommunist world since the end of the Cold War have met with notable success. The rate of electoral revolutions in this region has been staggering. According to a recent study, “pivotal elections that have either enhanced or introduced democracy have taken place in eight countries, or 40 percent of the twenty postcommunist countries that remained eligible for such revolutions.” 74 The well-publicized “color revolutions” swept through Georgia (The Rose Revolution, 2003), Ukraine (The Orange Revolution, 2004), and Kyrgyzstan (The Tulip Revolution, 2005).</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The available studies on the wave of electoral revolutions in the postcommunist region all identify American democracy promotion efforts as an important contributing cause of these revolutions, and some scholars go so far as to argue that the revolutions were signiﬁcantly engineered by the United States. 75 For example, in a recent study on Ukraine’s Orange Revolution, Michael McFaul writes that the ideas and resources provided by the United States and other external actors “did play a direct, causal role in constraining some dimensions of autocratic power and enhancing some dimensions of the opposition’s power.” 76 The United States invested in opposition, media, and civil society groups, signaled their displeasure with incumbent authoritarian regimes, and intervened to prevent incumbent regimes from stealing elections. 77</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Democracy is key to solve multiple scenarios for extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Diamond, 95 – Director @ The Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law @ Stanford and Senior Fellow @ The Hoover Institution (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/Promoting%20Democracy%20in%20the%201990s%20Actors%20and%20Instruments,%20Issues%20and%20Imperatives.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic one. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> chemical, and biological</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Most of</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">these</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> new and unconventional</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">threats</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">to security</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">are</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> associated with or</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, andopenness. Lessons of the Twentieth Century The experience of this century offers important lessons.</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Countries that govern themselves in a</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> truly</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">democratic fashion do not go to war</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> with one another. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. Democratic governments</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">do not ethnically "cleanse</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"their own populations, and they are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">do not sponsor terrorism</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> against one another. They</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">do not build weapons of mass destruction</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to use on or to threaten one another.</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Democratic countries form</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> more reliable, open, and</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">enduring</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> trading</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">partnerships</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment.</span> <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">They are more environmentally responsible because they must answer to their own citizens</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments. They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built.</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Capitalism K=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space is the new zone for the state to expand capitalist exploitation- their harms are inevitable in capitalism- infinite wars will be fought over new resources</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dickens 9 – </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The imminent conquest of outer space raises the question of ‘outside’ and ‘inside’</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> yet again. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Capitalism now has the cosmos in its sights, an outside which can be privately or publicly owned, made into a commodity</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, an entity for which nations and private companies can compete. As such </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the cosmos is a possible site of armed hostilities</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. This means,contraHardt and Negri, that there is an outside after all, one into which the competitive market can now expand indefinitely. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">A new kind of imperialism is therefore underway</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, albeit not one attempting to conquer and exploit people ‘outside’ since there are no consumers or labour power to exploit in other parts of the solar system. Ferrying wealthy tourists into the cosmos is a first and perhaps most spectacular part of this process of capital's cosmic expansion. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Especially important in the longer term is making outer space into a source of resources and materials. These will</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in due course </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">be incorporated into production-processes</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, most of which will be still firmly lodged on earth. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Access to outer space is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, potentially at least, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">access to an infinite outside array of resources.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> These apparently have the distinct advantage of not being owned or used by any pre-existing society and not requiring military force by an imperializing power gaining access to these resources. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Bringing this outside zone into capitalism may at first seem beneficial</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to everyone. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">But this</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> scenario </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> almost certainly </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">not so trouble-free</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> as may at first seem. On the one hand, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the investment of capital into outer space would be a huge diversion from</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the investments needed to address </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">many urgent inequalities and crises on Earth.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> On the other hand, this same access is in practice likely to be conducted by a range of competing imperial powers.Hardt and Negri (2000) tell us that the history of imperializing wars is over. This may or may not be the case as regards imperialism on earth. But old-style imperialist, more particularly </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">inter-imperialist, </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">wars seem more likely than ever</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">, as growing and competing power-blocs</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (the USA and China are currently amongst the most likely protagonists) </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">compete for resources on earth and outer space.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Such, in rather general terms, is the prospect for a future, galactic, imperialism between competing powers. But what are the relations, processes and mechanisms underlying this new phenomenon</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">? How should we understand the regional rivalries and ideologies involved and the likely implications of competing empires</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> attempting to incorporate not only their share of resources on earth but on global society's ‘outside’? Social crises, outer spatial fixes and galactic imperialism Explanatory primacy is given here to economic mechanisms driving this humanization of the universe. In the same way that they have driven imperializing societies in the past to expand their economic bases into their ‘outsides’, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the social relations of capitalism and the processes of capital-accumulation are driving the new kind of outer space imperialisms</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Such is the starting-point of this paper (See alsoDickens and Ormrod, 2007). It is a position based on the work of the contemporary Marxist geographerDavid Harvey (2003) and his notion of ‘spatial fixes’. Capitalism continually constructs what he calls ‘outer transformations.’ In the context of the over-accumulation of capital in the primary circuit of industrial capital, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">fresh geographic zones are constantly sought out which have not yet been fully invested in</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> or, in the case of outer space, not yet been invested in at all. ‘</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Outer spatial fixes’ are investments in outer space intended to solve capitalism's many crises</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. At one level they may be simply described as crises of economic profitability. But ‘economic’ can cover a wide array of issues such as crises of resource-availability and potential social and political upheavals resulting from resource-shortages. Furthermore, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">there is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">no guarantee that these investments will actually ‘fix’ these underlying</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> economic, political and social </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">crises. The ‘fix’ may</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> well </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">be</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of a </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">temporary</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, sticking-plaster, variety. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Capitalism causes permanent war-drives, necessitating military aggression and war mobilization.</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robinson 07—Professor of Sociology, Global and International Studies, Latin American and Iberian Studies at the University of California-Santa Barbara </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(William I., “The Pitfalls of Realist Analysis of Global Capitalism: A Critique of Ellen Meiksins Wood’s Empire of Capital”, Historical Materialism, 2007, http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/research/hmrg/activities/documents/Robinson.pdf)//AW</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">By the early twenty-ﬁrst century, global capitalism was in crisis. This crisis involves three interrelated dimensions. First it is a crisis of social polarization. The system cannot meet the needs of a majority of humanity, or even assure minimal social reproduction. Second is a structural crisis of over accumulation. The system cannot expand because the marginalization of a signiﬁcant portion of humanity from direct productive participation, the downward pressure on wages and popular consumption worldwide, and the polarization of income, have reduced the ability of the world market to absorb world output. The problem of surplus absorption makes state-driven military spending and the growth of military-industrial complexes an outlet for surplus and gives the current global order a frightening built-in war drive. Third is a crisis of HIMA legitimacy and authority. The legitimacy of the system has increasingly been called into question by millions, perhaps even billions, of people around the world, and is facing an expanded counter-hegemonic challenge. Neoliberalism ‘peacefully’ forced open new areas for global capital in the 1980s and the 1990s. This was often accomplished through economic coercion alone, as Wood would likely agree, made possible by the structural power of the global economy over individual countries. But this structural power became less effective in the face of the three-pronged crisis mentioned above. Opportunities for both intensive and extensive expansion dried up as privatizations ran their course, as the former ‘socialist’ countries became re-integrated into global capitalism, as the consumption of high-income sectors worldwide reached a ceiling, and so on. The space for ‘peaceful’ expansion, both intensive and extensive, became ever more restricted. Military aggression has become in this context an instrument for prying open new sectors and regions, for the forcible restructuring of space in order to further accumulation. The train of neoliberalism became latched on to military intervention and the threat of coercive sanctions as a locomotive for pulling the moribund Washington consensus forward. The ‘war on terrorism’ provides a seemingly endless military outlet for surplus capital, generates a colossal deﬁcit that justiﬁes the ever-deeper dismantling of the Keynesian welfare state and locks neoliberal austerity in place, and legitimates the creation of a police state to repress political dissent in the name of security. In the post 9/11 period, the military dimension appeared to exercise an over determining inﬂuence in the reconﬁguration of global politics. The Bush régime militarized social and economic contradictions, launching a permanent war mobilization to try to stabilize the system through direct coercion. But was all this evidence for a new US bid for hegemony? A US campaign to ‘compete’ with other major states? To defend ‘its own domestic capital’? To ‘maintain a critical balance’ and ‘control major [state] competitors’? I trust my reasons for rejecting such an argument have been made clear in this critical article.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Capitalism will lead extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Webb, 04 (Sam Webb, National Chairman, Communist Party USA. “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” 4-20-04. http://www.pww.org/article/view/ 4967/1/207/O/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Capitalism was never a warm, cuddly, stable social system. It came into the world dripping with blood from every pore, as Marx described it, laying waste to old forms of production and ways of life in favor of new, more efficient manufacturing. Since then it has combined nearly uninterrupted transformation of the instruments of production with immense wealth for a few and unrelieved exploitation, insecurity, misery, and racial and gender inequality for the many, along with periodic wars, and a vast zone of countries imprisoned in a seemingly inescapable web of abject poverty. Yet as bad as that record is, its most destructive effects on our world could still be ahead. Why do I say that? Because capitalism, with its imperatives of capital accumulation, profit maximization and competition, is the cause of new global problems that threaten the prospects and lives of billions of people worldwide, and, more importantly, it is also a formidable barrier to humankind’s ability to solve these problems. Foremost among these, in addition to ecological degradation, economic crises, population pressures, and endemic diseases, is the threat of nuclear mass annihilation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carroll 10 – *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria (William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the question of counter-hegemony evokes the dialectic of bringing the new into existence</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, against the sedimented practices and relations that, as Marx (1852) wrote, weigh ‘like a nightmare on the brains of the living.’ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Yet it is from existing practices and relations that the new is fabricated</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which is to say that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the future is already contained as potential within the present.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ‘Fermenting in the process of the real itself’ is what Ernst Bloch called ‘the concrete forward dream: anticipating elements are a component of reality itself’ (1986:197). Counter-hegemony, as distinct from defensive forms of subaltern resistance, strives to shape those ‘anticipating elements’, so that they may become lasting features of social life. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">For counter-hegemony, the challenge is to seek out in the present the preconditions for a post-capitalist future and to develop political strategy based on an analysis of those immanent possibilities</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ollman 2003). Gramsci captured this dialectic with the metaphor of welding the present to the future: </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">How can the present be welded to the future, so that while satisfying the urgent necessities of the one we may work effectively to create and ‘anticipate’ the other</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (1977: 65)? </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The new is no mere ‘fashion’, the latter being a preferred trope of modernity</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Blumer 1969), </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">closely integrated with consumer-capitalist accumulation strategies</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and thus with reproducing the status quo. Often the new reworks the old, with radical effects. Viewed dialectically, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the new preserves yet transforms extant reality, as in the incorporation of</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> indigenous ways as </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">alternatives to neoliberal practices that have grown decidedly old</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (cf. Bahn 2009). </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">This dialectic between what already exists and what might be constructed out of that is integral to any project of purposeful socio-political change. Movements</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, as Melucci (1989) has emphasized, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">are laboratories for social invention.</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> They are carriers of the ‘new means and values, new practices, new relationships and kinds of relationships’ that Williams (1977: 123) identified with cultural emergence; ‘emergent publics’ that create possibilities for a more democratic way of life (Angus 2001). </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Movements succeed in creating change when political and cultural opportunity structures open up</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Tarrow 1998). </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">But which movements</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which practices and which alignments of movements and practices, in short which ‘new combinations’ (Dyer-Witheford 2001) </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">might already carry the new – and under what contemporary conditions might they have efficacy?</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> These are more concrete questions of counter-hegemony. Theorists of agency and structure note that, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">although social structures are sustained solely through the practices that reproduce them, such practices</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, precisely because they are structurally reproductive, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">do not produce much that is new; only transformative practices have that capacity</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bhaskar 1989; Fraser 1995). Indeed, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">a</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> well-established </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">hegemonic structure naturalizes social cleavages and contradictions, securing</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the active, agentic consent of </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">subalterns to their subordination</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

===Nietzsche K=== 
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WE REALLY DIDN’T WANT TO BREAK IT TO YOU, BUT PAIN AND SUFFERING ARE INEVITABLE. </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE AFF SEEMS TO THINK THIS TOTALLY SUCKS, AND THEY HAVE GIVEN YOU A WAY TO CURE SEEMINGLY AWFUL PROBLEMS. HOWEVER, THE 1AC’S METHODOLOGY ASSUMES LIFE CAN ONLY BE GOOD WITHOUT PAIN AND INSECURITY, WHICH NEGATES LIFE AND CAUSES UNENDING VIOLENCE. </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">SCOTT 90</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Charles E., professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, “The Question of Ethics: Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger,” Ed. John Sallis, p. 173-174)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">One pathogenic aspect of our Western ethos that we have followed is the ascetic ideal. It is characterized by many types of refusal and denial regarding the manner in which human life occurs, and on Nietzsche's account the ascetic ideal reinforces this denial with a habitual insistence on the continuous presence of meaning in all dimensions of life and being. In our ascetic withdrawal from life we join forces with hopelessness, suffering, death, and helplessness by giving them meaning, in our appropriation of them, that far exceeds their occurrence and that subordinates them within a scheme of meaning and hope. The rule governing the ascetic ideal is found in its incorporation and blind expression of the hopelessness and meaninglessness that it is designed to overcome. This incorporation of what it is constitutes the ideal's nihilism for Nietzsche: the affirmations within the ascetic ideal project their opposites and produce a spiral of unwitting and inevitable violence in the spirituality that they create. The denial of life within the boundaries of the ascetic ideal continuously reestablishes the power of the ideal. But when this movement is broken by a self-overcoming like that in Nietzsche's genealogy of the ascetic ideal, the rule of the ascetic ideal is interrupted and a possibility is opened for life-affirmations that do not suppress the most fearful occurrences involved in being alive. The joyousness of life without the illusion of continuous meaning, the joyousness that Nietzsche found in early Greek culture, was lost, according to his reading, in the course of the increasing cultural dominance of those whose nerve has failed before the disheartening flow of life. The ascetic ideal expresses this failure in its insistence on meaning and in its persistent manufacture of hope out of illusions bred of the failure. Heidegger is perhaps at his most non-Nietzschean point when in his Rector's address he turns to the Greek division between the everyday and the question of being. This is an ironic moment in Heidegger's thought: he traces the origins of his own move to separate the future of the German university from the German Volkstum, (that is, from dominant popular culture) to the emergence of the separation of thought from everyday life in Greek culture. But this move is not associated with the joyousness that Nietzsche uses as his reference in delimiting the ascetic ideal. According to Nietzsche's genealogy we have lost an earthly affirmation of life in the midst of the specific suffering of everyday existence. Nietzsche countenances fully the brutality, the fateful shattering of hope, the disappointments that break people's lives, the individual and social tragedies. The debilitation of minds and bodies is juxtaposed to people's savoring food and drink, enjoying sexual pleasure. It is juxtaposed to friendship, the energy of ambition, the struggle between competitors, the mixture of desperation and exhilaration in efforts of accomplishment. Nietzsche's move is toward affirmation in the midst of chaotic living when he speaks of what is lost in the blind and self-deceived chaos of asceticism that is ordered by the illusion of continuous meaning. In this affirmation one has an awareness, presumably a full awareness, of the otherness to human interest that radically distresses us. People's attention is delimited by it. Rather than escape or turn away from it, people are delimited by it in their relations with things. Rather than appropriate the suffering of life in ascetic self-denial, human beings stand over against its otherness, its unthinkableness, its density. They need not attempt to embody it in forms that seem to shape it to human and thinkable dimensions. They live in the inappropriable, meaningless dark vacuity, with it and other to it, out of it and in it. They are angel and animal, Nietzsche said. Not to be lost, not to be redeemed, not to be overcome, it is juxtaposed to a will to live, an affirmation with, and not in spite of, the chaos. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THUS, THE ALTERNATIVE IS TO AFFIRM CHAOS AND EMBRACE DIFFERENCE. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WE LIVE IN A DANGEROUS WORLD. EFFORTS TO CONTROL FEAR HAVE RESULTED IN MILLIONS OF DEATHS AND CREATED WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE ALTERNATIVE ALLOWS US TO LEARN TO LIVE WITH THE WORLD AS IT IS. ADMITTING THAT EVERYTHING IS DANGEROUS WILL END THE DEATH CYCLE. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Der Derian 98 – Prof Political Science at University of Mass.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, 1998. On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">No other concept in international relations packs the metaphysical punch, nor commands the disciplinary power of "security." In its name, peoples have alienated their fears, rights and powers to gods, emperors, and most recently, sovereign states, all to protect themselves from the vicissitudes of nature--as well as from other gods, emperors, and sovereign states. In its name, weapons of mass destruction have been developed which have transfigured national interest into a security dilemma based on a suicide pact. And, less often noted in international relations, in its name billions have been made and millions killed while scientific knowledge has been furthered and intellectual dissent muted. We have inherited an ontotheology of security, that is, an a priori argument that proves the existence and necessity of only one form of security because there currently happens to be a widespread, metaphysical belief in it. Indeed, within the concept of security lurks the entire history of western metaphysics, which was best described by Derrida "as a series of substitutions of center for center" in a perpetual search for the "transcendental signified." From God to Rational Man, from Empire to Republic, from King to the People--and on occasion in the reverse direction as well, for history is never so linear, never so neat as we would write it--the security of the center has been the shifting site from which the forces of authority, order, and identity philosophically defined and physically kept at bay anarchy, chaos, and difference. Yet the center, as modern poets and postmodern critics tell us, no longer holds. The demise of a bipolar system, the diffusion of power into new political, national, and economic constellations, the decline of civil society and the rise of the shopping mall, the acceleration of everything --transportation, capital and information flows, change itself--have induced a new anxiety. As George Bush repeatedly said--that is, until the 1992 Presidential election went into full swing--"The enemy is unpredictability. The enemy is instability." One immediate response, the unthinking reaction, is to master this anxiety and to resecure the center by remapping the peripheral threats. In this vein, the Pentagon prepares seven military scenarios for future conflict, ranging from latino small-fry to an IdentiKit super-enemy that goes by the generic acronym of REGT ("Reemergent Global Threat"). In the heartlands of America, Toyota sledge-hammering returns as a popular know-nothing distraction. And within the Washington beltway, rogue powers such as North Korea, Iraq, and Libya take on the status of pariah-state and potential video bomb-site for a permanently electioneering elite. </span>

==Impact Turns== 
===China War Good=== 


===Russian Aerospace Good=== 



===Heg Bad=== 
===﻿US-China Relations Bad=== 


=Negative Strategy= 
==Greenhill== 
**Round 1 (Westminster WX) - SSA**
1NC: ASPEC, T-Human Commercial, Weaponization DA, SKFTA DA, Capitalism K, Nanotech DA, Privatization CP, China War Good
2NC: Cap K
1NR: Nano, Weaponization
2NR: Cap K


**Round 4 (Jesuit College KD) - SPS**
1NC: T-Human Commerical, Russia CP, Weaponization DA, Diplomatic Capital DA, Capitalism K, Case Defense, Russian Aerospace Good, Hegemony Bad
2NC: Russia CP, Dip Cap,
1NR: Heg Bad, Russia Aerospace Good, Case Defense
2NR: Russia CP, Dip Cap, Case Defense


**Round 6 (Bingham GH) - SBMD**
1NC: T-Human Commercial, Solvency Advocate, Weaponization DA, Nietzsche K, Code of Conduct CP, SKFTA DA, Soft Power DA, Case Defense
2NC: Nietzsche, Case Defense
1NR: SKFTA
2NR: Nietzsche


==Valley== 
**Round 1 (Eagan WD) - Hardening**
1NC: T-Human Commercial, Weaponization DA, Code of Conduct CP, SKFTA DA, Capitalism K, Nanotech DA, Case Defense
2NC: Weaponization, Cap, Case
1NR: Nano, SKFTA, Case
2NR: Nano, Weaponization, Case
**Round 3 (U of Chicago KL) - SBMD**
1NC: T-Human Commercial, Weaponization DA, Code of Conduct CP, Diplomatic Capital DA, Capitalism K, Nanotech DA, Case Defense
2NC: Weaponization, Case
1NR: Nano, Dip Cap, Case
2NR: Cap?, Weaponization, Nano

**Round 5 (Kent Denver LM) - SSA**
1NC: T-Human Commercial, Capitalism K, Nanotech DA, Diplomatic Capital DA, Privatization CP, Case Defense, US-China Relations Bad
2NC: Weaponization, Dip Cap
1NR: Case, Sino Relations Bad
2NR: Case, Sino Relations Bad

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]