I will put up every 1AC and I will put up the 1NC shell to every off case argument all other cites by request.
Any questions about the wiki/you want 1NC cards or 2AC cards email [[mailto:clyde.shepherd.2@gmail.com|clyde.shepherd.2@gmail.com]]. If you want 2NC cards email [[mailto:tannerlewis1@gmail.com|tannerlewis1@gmail.com]].
=Table of Contents= 
[[toc]]
=**Affirmative**= 
==**1AC WAKE FORREST:**== 
**Contention 1 Inherency**
**SBSP is not being developed because of high focus on nuclear power.**
**Space Future 6**
Overall, there is …for their development

Plan
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should deploy space based solar powered satellites beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**
=== === 
**Contention two is Hegemony:**
**The US aerospace industrial base is collapsing – an investment in space solar power is necessary to revitalize aerospace research and development, workforce, and infrastructure development**
**<span style="color: #000000;">NSSO, 7 </span>**
The SBSP Study …expression of this imperativ<span style="color: #000000;">e</span>

**Declining aerospace leadership directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Snead, 07 </span>**
Great power status… administration should exercise<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

**Indpendently, SPS is key to overall military dominance**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ramos </span>00**
<span style="color: #000000;">Solar power satellites.... spillage clean up kits**.**</span>

**This could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Kagan, 7 </span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">This is a good thing, …global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>


**Even if decline is inevitable, delaying it is crucial to prevent transition wars**
**Pape 9**
All of __this... accelerating our own downfall.__
**The current space race risks a space Pearl Harbor against U.S. space assets – this will collapse the global economy and hegemony**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Choong, 8 - </span>**
In January Congressional... testimony last month<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000;">Economic collapse causes global war</span>**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #000000;">Auslin, 09</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">As they deal... </span>destroyed international systems in the past.

**SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control-, make them more survivable and reconstitute lost assets rapidly**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Ramos 2k</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> –</span>
SpaceIn addition… to meet warfighter requirements.

**Heg is sustainable and will de-escalate all scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Joffe 08**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">And yet, for all… </span>housekeeper of the world.

<span class="apple-style-span">**SSP pilot projects can be up and running within one year**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**Costa, 10** //-// </span>
If we took... solution here on earth.


<span style="color: #000000;"> Contention 3 is Energy</span>
**Greater federal support for Space-Based Solar Power is the only way to meet rising energy demand --- averts extinction from unsustainable development, specifically warming, environmental collapse, prolif and nuclear terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hsu ‘07 </span>**
Hsu: It is imperative …of the stars!”.


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">SSP can scale up --- meets global energy demand </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Garretson ’10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The significance of… national tech base.</span>

**SSP is key to avoid downsides of current energy mix like warming, proliferation and resource wars --- perception of viable alternatives are key to avert state failure and great power conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSSO ‘07 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">: The SBSP Study Group… without CO2 sequestration. </span>


**Escalates to extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heinberg ‘03</span>**
**In the past… of <span style="text-decoration: none;">the biosphere</span>.**
**Environmental collapse causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ghista ‘05 </span>**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Biodiversity is crucial …causing havoc to our environment</span>.

**Oil shortagecauses US-Russia War**
**Klarke '08**
The deployment of escalation can be triggered<span style="color: #000000;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">**US-Russia War Causes Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bostrom ‘2** </span>
<span class="Underline">The first manmade …that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**SSP can meet military demands more easily than civilian demands because it can use a higher starting price point**
**Betancourt, 10** -
The most recent study of ….SBSP lower over time<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">1AC Chattahooche</span>== 

**SAME INHERENCY AS ABOVE**

PLAN
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should deploy space based solar powered satellites beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**

**Contention 2: Aerospace**

**Uncertainty about key government programs is devastating the Aerospace industry. The impact is hegemony, the economy and competitiveness --- renewed government support is key**

**Slazer ’11**
Despite the clear

**SSP is vital to the industry and defense base overall, the plan sends a signal bolstering U.S. tech competitiveness --- overcomes alt causes**
**NSSO ‘07**
(
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found… __**of this imperative.**__


**The plan fixes structural shortages within the industry**

**Sadeh ‘08**
__**//Maintain//****support**__ fo…r __**in the**__ 19__**60s**__.


**Spills over --- solves hegemony, science leadership and the economy**

**Baker Institute ‘05**
__**A new energy …about**__,” said Dr. Smalley.


**Economic declne causes global conflict**
**Austin ‘09**
What do …into __**a big bang.**__

**Declining aerospace leadership directly facilitates the emergence of hostile global rivals**
**Snead, 07 -**

__Great power ….__administration should exercise.

**This could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world**
**Kagan, 7 -**
This is a good thing, …an easier path.

**Technological development is the key to US hegemony**
**Segal**
__The United States…__technological entrepreneurship at home.

**Heg is sustainable and will de-escalate all scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Joffe 09**
And yet, for all the anti-… __housekeeper of the world.__

SAME ENERGY ADV. AS ABOVE

==1ac Houston== 
**Same Inherency as above**

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should deploy space based solar powered satellites beyond the earth's mesosphere.**

**Same Aerospace Advantage As above**


**Contention 3 : Energy**

**Greater federal support for SPS is the only way to meet rising energy demand ---The technology is ready and it is the best type of energy**
**Hsu ‘07**
Hsu: It is imperative …of the stars!”.


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">SSP can scale up --- meets global energy demand</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Garretson ’10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The significance of… national tech base.</span>

**SPS solves downsides of the current energy mix-such as biodiversity collapse and resource wars**
**Hsu 10 –**
It has become …__chance to make a difference__.

**We will isolate 2 impacts:**

**1.Biodiversity is on the brink**
**Speth 8 –**
__The cumulative effect of …their populations in forty years__.

**Biodiversity loss causes extinction**
**Coyne and Hoekstra ‘7**
But we biologists know in our …greatest dying of them all.


Same US-Russia war stuff as above


**AND solvency**

**New tech makes SPS possible**
S**mith 08**--
AS we face $4.50 a gallon gas…of energy much greater.

**Now is the ideal time for SPS – costs have dropped and new technology makes it more profitable than ever**
**McLinko, 10** -
The overall efficiency... earth's electrical grids.

==1AC Umich== 
same inherency
same plan
same aerospace advantage

on energy we replaced the Hsu cards and garreston

__**Environmental disasters inevitable without SPS**__
**Klare 10**


At the onset of the modern ….. a plausible basis in fact

and right before the US-russia war impact we added:

**All major energy sources are finite – exhaustion is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand**
**Snead 8**
__By 2100, the number …. power generation capability for the world__.

and on solvency we added:

**Only SSP can meet demand rising demand – no other technology can come close**
**Nansen 10 – Former space engineer**
Today __we face the compounding …. out of energy well before 2100__."[2]

**SSP is the only viable alternative—it solves the economy, readiness, and energy exhaustion—it also creates tech spin offs that are key to space development**
**Space Enterprise Council, 8**
__The Space Enterprise Council ….. global community in which we live.__

==__1AC Glenbrooks__== 
same inherency
same plan text
same aerospace advantage but we added:

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The aerospace industry about to collapse, on the absolute brink – this assumes alt causes**</span>
**Anselmo and Hedden 8/19**
__But on the defense and ….**develop and build all-new products.”**__


we replaced the extinction card on the US-Russia war impact

**US-Russia War Leads to Extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 9**
President __Obama and Russian ….__1995 remains in place today.


==1AC Lexington== 

**Contention 1 is Inherency:**
**SPS inevitable- eight countries. It's a matter of US developing first**
**NSSO 7 –** report by the National Security Space Office, a branch of the DOD
(“Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf, dml)
The __SBSP Study Group …. construction of such a framework immediately.__

Contention 2 is hegemony


We will isolate two internal links to hegemony:
__**1**__
**Environmental Leadership is key to hegemony and is being challenged now-**
**Klarevas 9**(Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “**Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony**”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html)

__By not addressing climate change ….__ employed to keep potential foes in check.

**AND Only SSP can meet demand rising energy demand – no other technology can come close**
**Nansen 10 – Former space engineer**
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today __we face the compounding … --- we will run out of energy well before 2100__."[2]


**2.**
**Space Heg. is declining -end of the space shuttle**
**Dunn 7/8**- (Marcia Dunn, July 8, 2011, “NASA's last space shuttle blasts into history”, Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2011/07/08/science-us-space-shuttle_8555523.html)
This day of reckoning has been coming since 2004, a year after the Columbia tragedy, when President George W. Bush announced the retirement of the shuttle and put NASA on a course back to the moon. President Barack __Obama canceled the back-to-the-moon program ….__ led the agency from 2005 to 2008.


**SPS is vital to space control**
**Ramos 2k** – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928)

__Should the Air Force pursue solar power technology…__and Internet access as well as power.


**AND- Space is the backbone of US hegemony**
**Stevens 7** Robert J. Stevens – Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, summa cum laude graduate of Slippery Rock University, master's degree in engineering and management from the Polytechnic University of New York, with a Fairchild Fellowship, earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia Business School, graduate of the Department of Defense Systems Management College Program Management, served in the United States Marine Corps, (Lockheed Martin, 4/10/2007, 23rd National Space Symposium, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership”, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/news/speeches/Next50YearsOfUSSpaceLeadership.html)
I want to thank the organizers of the 23rd National Space Symposium …. __capabilities and India is developing them__.”



We will isolate 2 impacts:


**1.**
**Hegemony collapse results in nuclear conflict everywhere**
**Kagan, 7 -** senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, and it should continue …. global involvement will provide an easier path.


**2.**
**US space supremacy key to cooperation**
**Friedman 11** (Lou Friedman -- former Executive Director of The Planetary Society, Director of the Society's LightSail Program, former Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at NASA Jet Propulsion Labs, (The Space Review, 2/14/2011 “American leadership”, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1778/1)
“American Leadership” is a phrase we hear ….__national and international political agenda.__

**AND- Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
<span style="color: #0f0f0f;">**Hitchens, 8** – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #0f0f0f;">__Perhaps of even greater concern is …__</span> alternative would be unacceptable to all.







**AND- Heg is sustainable and will de-escalate all scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Joffe 09** Josef, Senior Fellow at Stanford's Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, ("The Default Power Subtitle: The False Prophecy of America's Decline", Foreign Affairs, Oct 2009)

And yet, for all the anti-Americanism that has coursed through western Europe…__take over as housekeeper of the world.__

**AND- All their turns are inevitable - zero chances of willful US restraint – we’ll inevitably be engaged globally – the only question is effectiveness**
**Shalmon and Horowitz 09** (Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)
__**It is important to recognize at the outset**__…. inevitable given America’s role in the global order.24


__**Advantage 2 is economy**__

__**We will isolate 2 internal links to the economy**__


__**1.**__
__**SPS ends oil dependence- US government is key**__
__**Nansen 9**__ led the Boeing team of engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, andPresident Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Energy Crisis: Solution from Space, __p.22, FS)__
__So what is the solution? …. has the responsibility to lead the way.__

**AND-Oil wars will go nuclear**
**Qasem ‘7** (Islam, Masters in IR – Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage”, 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm)
__Recognizing the strategic value of …. national interests are high__.


**AND- Oil dependency kills the economy**

**Hirsch 05**__—f__ormer senior energy program adviser for Science Applications International Corporation and is a Senior Energy Advisor at MISI (February, Robert L., SAIC, “PEAKING OF WORLD OIL PRODUCTION: IMPACTS, MITIGATION, & RISK MANAGEMENT”, http://www.netl.doe.gov/publications/others/pdf/oil_peaking_netl.pdf)

__A shortfall of oil ….job losses will increase.__


**2.**
**Massive US trade deficits is about to soar – stopping this is critical to the global economic recovery – impact is global protectionist trade**
**Suominen 11**-Resident Fellow in Economics @ German Marshall Fund the United States
Recrafting the Post-Crisis World Economy: Transatlantic Policy Options for Global Rebalancing, Executive summary of the Analytical Paper, New Atlantic Capitalism, 20-21 June 2011, Paris, Kati Suominen* Resident Fellow, Economics, German Marshall Fund the United States, Washington DC
http://www.atlanticcapitalism.eu/resources/Kati_Suominen_Recrafting_the_post_crisis_economy_Summary.pdf __As the world emerges from the economic crisis, …. twin deficits soar much further.__


**Specifically – a** __**//fast and large//**__ **US investment in SPS turns the US into a** __**//net energy exporter-eliminates the trade deficit//**__
**Chapman et al 11** – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost of deploying SBSP….__**must import electricity as well as petroleum**__**.**




**AND- Large trade deficit with China has led Congress to favor protectionism bills**
**NYT 10** (“Return of the Killer Trade Deficit” August 16, 2010. New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/16/opinion/16mon1.html) AK
The world economy is falling back on very dangerous habits…. __to bolster demand right now.__

**China Bashing passage crushes Chinese agricultural profits, causing widespread social instability**
**Holland 05** (Tom – China Writer – South China Morning Post, 5-7, Lexis)

On the other hand, __a 10 per cent revaluation ….hina's leaders are desperate to avoid__.

**The result is a CCP lash-out causing billions of deaths**
**Rexing 05** (Sam, Epoch Times, 8-5, http://english.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)
__Since the Party’s life is “above all else,…billion people hostage and gamble with their lives__.


**AND- China bashing bill will kill our economy – empirically proven**
**Scissors 10** (Derek Scissors, Research Fellow on Asian Economic Policy at the Heritage Foundation. “How to Cause Another Depression? Anyone? Anyone?” The Foundry, Heritage Foundation. September 23, 2010. http://blog.heritage.org/2010/09/23/how-to-cause-another-depression-anyone-anyone/) AK
__An ugly financial bubble bursts. …..__ is heading down the wrong path. Again.








**Economic decline causes war – studies prove**
**Royal 10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
__Less intuitive is how ….__ economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should deploy solar powered satellites beyond the earth’s mesosphere.



**Contention 4 is SOLVENCY**


**SSP can be up and running within one year**

**Costa, 10** //-// //sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies//.//A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric//

//Rebecca,// “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/

If we took a moment to …. other energy solution here on earth.

**No cost or tech barriers- we can build it efficiently now**

**Smith, 2008**[O. Glenn, a former manager of science and applications experiments for the International Space Station at NASA’s Johnson Space Center. July 23, 2008, NYT, Harvest the Sun — From Space, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/23/opinion/23smith.html


AS we face $4.50 a gallon gas… a solar power satellite system.

**Now is the ideal time for SPS – costs have dropped and new technology makes it more profitable than ever**
**McLinko, 10** - SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)RK

9. CONCLUSION
__The overall efficiency ….SSP power into Earth’s electrical grids.__

==__1AC Novice State__== 
Same Inherency



ADV. 1 Heg.

**Environmental Leadership is key to hegemony and is being challenged now-**
**Klarevas 9**(Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “**Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony**”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html)

__By not addressing climate change more aggressively …__ to keep potential foes in check.

**AND Only SSP can meet demand rising energy demand – no other technology can come close**
**Nansen 10** – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today __we face the compounding problems …energy well before 2100__."[2]


__**Environmental disasters inevitable without SPS**__

__**Klare 10**--__ a professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College (6/22/10, Michael T., AlterNet, “Four Possible BP-Style Extreme Energy Nightmares to Come”, http://www.alternet.org/story/147293/four_possible_bp-style_extreme_energy_nightmares_to_come/?page=1)

At the onset of the …each has a plausible basis in fact
**Environmental collapse causes extinction.**
**Cairns ‘4** (John, Distinguished Emeritus University Prof. Env. Biology – Viginia Tech, “Future of Life on Earth,” Ethics in Science and Environmental Politics, http://www.int-res.com/esepbooks/EB2Pt2.pdf)
__One lesson from the five great global extinctions ….__by continuing to live unsustainably?




**And, the PERCEPTION of US weaponization is occurring now**
**I**nternational **B**usiness **T**imes News 3/6/2k**11**
(“Space weaponry in focus as US Air Force launches mysterious X-37B robotic plane,” pg lexis//ef)//
//The Air Force has said the unmanned mission is intended to test out new spacecraft technologies… War College in Newport, as saying last year.//

//**SPS solves multilateral co-operation and is key to Obamas NSP**//

//**Flournoy** **’****10**//
//(Dan,- professor of Telecommunications @ Ohio State, Ph.d and editor of the Online Journal of Space Communication 9-13 “Why Not Space Solar Power?” http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100913why-not-space-solar-power.html)//
//Among __the goals of__ President Barack __Obama’s__ National __Space Policy …. renewable energy and continued economic growth__.//



//**Shoring up international norms is vital to preventing space weaponization – it’s inevitable without US led cooperation**//
//**Wright, 7** - co-director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists (David, Boston Globe, “Protecting our future in space”, 10/3, http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/10/03/protecting_our_future_in_space/)//

//So, in looking forward, we __need to …. space as well as security on Earth.__//




//**Soft power is key to heg**//
//**Armitage and Nye 07** Former Deputy Secretary of State, Professor of Political Science at Harvard[Richard and Joseph “Why So Angry, America?”// The Washington Post//, December 9th (http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2007/12/05/AR2007120502254_pf.html)]//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The world is dissatisfied with American leadership….precisely because of this integrated approach.</span>

//Same Kagan Impact Here//


//**AND- Heg is sustainable and will de-escalate all scenarios for nuclear conflict**//
//**Joffe 09** Josef, Senior Fellow at Stanford's Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, ("The Default Power Subtitle: The False Prophecy of America's Decline", Foreign Affairs, Oct 2009)//

//And yet, for all the anti-Americanism that has coursed through western Europe…__take over as housekeeper of the world.__//

//**AND- All their turns are inevitable - zero chances of willful US restraint – we’ll inevitably be engaged globally – the only question is effectiveness**//
//**Shalmon and Horowitz 09** (Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)//
//__**It is important to recognize at the outset**__…. inevitable given America’s role in the global order.24//






//__**Adv. 2 Is Economy**__//

//Same Oil cards from lexington here//

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The aerospace industry is collapsing**</span>
//**Anselmo and Hedden 8/19 –** (Joseph C.,// Deputy managing editor at Aviation Week, //Carole Rickard,// President of Write Stuff and Project Leader for Aviation week’s Workforce Study, //8-19-11, Aerospace workforce crisis deferred, __http://www.okaero.com/news/2011/08/23/u-s-aerospace-industry/)__//
//__But on the defense and space side of the industry…. **nation to develop and build all-new products.”**__//


//**AND- SPS solves aerospace before** __**any component**__ **goes into space**//
//**SEC 8**//
//Space Enterprise Council, 2008, NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-SECSpaceBasedSolarPowerWhitePaper.pdf//
//__SBSP__ is unusual among renewable energy …. a competitor with, terrestrial solar power generation.//




//**AND-Aerospace is key to cyber-defense**//

//**O’Hanlon ’11**//
//(Michael,- Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Feb “The National Security Industrial Base: A Crucial Asset of the United States, Whose Future May Be in Jeopardy”)//
//Good __**defense industrial policy ….**__ defined needs in a future environment.//




//**The impact is accidental nuclear war**//

//**Fritz ‘09**//
//(Jason, BS – St. Cloud, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control”, Study Commissioned on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, July, www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc)//
//Direct control of launch The …., and accusations between governments.//


//**Aerospace Industry is key to the economy**//
//**Blakey**, President of the AIA**, 8** (Marion, President and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association, " Launching the 21st Century American Aerospace Workforce ," December, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/report_workforce_1208.pdf, EMM)//
//__The Importance of U.S. Aerospace in America’s Economy__ …. skilled machinists and precision production jobs.10//






//**Economic decline causes war – studies prove**//
//**Royal 10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]//
//__Less intuitive is how periods of economic ….__ economic-security debate and deserves more attention.//
//Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should deploy space based solar power beyond the earth’s mesosphere in non-geostationary orbit.//


//Plan: The United States Federal Government should deploy space based solar power beyond the earth's mesosphere in non-geostationary orbit.//

//**Non geo-orbit makes SPS feasible**//
//**Jones 10** (Royce, Space Technology Entrepeneur, BA in Construction Management, Computer Programming, and Computer Aided Design, Former Marine Corps NCO, Expert on SPS, " Alternative Orbits: A New Space Solar Power Reference Design," Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html, EMM)//


//__This paper offers a new space solar power ….substantially reduce SSP satellite mass.__//


//**No cost or tech barriers- we can build it efficiently now**//

//**Smith, 2008**[O. Glenn, a former manager of science and applications experiments for the International Space Station at NASA’s Johnson Space Center. July 23, 2008, NYT, Harvest the Sun — From Space, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/23/opinion/23smith.html//


//__AS we face $4.50 a gallon gas, …. sending up a solar power satellite system__//__.//__





**SPS is technologically viable- we indict Day and NSSO indicts**
**Ashworth, 8** (Stephen, Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23,http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)
__Usually, Day’s articles are among the best-…..completely contradicted by the actual contents of the NSSO study report.__

**Now is the ideal time for SPS – costs have dropped and new technology makes it more profitable than ever**
**McLinko, 10** - SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)RK

9. CONCLUSION
__The overall efficiency of this distributed satellite …. SSP power into Earth’s electrical grids.__

==__1AC Harvard__== 
Same exact thing except we replaced the wright '7 card on the cooperation impact with
**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even...unacceptable to all</span>



==1AC Novice Nationals== 
Same aff as harvard

==1AC Novice Nationals (Semis vs. Westminster SF)== 
Updated Inherency
**SPS inev- Japan, China, India, and ESA all developing**
**Future Power Technology 12** (“Sunny Prospects: With Progress in Technology and the Market is Picking Up, Solar Power is Set to Enter the Next Phase,” February, Areva, [[%22http://viewe|http://viewer.zmags.com/publication/764ed229#/764ed229/1]])//

//__Japan__ is __currently__ the only country with a __…. energy in space will be the world leader__. The race is on.//



//Replaced Environmental Leadership Internal with://
//**US aerospace industry is on the brink of collapse**//
//**-**overall US economy is not an alt cause//
//**PRI 2/6** (Performance Review Institute, PRI is a global provider of customer focused solutions designed to improve process and product quality by adding value, reducing total cost and promoting collaboration among stakeholders in industries where safety and quality are shared goals, “Aerospace Industry Experts Caution Over 2012 Outlook,”, 2012, <span style="color: #191aa3;">[[%22http:</span>//|http://www.pri-network.org/PRI/Aerospace-Industry-Experts-Caution-Over-2012-Outlook.id.1254.htm]])
__Marion Blakey, President & CEO of AIA noted…is a difficult task, but PRI will.__



**SPS solves aerospace before** __**any component**__ **goes into space**
**SEC 8**
Space Enterprise Council, 2008, NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-SECSpaceBasedSolarPowerWhitePaper.pdf
__SBSP__ is unusual among renewable energy options … solar power generation.



**When Aerospace leadership collapses hegemony goes with it**
**Snead, 07 -** Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development (Mike, “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx)

__Great power status is achieved through competition….__presidential administration should exercise.


Replaced Economy Advantage with:


**NASA budget is on the chopping block – public interest is at an all time low – only SPS can restore credibility and funding – its specifically key to the human space program**

**Costa ’10** (Rebecca, Sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[%22http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can|http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can- NASA-save-struggling-america/]],)//

//If we took a moment to rank every government … __most remote villages of the world.__//

//**NASA credibility is key to effective Earth sciences - solves multiple scenarios for environmental destruction and extinction - specifically ozone destruction, air pollution, and ocean**//

//**Killeen 5** (Timothy L., Director – National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science”, CQ Congressional Testimony, 4-28, Lexis)//

//It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite observations that …. ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses.//



//**Ozone depletion causes extinction**//

//**Smith and Daniel ’99**, (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone”[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]])//
//__The ozone layer is critical to life on Earth because it absorbs biologically damaging solar ultraviolet radiation….terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems also may occur__ (Martin [1998], WMO [1998])//

//**Left unchecked, air pollution risks extinction Driesen 03**//
//(David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, lexis) __Air pollution can make life unsustainable ….can life a healthy and productive life.__//



//**Ocean acidification causes extincion**//
//**Craig – Associate Professor of Law @ Indiana – 2003** (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,”// McGeorge Law Review//, Winter [34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155], Lexis/Nexis)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems …., wraith-like blobs of jelly." <span style="color: #2c2cf6; vertical-align: 5px;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1309213141845&returnToKey=20_T12244674314&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.604907.8859651746%22%20%5Cl%20%22864|__n864__]]</span> More importantly, the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.

*New Plan text:
Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should develop space by deploying space based solar power beyond the earth’s mesosphere in non-geostationary orbit.
=Negative= 
==**Disadvantages:**== 
===**Politics:**=== 
====**SKFTA**==== 
<span class="Underline">**SKFTA will pass – jumpstarts global trade talks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goforth 8-19**</span>
<span class="Underline">At long last...top seize on</span>

<span class="Underline">(your plan is unpopular email me for the link to your plan)</span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama’s political capital is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wharton '11**</span>
<span class="Underline">The tea party...policy for decades</span>

<span class="Underline">**New trade talks key to prevent deglobalization – the impact is great power wars**</span>
**Hillebrand 10**
A long line...interstate war arises

====**China Bashing**==== 
__**China bashing is gaining traction – Obama will veto but hasn’t taken a position publicly**__
__**The Hill 10-11**__
__The Senate …many supporters of legislation highlight.__

(your plan is unpopular email me for specific link)

__**Capital is key to hold off the bill**__
__**Palmer 9-**__
__This month business ….Obama does not expend political capital to block it.__


__**Currency pressure causes a trade war, kills the economy**__

__**Xinhua 10-11**__

__BEIJING, Oct. 11 (Xinhua) -- Intense debates on legislation ….up waves of trade war.__

====**Treasury Report**==== 
**Uniqueness – Treasury Report is due in November – Obama won’t name China a currency manipulator now.**
**Robb 10-14**.
__The Treasury ….__Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Leaders meeting Nov. 12-13 in Honolulu.

**(your plan is unpopular email me for specific link)**

**AND CAPITAL IS KEY TO PREVENT OBAMA FROM APPEASING CONGRESS BY FORMALLY LABELING CHINA A CURRENCY MANIPULATOR.**
__**PETHOKOUKIS 3-10**__. [
And __the situation could worsen…. **Obama needs to lead.**__

**C. IMPACT --**
**MANIPULATOR LABEL ENSURES ESCALATING TENSIONS – RESULTS IN TBILL SELL OFF, ECONOMIC COLLAPSE AND RELATIONS FAIL.**
__**MCNALLY 9**__**.**
The unraveling of …fragile relationship through tough times.

====Payroll==== 

**Payroll tax cut will pass**
**Ohlemacher 10-24**
WASHINGTON __Congress will almost ….__neighborhood stabilization fund.

(your plan is unpopular email me for the link)

__**Capital key to tax cuts**__
**Philadelphia Inquirer 9-8**
__Republicans and the … to privatize Social Security.__

__**Allowing the tax cuts to expire kills the economy**__
__**Reuters 10-6**__
__Failure to extend a payroll tax …then we need to act soon," Casey told Reuters.__

====__Jackson Vanick__==== 


**Uniqueness - Will pass but it’ll be a fight.**
**Needham 12-16**. [Vicki, journalist, “Russia takes next step toward WTO membership” The Hill -- http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/199933-russia-takes-next-step-toward-wto-membershp]
Still, __lawmakers on Capitol Hill ….Business organziations also back the move.__

(your plan is unpopular email me for the link)

**Capital key.**
**Moscow Times 11.**[ “U.S. Senators Side With Georgia on WTO Issue” October 21 -- http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/us-senators-side-with-georgia-on-wto-issue/445990.html]
__If Russia were to join the WTO, ….__ security considerations and future sovereignty.”
**. Impact -- Repeal key to solve relations – on the brink now.**
**RT 12-26**. [“Russia urges US to repeal Cold War era legislation” -- http://rt.com/politics/russia-jackson-vanik-lavrov-679/]
__With US-Russian relations sliding….Biden urged a repeal of the law__.

**Russian relations solve every impact.**
**National Security Network, 7/1/09** (http://www.nsnetwork.org/node/1354
__**U.S. cooperation with Russia vital not just … is given a chance to contribute constructively**__


===Weaponization DA=== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**
As is well...right of self defense

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**
Cooperation for contested...responsible for space-faring nations

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span>
<span class="Underline">international cooperation is... would be more likely</span>


**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even...unacceptable to all</span>

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of...conflict ever seen</span>
===Earth Science DA=== 
**NASA is funding Earth science but the budget is tight**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">Space Travel 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">Euroconsult along with...consultant for omnis</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">(**your plan takes money from earth science program, email me for specific link)**</span>

**Earth science key to solve warming – any decrease in funding results in runaway warming**
**Haymet 7**
Decades ago, a shift...our own planet

**Warming causes extinction**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">Brandenberg 99</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">The world goes... hardy microbes survivng</span>

===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">CCP DA</span>=== 

**China is not a space challenger to the US—status quo success gives the CCP legitimacy at home.**
**Wiggin 10**
At the start of this ….(between China and the US/Russia) fast."



**Space Leadership is zero-sum and key to CCP stability**
**Johnson-Freese 04**
__China faces__ //Herculean// __challenges….__ and the role model for China’s youth.



**Nuclear war.**
**Yee 2** —
The fourth factor contributing to __…. its neighbours and the world.__

===EU DA=== 
__**The EU is hedging against US Space Policy now**__
__**Stone 11**__
__Earlier this year, …timing, and space launch, among others.__



**Power is zero sum-U.S leadership trades off with EU leadership**
__**Shelton and Holdridge 04**__-

__Both the United States …__by U.S. versus the EU.

**US and EU acting together will look like a US run operation since US is a world power – EU needs to act alone to boost their own leadership**
__**CSIS 07**__
__In the United States... control over a weak continent.__

**European global leadership necessary to arrest climate change, control global pandemics, and solve terrorism**
__**Nye 08**__**-**
__U.S. military might …evolution of European policies and power.__

===__Russia Oil DA__=== 

**Oil prices highest ever – multiple warrants**
**Hawkes 2011** (Alex Hawkes, 4/4/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/04/oil-price-two-half-year-high|__http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/04/oil-price-two-half-year-high__]] , “Oil price hits two and a half year high”)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__The oil price has hit its highest level ….__ recoverable oil in place at Sea Lion.</span>

__**Space solar power reduces dependence on oil – creates a domino effect**__
<span style="color: #191aa3;">__**Aviation Week 7** (‘NSSO Backs Space Solar Power’ [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/solar101107.xml&headline=NSSO%20Backs%20Space%20Solar%20Power%20&channel=space|__http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/solar101107.xml&headline=NSSO%20Backs%20Space%20Solar%20Power%20&channel=space__]] kdej)__</span>
__Collecting solar power in space and beaming it back to Earth …. SSP to spur its development.__

**Price Swings Kill the Russian Economy**
**CIA 6/15** (Central Intelligence Agency, The World Factbook, JUNE 15 2011, [[https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/rs.html|__https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/rs.html__]], ZBurdette)
Russia has undergone significant … infrastructure in need of large investments.

**Russian economic decline causes nuclear war**
**FILGER 2009** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” [[http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356|__http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356__]])
__In Russia__ historically, __economic health and political …__ Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.


===JWST Tradeoff DA=== 


**JWST on the chopping block now – new spending kills it – tradeoffs scare the EU**
**Red-Orbit 2/7** Redorbit Staff & Wire Reports NASA Jumping Out Of Joint ESA Mars Mission February 7, 2012 [[http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/1112469812/nasa-jumping-out-of-joint-esa-mars-mission/|__http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/1112469812/nasa-jumping-out-of-joint-esa-mars-mission/__]]
__ESA was originally concerned by NASA’s budget …. overruns from its Webb telescope project.__

**And cancelling the James Webb will undermine scientific cooperation**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Borowitz, 11** – Research Analyst and the Space Foundation, the Space Foundation has become one of the world's premier nonprofit organizations supporting space activities [July, 2011, Mariel John Borowitz, “The James Webb Space Telescope A Worthy Investment in Space Science,” [[http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf%5D|__http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf]__]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__JWST is being developed in international partnership …. **endeavors much more problematic.**__</span>

**Science coop solves extinction**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The Royal Society, 10** – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may ….__ foreign ministry and embassy staff.</span>

===__Hardening DA__=== 

__**Hardening will fail and turns launch costs**__
__**Sexton 09 –**__
__Given the disparity between …. costs and launch timelines.__

**High launch costs inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith, 10**

__Lost in the attention given …__ as well as scientific opportunities.

**Commercial space development prevents resource wars – causes extinction**
**Collins and Autino 10**
__The major source of ….__ services to the general public.

===Nanotech DA=== 

__**Nanotech is becoming cooperative – recent projects prove**__
<span style="color: #191aa3;">__**Decker et al. 11** Chapter 4 “Nanoscale Metrology and Needs for an Emerging Technology” Jennifer E. Decker and Alun G. Steele [[http://books.google.com/books?id=5owgos0Dfo4C&pg=PA78&lpg=PA78&dq=nanotechnology+international+cooperation&source=bl&ots=w9Lok-Wj90&sig=1BIXmG95gAEFTeAkb2ebEz6eBSg&hl=en&ei=HI-6TpnPBIKU2AW7q_CoBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=%22towards%20the%22&f=false|__http://books.google.com/books?id=5owgos0Dfo4C&pg=PA78&lpg=PA78&dq=nanotechnology+international+cooperation&source=bl&ots=w9Lok-Wj90&sig=1BIXmG95gAEFTeAkb2ebEz6eBSg&hl=en&ei=HI-6TpnPBIKU2AW7q_CoBw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=%22towards%20the%22&f=false__]]__</span>
__Communication and cooperation amongst very different areas of science and technology .... beworking increasingly closer together.__

**Unilateral nanotech like the plan causes and arms race and insures extinction – only international cooperation can solve**
**Treder And Phoenix, 8** Mike , Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, __“The Need for International Control” [[http://www.crnano.org/int_control.htm|__http://www.crnano.org/int_control.htm__]]__
__Overview: International administration appears to be necessary.... analogous to the International Atomic Energy Agency.__


====2NC Uniqueness CP==== 

__**Text: The United States federal government should propose to the International Atomic Energy Agency that international nanofactories be built as specified by the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology. The International Atomic Energy Agency should build these nanofactories and require mutual inspection of all nations’ nanofactories and nanotechnology. The United States federal government should not create any nanotechnology without first consulting the International Atomic Energy Agency.**__

__**CP solves all of the inevitability claims, BUT the plan destroys the CP. Competition and US hegemonic pursuit of dominance assures a Nano-Race and turns the entire aff.**__
__**Vandermolen, 6** Thomas D., BS, Louisiana Tech University; MA, Naval War College), is officer in charge, Maritime Science and Technology Center, Yokosuka, Japan. He was previously assigned as a student at the Naval War College, Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island. [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html|__http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html__]]__
__The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology.... important now than in previous times of scientific development.”41__

===Heg. DA=== 
**The Affirmative’s criticism of American foreign policy is dangerous – it focuses only on the negatives and contributes to the eventual collapse of U.S. primacy**
**__Kagan, 98__**
__Those contribiting to...next american humbling__
**The result is wars around globe— The affirmative is utterly incapable of describing or even comprehending the horrors of a world without active American engagement. Even if American hegemony has flaws, any alternative would comparatively be infinitely worse. Turns their free speech arguments.**
**__Rosen, 3__**
__Rather than wrestle...much more attractive__

==Kritiks== 
===Security K=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Disorder and insecurity are inevitable but efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions the possibility of our utter annhiliation. Instead seeking this impossible fantasy where we are able to suppress and control conflict—the alternative is to affirm difference. This will allow us the break out of the infinite cycle of violence that created their harms in the first place</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 17.33px;">Der Derian 98</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 17.33px;">No other concept...a fearful sameness</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">The world is inherently relativistic—competing value systems guarantee wars between states. When the mission of statehood goes beyond protection of the state to protection of civilization it escalates warfare by framing others as outside the liberal order</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Rasch '03</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">In the past...the civilized world</span>



===Gov K=== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#htmldiff2]]</span>=== 
**1. The government intervention and reassertion of control demostrated by the state action of the affirmative is immoral because it destroys freedom, Freedom can only exist in a world absent government.**
**Waligorski 90**
**Freedom is a.... means to operationalize one's freedom**

**2. The Role of the Ballot is to ensure human liberty**
**Petro 74**
**However, one may still.... resisted with undying spirit**

**3.Surrendering ourselves to the state justifies every possble impact scenario and makes all of the aff's impacts inevitable**
**__Beres, 94__**
This, then, is an altogether different …. __of modern humankind__
**Alt: Thus; We advocate complete rejection of all government and full embracement of free market**






==Counter plans:== 
===ITAR:=== 
<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">**Text:** The United States Federal Government should review and revise the USML with a focus on determining what requires protection, update and re-focus export controls, and shorten licensing processes under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations Restrictions </span>
**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">We are at a critical turning point in export policy - ITAR isolates the US from any form of international cooperation and commerce destroying any chance of US industrial or innovative leadership – reform is necessary to solve for a sustainable future</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px;">Abbey and Lane 9</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px;">in 2005 we...doing so quickly</span>
===**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 16px;">Refugee:</span>**=== 
**Text:** The United States federal government should create refuges designed to ensure survival through extinction events.

**The CP solves – building a refuge protects humanity from extinction threats without going to space – we have the technology now**
**Hanson 7-**associate professor of economics at GMU, research associate at the Future of Humanity Institute of Oxford University, PhD in Social Science (August 2007, Robin, “Catastrophe, Social Collapse, and Human Extinction”, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://hanson.gmu.edu/collapse.pdf]]</span>)
If we value...simple sustainable lifestyle
=== === 
===Executive Order:=== 


**Text:** The President of the United States should send a space exploration mission staffed entirely by females

<span class="Underline">**The presidency is the best starting point for directing space policy – it is the central institution responsible for the plan -- congressional action doesn’t solve.** </span>
**Goldman, 92**
Although the constituion...itself politically and institutionally.

===Executive Order 2=== 
<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Text: The President of the United States Federal Government should reinstate and fully fund NASA’s Jupiter Icy Moons Orbiter (JIMO).</span>
<span class="Underline">**The presidency is the best starting point for directing space policy – it is the central institution responsible for the plan -- congressional action doesn’t solve.**</span>
**Goldman, 92**
Although the constituion...itself politically and institutionally.
===Euclid CP=== 

**Text**: The European Space Agency should fully fund the construction and development of the Euclid Telescope.
**Euclid solves both of their scenarios –microlensing discovers dark energy and exoplanets**
**Hsu, ’09**
Dark enrgy may not...cut for launch.


===Gates CP=== 
**Text:** The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation should fully fund the James Webb Telescope

**The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has billions and already funds multiple education initiatives**
**CBSNews, 10**
Some 7000 miles...form of vaccination.







===Privatization CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should grant a 25 year tax exemption to the first private entity that develops a lunar solar power system on the earth’s moon**

**Twenty five year tax exemption solves innovation and is the BEST way to spur private development.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__**Hudgins 2004**__</span>
Or consider a radical ….__truly space-faring civilization.__




**Private sector can solve lunar missions -- NASA not key.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__**David 5**__</span>
__**A newly released study …**__ was funded by LEC.




===CoC CP=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Text**: The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including **BMDs.** The United States federal government should create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States federal government should provide a declaration that the US will guarantee the continued flow of information to any country whose satellite is destroyed by an ASAT.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Code of conduct solves conflict --- creates cooperation</span>**
**Krepon 8**
Johnson -freese makes... violate treaty provision

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Communication transfer plank solves --- it removes any advantages to attacks</span>**
**Shachtman 8**
The first step....war in space

===Russia CP 1=== 
**Text: The government of the Russian Federation should deploy space based solar powered satellites**

**Russia’s space program is excellent—it’s comparable to the US**
**HARVEY 2007**
Despite all that, …Russian space exploration.

===Russia CP 2=== 
Text: **The government of the Russian Federation should destroy space debris with ground based lasers**

Russia's space program is excellent-it's comparable to the US
HARVEY 2007
Despite all that,.... Russian space exploration.

===Draft CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should reinstitute the military draft**

**THE DRAFT IS THE ONLY WAY TO MAINTAIN U.S. HEGEMONY–THE ALTERNATIVE IS MILITARY COLLAPSE**
**CARTER AND GLASTRIS 2005**
But there's a deeper problem…. will to do so again?

===EU CP=== 
**Plan: The European Space Agency should implement a space based infared sensor in a venus-like orbit for the purpose of asteroid detection**

**Counterplan solves the case**
**Brauer and Monte 05**
The above described scenario suggests …components to serve defence requirements.

===STEM CP=== 

**The United States federal government should provide employment-based visas to graduates who earn a Masters or PhD degree from an accredited U.S. university in a science, technology, engineering or math field of study.**


__**Uncertain path**__ **to LPR deters foreign students from coming to the US**
**Johnson 09**
All prudent steps must be ….. recognize anachronistic immigrant-nonimmigrantdistinctions.

**STEM plank solves science leadership and innovation**
**Zucker & Darby 07** – Professor of Sociology & Public Policy @ UCLA & Professor of Money and Financial Markets @ UCLA [Lynne G. Zucker & Michael R. Darby, “STAR SCIENTISTS, INNOVATION AND REGIONAL AND NATIONAL IMMIGRATION,” NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES, Working Paper 13547, October 2007
These results are only a first step in demonstrating that __the **very best and brightest scientists** ….__ locations of residence and/or enter new scientific fields

===China Dialogue=== 
**The United States federal government should engage in multilateral dialogue about space security with China and promise full transparency**

**A strategic dialogue with China solves and would set up a framework for discussion over other issues—empirically proven**
**Manzo 08**
__A strategic dialogue between …. find threatening and destabilizing.__

===__Hardening Pic__=== 
__**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space for the purpose of developing a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, and the launching of small satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**__

===Earth-Monitoring CP=== 

**CP Text: The United States Federal Government should increase the number of earth-monitoring satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere and increasing funding for GEOSS**.


**Earth-Monitoring Satellites solve: provide geospatial data and radar imaging, monitor environmental change, and verify international treaties**
**ENS**, 1/4/**01**, Environment News Service, is an environmental news agency which provides a press release distribution service, World-Wire in addition to original stories, “Europe to Launch New Earth Monitoring Satellites”, http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/jan2001/2001-01-04-03.html
__A powerful new European weather satellite …__be managed by the Kenya Meteorological Department.

===Smart Grid CP=== 

**The United States Federal Government should implement Smart Grids to prevent blackout.**

**Smart grids prevent large blackout through isolation.**
Massoud __**Amin and**__, professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of Minnesota, Phillip F. __**Schewe 8**__, chief science writer at the American Institute of Physics, “Preventing Blackouts: Building a Smarter Power Grid”, August 13, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=preventing-blackouts-power-grid&page=5

__A self-healing smart grid …. would again start to self-optimize.__


===Perception CP=== 

The United States federal government should announce it has substantially increased its deployment of nanosatellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System.

**Solves the aff- all of their internal links are based off of the perception of US satellite defense- their 1AC authors concede**
<span style="color: #191aa3;">**Burke 2006** (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b|__https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b__]])</span>
Although a major attack on the US is not likely,....to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces.


===Ocean Sequestration=== 


.**The United States federal government should implement a policy requiring the dumping of all agricultural waste into the deep ocean.**

**Agricultural waste dumping solves warming by permanently sequestering carbon**
__**Fountain, Feb. 2, 2009**__ [Nick, Observatory Staff Writer. //A Carbon Keeper: Crop Waste Sunk to the Ocean Deep//; Accessed online: [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/03/science/earth/03obcrops.html?ref=science%5D|__**http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/03/science/earth/03obcrops.html?ref=science****]**__]]
__A leading idea to fight global__ climate change __is to permanently .....could reduce the global annual accumulation of CO2 by 15 percent.__

===__Nanosat. Pic__=== 
**The United States Federal Government should substantially increase the multipurpose NanoMissile system.**

===**SPS CP**=== 
**The United States Federal Government should develop and deploy space based solar power beyond the earth’s mesosphere and mandate human colonization of the moon.**


**SPS is key to colonization**
**Snead 09**(James M., President of Spacefaring Institute LLC, senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, 4/4/09, [[%22http://www.thespacere|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1]])

Planning and __executing a rational US energy policy ….broad-based spacefaring future__. This is, indeed, a win-win opportunity that we cannot afford to miss.



**SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, make them more survivable and reconstitute lost assets rapidly**
**Ramos 2k** – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]])

**Space** In addition to the terrestrial implications of solar power satellites ….__repositioning to meet warfighter requirements__.26

===China First Strike CP=== 
**The United States Federal Government should not preemptively strike China.**

===**Nuke Stockpile**=== 
**The United States federal government should resume nuclear tests for the purposes of stockpile certification.**

**Lack of testing is fatal to our deterrent --- the CP solves nuclear deterrence.**
**Pfaltzgraff and Cooper 09** [Dr. Robert L. **Pfaltzgraff and** Henry F. **Cooper et al**, July **2009**. Professor of International Security Studies @ Tufts University, Founder and President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Former Director of the Defense Strategic Initiative (SDI); Former U.S. Representative to the Defense and Space Talks. “U.S. Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century Getting it Right,” Nuclear Deterrent Working Group, http://204.96.138.161/upload/wysiwyg/center%20publication%20pdfs/NDWG-%20Getting%20It%20Right.pdf]
__Permitted underground nuclear testing is ....**permanent ban on such testing would be fatal for the U.S. deterrent**.__

===__Colonization CP__=== 
**The United States federal government should create a robotic outpost and mandate human colonization of the earth’s moon** **including but not limited to the South Pole.**

===**OTEC CP**=== 

**The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States.**


__**The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming**__
__**Galbraith, 09** (4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, [[%22http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/ener|http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html]]//__//)//
//[[%22http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/lockheed_martin_corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org%22%20%5Co%20%22More%20information%20ab|LOCKHEED MARTIN]] is best known …. __stop in calm conditions.__



===Diversity Forums=== 

**Our counter advocacy is to create a forum in which to deconstruct the conception of the foreigner in terms of “alien” through a process of of conscientization to break through the constructions of whiteness around us so we can grow epistemologically and become educated to liberate oppressed people.**

**Discussion forums solve best- we should encourage community-wide forums to discuss their advocacy**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]

Interjecting the personalized into debate rounds …. __**drawbacks to personalizing debate**__, however, __**are**__, in my opinion, __**enormous**__.

**Three net benefits-**
__**Alliance splitting**__**- personalizing debate risks splitting alliances and fracturing solutions, causing backlash and resistance:**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]
__**The purpose of this essay is to outline ….h frustrations, anxiety, resistance and backlash.**__

__**Structural solutions**__**- personalized debating blocks structural solutions- our counter advocacy solves better**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]
To be sure, __**many have embraced the idea … within the debate community.**__



**Debate rounds are bad forums- lack of time, moving advocacy target, and they deflect from community-wide discussions- turns the case**
**Zompetti ’04** [Joe, Assistant Professor, School of Communication, Illinois State
University, “Contemporary Argumentation and Debate”]

__**The second major problem with this turn in contemporary policy debate… important factors such as resource disparity.**__

===__**ASEAN CP**__=== 

**The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, in cooperation with the United States federal government, the governments of North and South Korea, China, and Japan should establish a charter of cooperation****.**


===LOST CP=== 

<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">**The United States federal government should ratify the Law of the Sea Treaty.**</span>

<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">**LOST key to Naval power- builds coalitions and solves the aff**</span>

<span style="color: #2d2d2d;">**BYM News 2007**</span> [11-1, BYM Marine and Maritime News, “Ocean Commission Initiative applauds Senate support for Law of the Sea Convention” <span style="color: #1c6ccf;">[[http://www.bymnews.com/news/newsDetails.php?id=17437%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.bymnews.com/news/newsDetails.php?id=17437]]</span>]
“U.S. participation in __the Law of the Sea Convention…__U.S. participation in the Law of the Sea.


===OTEC CP=== 

**The United States federal government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States**




**The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming**
**Galbraith, 09** (4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html|__http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html__]])
[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/lockheed_martin_corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org%22%20%5Co%20%22More%20information%20about%20Lockheed%20Martin|LOCKHEED MARTIN]] is best known for building stealth fighters, … __which stop in calm conditions.__


===Army CP=== 

**The United States federal government should increase the size of its Army to 600,000.**

**Increasing ground forces solves their terminal impact**
**Peters, 06** (Ralph, former Army officer, “The Counterrevolution in Military Affairs,” The Weekly Standard, 2/6, http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/006/649qrsob.asp) 
REVOLUTIONS NOTORIOUSLY IMPRISON THEIR MOST committed … strategic impact that staggers governments.

Beginning with the United States federal government, the People’s Republic of China should establish a Space-Solar Energy Consortium in order to cooperatively research, develop, and produce energy from outer space. Requisite funding and enforcement provided by the People’s Republic of China. The United States should accept as an expression of the National Space Policy.


===China CP=== 

**The People’s Republic of China should substantially increase its space based efforts to survey near earth objects.** 



**China on the cutting edge of asteroid mapping now – big push proves they perceive it as essential to their soft power in space**
**Stone 08** (Richard, Science journalist specializing in asteroids, “Near-Earth Objects: Preparing for Doomsday”, Signs of the Time, 3-7-**08**, [[http://www.fr.sott.net/articles/show/150527-NEAR-EARTH-OBJECTS-Preparing-for-Doomsday]] Accessed 9/29/11.)

TIESHAN TEMPLE NATIONAL FOREST, CHINA--In the control room of XuYi Observatory, __…they scored their NEO.__


===DoD Asteroid CP=== 

**The Department of Defense should substantially increase its space based efforts to survey near earth objects. The National Science Foundation should grant the Department of Defense use of the Arecibo Observatory for this purpose.** 

**DOD action is key to solve for space**
**Urias ‘96**
(et al Maj. Gen. John M. Urias, Program Executive Officer, Air and Missile Defense – Air Force 2025 Report – 
http://csat.au.af.mil/2025/volume3/vol3ch16.pdf)
__**Why should the DOD take an active interest in the planetary defense issue?**__ ….__**DOD have the experience and capability to even attempt such an effort.**__ 

**Congressional support for DOD action and it avoids the links**
**Johnson-Freese 2004** ([[http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=Joan+Johnson-Freese%22%20%5Co%20%22View%20content%20where%20Author%20is%20Joan%20Johnson-Freese|Joan Johnson-Freese]],Chair, Department of National Security Decision Making, Naval War College. Former Chair, Department of Transnational Studies, Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, “Congress and Space Policy,” [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/k111n1/%22%20%5Co%20%22Link%20to%20the%20Book%20Series%20of%20this%20Chapter|Space Regulations Library Series]], 2004, Volume 2, Part Two, 79-103,<span style="color: #a9a9a9;"> <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/k3g1u768352p2511/]]</span></span>)
__Part of the past pattern of congressional deference to the DOD…__ fired its leadership in response to congressional concern over the carry-forward accounts.7

===SPS-China Cooperation=== 

Beginning with the United States federal government, the People’s Republic of China should establish a Space-Solar Energy Consortium in order to cooperatively research, develop, and produce energy from outer space. Requisite funding and enforcement provided by the People’s Republic of China. The United States should accept as an expression of the National Space Policy.

==**Inherency**== 


__**1) ORS works now – solves their aff**__
__**Defense Systems 11/03/**11 Terry Costlow (contributing editor) Modularity in satellite design is key to quick response Nov 03, 2011 http://defensesystems.com/articles/2011/11/15/c4isr-1-operationally-responsive-space-initiatives.aspx__
__The Defense Department's efforts … redundant testing for every step,” Regan said.__

__**SBSS just happened – solves your aff**__
__**GovWin 1/4** The GovWin News team follows the latest developments for GovWin from Deltek, the network that helps government contractors win new business every day. GovWin Recon is the team’s daily newsletter highlighting federal government contracting news and analysis from around the GovCon world. Get it delivered to your inbox, free! To contact the team or suggest an item for the Recon, send mail to tips@govwin.com. GovWin Recon: Jan. 4, 2012: Panetta to Present Budget Strategy; DOD Cannot Grant Highest LEED Certifications; FAC 2005-55 Added 01/04/2012 DOD Contract Announcements Contract Announcements for January 3, 2012 [Defense.gov] – http://govwin.com/govwin-news_blog/govwin-recon-jan-4-2012/353695__
__Raytheon won Air Force awards …Space Based Space Surveillance Block 10 System.__



=**NEG STRATS:**= 
==**Wake Forrest**== 
===Round 1: SPS (Mountain brook SJ)=== 
1NC: -Topicality: Increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR CP]]
2NC: ITAR. weaponization,case
1NR: Security K, Politics
2NR: Security K

===Round 3: James Webb ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Johns Creek (GA) - Jake Davis & Chelsea Thorpe|Johns Creek TD]])=== 
1NC: Topicality: Exploration
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Euclid%20CP|Euclid CP]]
2NC: Euclid. case,
1NR: Politics
2NR: Euclid CP, Politics

===Round 5: Feminism K ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Johns Creek (GA) - Josh Foretich & Olivia Song|Johns Creek FS]])=== 
1NC: [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Heg.%20DA|Heg. DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Gov%20K|Gov. K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Executive%20Order:|XO CP]]
-T-Exploration
-Frame Work
2NC: XO CP, FW, and case
1NR: Politics
2NR: XO CP, Politics, FW

===Octas: Moon Colonization (Broad Run CS)=== 
1NC: Topicality-Increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Refugee:|Refugee CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
2NC: Refugee CP, case
1NR: Politics
2NR: Refugee CP, Politics

===Quarters: Brilliant Pebbles, Space mil. ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Mountain Brook (AL) - Chamblee Shufflebarger & Mary Nix Roberson|Mountain Brook SN]])=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-CoC%20CP|CoC CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
2NC: Weaponization, CoC, case
1NR: Theory, Politics
2NR: CoC and politics

===Semis Wake Forrest: SPS ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Alpharetta (GA) - Chris Moxley & Naveena Karusala|Alpharetta MK]])=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
2NC: Weaponization, ITAR, case
1NR: Politics
2NR: Weaponization, ITAR, Politics

===Finals Wake Forrest: James Webb (Johns Creek SS)=== 
1NC: T-OSPEC
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Gates%20CP|Gates CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Euclid%20CP|Euclid CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Earth%20Science%20DA|Earth Science Trade off DA]]
2NC: CP's, Trade off, case,
1NR: Theory, OSPEC, Politics
2NR:Trade off, Politics, Gates CP

==Chattahooche== 
===Round 2 Prelim: SPS (MBA BS)=== 
1NC- T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Russia%20CP%201|Russia CP]]
2NC- Weaponization, CP, Case
1NR- Politics
2NR: Politics
===Round 3 Prelim: SPS ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Alpharetta (GA) - Alan Hesu & Aditya Sood|Alpharetta HS]])=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR CP]]
2NC- Case, ITAR, Weaponization
1NR-Condo good, Politics
2NR- ITAR, Politics, Condo not a voter
===Semis: SPS (MBA BR)=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-SKFTA|SKFTA DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Russia%20CP%201|Russia CP]]
2NC- Case, CP, Weaponization
1NR: Agent CP theory, Politics
2NR: Russia CP, Politics

==Houston== 
===Round 1: SPS (Alpharetta LS)=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-China%20Bashing|China Bashing DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR CP]]
2NC: ITAR, Weaponization, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: ITAR, Weaponization

===Round 3: LSP ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Alpharetta (GA) - Priyanka Ghosh & Ji-Yeon Hyun|Alpharetta HG]])=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Treasury%20Report|Treasury Report DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Privatization%20CP|Privatization CP]]
2NC: CP, Weaponization DA, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: Privatization with politics

===Round 5: Space Debris (Columbus JG)=== 
1NC: T-increase, T-beyond
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Treasury%20Report|Treasury Report DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Russia%20CP%202|Russia CP]]
2NC: Russia CP, case, Weaponization DA
1NR: Theory, T-increase, Treasury Report
2NR: Russia CP, Politics, International Fiat Theory.

==Michigan== 
===Round 3: Lunar Mission/Mining (Portage HH)=== 
1NC: T-beyond
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Payroll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-CCP%20DA|CCP DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Draft%20CP|Draft CP]]
2NC: Draft CP, Weaponization, Case
1NR: Topicality, Politics
2NR: Topicality

===Round 5: Asteroid Detection (West Bloomington PS)=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Payroll taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-EU%20DA|EU DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-EU%20CP|EU CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Refugee:|Refugee CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-Heg. Bad
2NC: EU CP, EU DA, Case,
1NR: Security, Politics
2NR: Security K

===Round 7: James Webb (Groves FM)=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Earth%20Science%20DA|Earth Science DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Payroll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Gates%20CP|Gates CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-STEM%20CP|Stem CP]]
-Heg. Bad
2NC: Stem CP and Case
1NR: Security K and Politics
2NR: Security K

==Glenbrooks== 
===Round 1: Nanosats. ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Chattahoochee (GA) - Amar Adam & Sujay Peramanu|Chattahooche PA]])=== 
1NC: T-exploration/development needs humans
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Draft%20CP|Draft CP]] combined with [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-China%20Dialogue|China Dialogue CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-CCP%20DA|CCP DA]] on case
2NC: Case, CP, weaponization
1NR: China advantage, Politics
2NR: CP and politics and CCP


===Round 5: ORS ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Bronx Science (NY) - Dale Li & Lucy Shen|Bronx Science SL]])=== 
1NC: T-increase
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Hardening%20Pic|Hardening PIC]] with [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Hardening%20DA|Hardening DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-CCP%20DA|CCP DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-Heg. Bad
2NC: Weaponization, Case, Heg. Bad
1NR: Politics and Hardening CP/DA
2NR: Politics DA, Heg. Bad

==Lexington== 
===Round 1: DSCVR (NFA CS)=== 
1NC: T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Earth-Monitoring%20CP|Earth Monitoring]]+[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Smart%20Grid%20CP|Smart Grid CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-CCP%20DA|CCP DA]]
2NC: Case and CCP DA
1NR: Topicality and Politics
2NR: T-Human

===Round 4: Nanotech. ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Kinkaid (TX) - Ben Mitchell & Zach Rosenthal - Affirmative|Kinkaid MR]])=== 
1NC: T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Earth-Monitoring%20CP|Earth Monitoring CP]] + [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Perception%20CP|Perception CP]]+[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Ocean%20Sequestration|Ocean Sequestration CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Nanotech%20DA|Nanotech DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-Heg. Bad
-Ice age/Agriculture
2NC: Case, Nanotech DA, [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Nanotech%20DA-2NC%20Uniqueness%20CP|2NC UQ CP for Nanotech DA]]
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

===Round 5: Constellation ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Westminster (GA) - Rahul Patel & James Pavur|Westminster PP]])=== 
1NC:
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-CCP%20DA|CCP DA]]
2NC: CP, CCP DA, Heg. advantage
1NR: Security K, Smart Power advantage
2NR: Security K

==Novice State== 
===Round 2: Nanosats. (Chattahooche IM)=== 
1NC:
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Inherency|Inherency]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Nanosat.%20Pic|-Nanosat PIC]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
2NC: Case, CP
1NR: Weaponization DA, Inherency
2NR: CP, Wep., Inherency

===Round 3: Space Guard, SSA (Milton GL)=== 
1NC:
-T-human
-SSA Spec.
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
2NC: Case, SSA spec.
1NR: T-human, Politics
2NR: T-human

===Round 5: LSP (Alpharetta MW)=== 
1NC:
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-SPS%20CP|-SPS CP]]
-Heg. Bad
2NC: Case, Heg. Bad
1NR: CP. Politics
2NR: CP, Politics

===Octas: SPS (Chattahooche SW)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Draft%20CP|Draft CP]] + [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-China%20First%20Strike%20CP|First Strike CP]]+ [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Ocean%20Sequestration|Ocean Sequestration]]
-Co2 key to ag.
2NC: Wep. DA, Case, Warming Turn
1NR: First strike plank, Politics
2NR: Politics


===Quarters: SPS (Westminster SF)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Payroll|Pay Roll Taxes DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-China%20First%20Strike%20CP|First Strike CP]] +[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Nuke%20Stockpile| Nuclear Stockpile CP]]+ [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR]]
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: CP, Politics

===Finals: LSP ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Alpharetta (GA) - Alan Hesu & Aditya Sood|Alpharetta HS]])=== 
1NC:
-T-space is the area in between the planets
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Colonization%20CP|Colonization CP]] +[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-STEM%20CP|Stem CP]] (with just zucker and darby evidence)
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-JWST%20Tradeoff%20DA|-JWST Tradeoff DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Russia%20Oil%20DA|Russia Oil DA]]
-Heg. Bad
2NC: CP, Heg turns, Case
1NR: Russia Oil DA
2NR: CP, Oil DA

==Harvard== 
===Round 2: SPS ([[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Jackson%20Vanick|Lexington AD]])=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR]] + [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-OTEC%20CP|OTEC CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Jackson%20Vanick|Jackson Vanick]]
2NC: ITAR plank, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: CP, Politics

===Round 3: JIMO (Natrona County MM)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Jackson%20Vanick|Jackson Vanick]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR]] + [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Refugee:|Refugee CP]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Executive%20Order%202|XO CP]]
2NC: ITAR/Refugee CP, Case, Politics
1NR: XO CP, T-human
2NR: XO CP, Politics

===Round 6: MDA (Reservoir BT)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-T-of space
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Jackson%20Vanick|Jackson Vanick]]
-LOST CP + ASEAN CP
2NC: CP, Case, Politics
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human


===Quarters: SPS (Lexington CW)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Kritiks-Security%20K|Security K]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Politics:-Jackson%20Vanick|Jackson Vanick]]
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-STEM%20CP|Stem CP]] (with just zucker and darby evidence) + OTEC + Increase army to 600,000
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Disadvantages:-Weaponization%20DA|Weaponization DA]]
2NC: Wep., CP, Case
1NR: Politics
2NR: CP, Politics

===**Semis: Racism in Debate, Hip-Hop Performance (Brooklyn Tech. DC)**=== 
1NC:
-FW
-T-Beyond
-Civil Disobedience
-Diversity Forums
-Heg. DA
2NC: FW, Heg. DA
1NR: Topicality and civil Disobedience
2NR: T-beyond

==Woodward-Novice Nationals== 
===Round 1: SPS-China Cooperation (Dallas Jesuit BO)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-T-it's
-Security K
-China do the Plan and Cooperate with US (
: Beginning with the United States federal government, the People’s Republic of China should establish a Space-Solar Energy Consortium in order to cooperatively research, develop, and produce energy from outer space. Requisite funding and enforcement provided by the People’s Republic of China. The United States should accept as an expression of the National Space Policy.)
-JWST Tradeoff DA
-Jackson Vanik DA
2NC: CP, T-its, Case
1NR: JWST
2NR: CP, JWST DA


===Round 4: SPS (Westminster GY)=== 
1NC:
-T-Human
-Security K
-[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-China%20First%20Strike%20CP|First Strike CP]] +[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-Nuke%20Stockpile| Nuclear Stockpile CP]]+ [[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Pace Academy (GA) - Tanner Lewis & Clyde Shepherd#Negative-Counter%20plans:-ITAR:|ITAR]]
-JWST DA
-Jackson Vanik DA
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: JWST DA
2NR: CP, JWST DA

===Round 5: Asteroid Detection (Harker KM)=== 
1NC:
-ASPEC
-T-Human
-Security K
-DOD do the Plan
-China Do the plan
-JWST Tradeoff DA
-Jackson Vanik DA
2NC: DOD CP, Case
1NR: JWST DA
2NR: CP, JWST DA
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]