==[[toc]]== 
Email [[mailto:holmes.hampton10@gmail.com|holmes.hampton10@gmail.com]] for any question or additional cites.
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Environmental Monitoring</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Environmental Monitoring-Contention One—(Inner)Space Colonization]]Contention One—(Inner)Space Colonization</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What is space? What is its purpose? Who owns it?</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In a globalized world, the way we answer these questions effects and shape the way we think about politics in general. Space is both a blank canvas and a mirror—how we theorize space can aid or abet our thinking about sovereignty, cooperation, and violence</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Stuart 2009</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jill, Dr . Jill Stuart is LSE Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “Unbundling Sovereignty, Territory, and the State in Outer Space”, from //Securing Outer Space,// edited by Bormann and Sheehan]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As well as considering ongoing events in outer </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">perhaps further validating some approaches and undermining others).</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Sadly, the radical potential to think differently about space and sovereignty has been hijacked by militarization. This is not just a militarization of OUTER space—it is also a militarization of our INNER space. Status quo politics and rhetoric is an attempt to militarize both space and the American psyche in order to maintain imperial dominance. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Orr 04, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackie Orr, from the department f sociology at Syracuse University, “The Militarization of Inner Space,” Critical Sociology, March 2004, volume 2, issue 30, pg. 451-481.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The editorial warns: </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">"This war against</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">the fight for less terrorizing future spaces. 10 </span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This militarized mindset is the cause of genocidal violence—a politics based in bounded communities cannot result in anything but atrocities—it can only solve wars between like-minded people</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Archibugi 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (2008, Daniele, “The Global Commonwealth of Citizens: Toward Cosmopolitan Democracy” Princeton University Press, Chapter 2 p. 41-43 SG)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">I previously cited Karl Popper’s definition according to </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">a given demo cratic community is being established.</span>


<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, moreover, this psychological emphasis on the nation and the individual community first can no longer solve problems in the world. Every existential threat humanity faces—war, terrorism, proliferation, population growth and total environmental collapse—can only be dealt with via true international cooperation. The psyche of the status quo makes all of these impacts inevitable</span>
<span class="SmallTextChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smith, 2003</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University. Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership, p. 166-169.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is certainly important to oppose such evolutionary </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">William Connolly, and Jurgen Habermas all envision.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Environmental Monitoring-The Plan]]The Plan</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">United States federal government should fund, develop, and deploy a network of cooperative, internationally accessible environmental monitoring satellites. We’ll clarify.</span>**
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Environmental Monitoring-Contention Two—Cosmopolitanism]]Contention Two—Cosmopolitanism</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cooperative science projects like the plan make global cosmopolitanism an international necessity—the plan causes a shift in our collective mentalities.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Stuart 2009</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jill, Dr . Jill Stuart is LSE Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “Unbundling Sovereignty, Territory, and the State in Outer Space”, from //Securing Outer Space,// edited by Bormann and Sheehan]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Regime theory provides a manner of analysing sovereignty </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">meaning "order" and "universe" .</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Concentrating on ENVIRONMENTAL problems in space encourages peaceful, cooperative action as opposed to militarization</span>**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moltz, 08 [</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">James Clay</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ,Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Politics of Space Security]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What emerges from this revie\v of </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">debris mitigation, as will be discussed later.)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Specifically, environmental monitoring satellites are uniquely key to globalization and cooperation</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Dudley 98 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Marilyn Dudley-Rowley, “The Globalization of Space”, [[http://pweb.jps.net/~gangale/opsa/GlobalizationOfSpace/PacSoc.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The American space program has, for years</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">on the construction of a transnational space organization</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Weaponization is NOT inevitable, but US action is key—we need to take the first step towards international institutionalism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moltz, 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [James Clay ,Associate Professor and Academic Associate for Security Studies, , Politics of Space Security]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A second and sharply contrasting perspective, developed </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">that have both resources and political clout."c8</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, now is key—we are at a tipping point. Either you vote aff to endorse a critical cosmopolitanism or you cede control of outer space to the neo-cons.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dickens and Ormrod 07 – Professors at the University of Essex</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Peter and James, August 2007, “Outer Space and Internal Nature: Towards a Sociology of the University” Sociology volume 41 number 4)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This article has explored some of the past </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of outer space are contested in pivotal times.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Environmental Monitoring-Contention Three—Reclaiming Psychological Space]]Contention Three—Reclaiming Psychological Space</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Space is an opportunity—how we understand space politics can change the way we view domestic politics, and vice versa. Cooperative Space exploration isn’t enough—it needs to be combined with a methodological emphasis on terrestrial cosmopolitanism</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Stuart 2009</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jill, Dr . Jill Stuart is LSE Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “Unbundling Sovereignty, Territory, and the State in Outer Space”, from //Securing Outer Space,// edited by Bormann and Sheehan]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Summary and conclusions Regime theory and cosmopolitan sovereignty </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND </span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the complex and unique politics of outer space.</span></span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means that the role of the ballot is to investigate methodology and psyche before material or empirical arguments. Rejecting methodological nationalism creates a new research agenda that is critical to understand the world and advance cosmopolitanism.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beck and Sznaider, 2006</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ulrich and Natan,. Professor of sociology at Munich's Ludwig-Maximilian University and the London School of Economics; and professor of sociology at the Academic College of Tel-Aviv-Yaffo, Israel. “Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda,” The British Journal of Sociology 57.1, Wiley InterSciences.]</span>

<span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Methodological nationalism takes</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">to be theoretically and empirically researched and elaborated</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This means we need to mix our focus between critical theory and problem-solving --- Only this focus on method generates social learning that avoids error replication and changes international politics.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Widmaier, 2004</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Wesley W.. Department of Political Science, St. Joseph’s University. “Theory as a Factor and the Theorist as an Actor: The ‘‘Pragmatist Constructivist’’ Lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith,” International Studies Review 6.3,]</span>

<span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">This realignment of debate</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">also</span> <span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">would contribute to </span>
<span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**AND** </span>
<span class="Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**as actors in****international politics**</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Edwards 1990).</span>
==Light Pollution== 
===Plan=== 
**United States Federal Government should mandate that urban, offshore drilling, and fishing vessel light fixtures be equipped with full-cutoff shielding for all artificial lights combined with a hard limit of 20 candle-feet.**

===**Contention One: Amateur Astronomy**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">People throughout history have used the stars to describe relationships to their environment to give it meaning, light pollution causes us to lose half the knowledge of the universe </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ashraf 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cameran Hooshang, “LIGHT POLLUTION: PROBLEM AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE” A Thesis Presented to the Faculty of California State University, Fullerton In Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Master of Arts in Geography. [Online] heliographic.net/lpthesis/ashraf.thesis.full.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">That </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the stars have played...</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">in human culture.</span>__


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our turbulent encounter with the dark sky forces us to realize our position as single threads in “the fabric of the world”—one that reaches beyond our own grasp, physicality, and assertions. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mazis </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">- Professor of Philosophy and Humanities @ Penn State </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">99</span> (Glen, “Chaos Theory and Merleau-Ponty's Ontology: Beyond the Dead Father's Paralysis toward a Dynamic and Fragile Materiality” [[http://www.glenmazis.com/images/Merleau-Ponty_and_Chaos_Theory.doc]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">The reversibility of this moment...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">of its unfolding.</span>


===**Contention Two: Life**=== 
**Light pollution decimates life- First is scope:**

**Light pollution kills billions of plants and animals each year, including turtles, birds and frogs**
**Chepesiuk 2009**
(Ron. Missing the Dark: Health Effects of Light Pollution. Environ Health Perspect. 2009 January; 117(1): A20–A27. [[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2627884/]])

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The ecologic effects ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">of many animals</span>__**


**We’ll isolate two specific warrants**

**1. Light pollution harms fragile day and night cycles of most organisms, threatening biodiversity**
**Holker et al – 2010** (Franz Holker1, Christian Wolter1, Elizabeth K. Perkin1,2 and Klement Tockner1,2 {1 Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mu¨ ggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, Germany 2 Institute of Biology, Freie Universita¨ t Berlin, 14195 Berlin, Germany} “Light pollution as a biodiversity threat,” Trends in Ecology and Evolution, Vol.25 No.12)

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Most organisms,</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">including ...</span>and strategic planning



**2. Light pollution disrupts feeding, growth, reproduction and migration.**
**Gallaway 2010**
(Terrel, Professor of Economics @ Missouri State, “On Light Pollution, Passive Pleasures, and the Instrumental Value of Beauty”, //Journal of Economic Issues//, Vol. 44 No. 1)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">F. J. Verheijen (1985, 1) suggests ...</span>such as cars and predators.



**And now for some Impact framing:**
**Vote aff to embrace an ethic that values more than humanity.**
**Weston 09** (Anthony, “The incompleat eco-philosopher p. 11-20, [[http://esotericonline.net/docs/library/Philosophy/Environmental%20philosophy/Ethics/Weston%20-%20The%20Incompleat%20Eco-Philosopher.%20Essays%20from%20the%20Edges%20of%20Environmental%20Ethics%20(2009).pdf]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">We know that the...</span>rise to this challenge?



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Humans will inevitably go extinct- choose to vote aff for a moment of ethical clarity</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glikson 1998</span> (Andrew, Earth and paleo-climate research scientist, plan eaters chain reactions black holes climate change and existential philosophy)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Possessed by a...</span>consider Sisyphus happy."



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">There is nothing unique about humanity, To believe anything else is to embrace insanity</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Becker 73</span> (Earnest, The Denial of Death, pg 25-27, Ph.D ins Cultural Anthropology, was a professor the University of California at Berkely, San Franciso State College, and Simon Fraser University, and founder of The Ernest Becker Foundation.)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">We always knew...</span>to reconcile the two?



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anthropocentrism is moral prejudice the burden is on the negative to prove that humans are the center of value</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Regan 90</span> (Tom, Professor of Philosophy at NC State, “Christianity and Animal Rights: The Challenge and Promise” 1990)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">I addressed this question... </span>fail to do so.



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eliminating the gap between human and non-human comes before all other political considerations</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wadiwel</span>, completing a doctorate at the University of Western Sydney, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2K4</span>
(Dinesh Joesph, “Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben
Discuss Animal (and Human) Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol 3 No. 1,

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Both of these ‘brushes’...</span>rights and values.




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The plan ushers in a new form of politics</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wadiwel</span>, completing a doctorate at the University of Western Sydney, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2K4</span>
(Dinesh Joesph, “Animal by Any Other Name? Patterson and Agamben
Discuss Animal (and Human) Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol 3 No. 1,

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">If it is true that...</span>humanity or animality.



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The living/nonliving distinction is irrelevant – even nonliving aspects of the environment have __intrinsic value__.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nicholson 92</span>(Shirley J. Nicholson, former chief editor of Quest Books , Krotona Institute of Theosophy in Ojai, CA, "Gaia's Hidden Life: The Unseen Intelligence of Nature" 1992, http://books.google.com/books?id=dLJW84nISZYC&dq=gaia+nicholson&lr=&source=gbs_navlinks_s, Google Books)

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">If this vital force...</span>to the living cells."



===**Contention Three: Solvency**=== 

**New lighting systems and regulations end negative ecological and health impacts**
**Hölker 2010**
(Dr. Frankz works at the Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB) Department of Ecohydrology, “The Dark Side of Light: A Transdisciplinary Research Agenda for Light Pollution Policy,” 2011, [[http://www.ecologyandsociety.org/vol15/iss4/art13/]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">With our present ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the Chilean Andes. </span>__**



**Shielding stops light pollution.**
**Kornreich - Assistant Professor in the Department of Physics and Physical Sciences @ Cornell- 1999** (Dave, “How does light pollution affect astronomers?” April. [Online] http://curious.astro.cornell.edu/question.php?number=194) JJ

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">There are two ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">energy as well!</span>__**


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Raising awareness about light pollution spreads the ideas</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crawford 1989</span>
(David L., – IDA –“Astronomy’s Problem With Light Pollution,” Leonardo, Volume 22, Number 2, p. 286, [Online] JSTOR)

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Solutions exist to...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the nighttime lighting. </span>__**

=Negative= 
your best bet is to look on Rob Wyde's wiki, he updates his wiki more often and we usually read similar arguments
==Capitalism K== 
**Space exploration is merely an outlet for the state to expand its capitalist grip – infinite wars will be fought over new resources – also their advantages are made up and/or inevitable in capitalism**
**Dickens 9 –** <span style="color: black;">Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The imminent conquest...</span>sticking-plaster, variety.




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Capitalism Guarantees Extinction- All threats to human survival can be traced to the system which prioritizes short-term profit over long-term viability- our impacts are three-fold:</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-The militarization of space</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-A nuclear “Great Game” resulting in every conceivable scenario for nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-Wildfire proliferation</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">All previous threats of nuclear war have been held in check by escalatory firebreaks which capitalism will inevitably destroy. Please flow this card, I shit you not, it is totally ridiculous.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marko 03</span>“Anarchism and Human Survival: Russell’s Problem”, 14/5/03 ([[http://india.indymedia.org/en/2003/05/4910.shtml]])
We Face a Choice: An Anarchist Future or No Future At All**.**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bertrand Russell throughout his long career as a public intellectual and political activist had reason to reflect on the follies of humanity and the real threats to human survival, threats which are self induced. Much speculation and movie making is devoted toward such survival threatening events as asteroid strikes and mantle head plumes. What is totally ignored is the threat to human survival posed by our own institutions. We can notch another one for the propaganda model; it is to be expected that our pathological institutions would not dwell on their inherent pathology. We can expect nothing less of the corporate media. </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">I shall argue....</span>I am afraid.



**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative. Our role is not to perform exemplary actions but rather take sides in the ongoing class struggle.**

**Tumino, 2002** (Stephen, Professor at Pitt, English Professor at Pitt, “Pierre Bourdieu as New Global Intellectual for Capital,” The Red Critique 6, September/October, [[http://redcritique.org/SeptOct02/pierrebourdieuasnewglobalintellectualforcapital.htm]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is only...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">above class ideology</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Space Mil Disad</span>== 


**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">As is well...</span>in these details.


**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>


**//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooperation for contested....</span>//**unacceptable to all.



**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 7pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)</span>


__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps of even...</span>__unacceptable to all.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]