==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">Affirmative and Advantages</span>**== 
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">SPS Affirmative (read all year) </span>**== 
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">Plan--</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan: The</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **United States** **Congress should establish a coordinated national policy for the purpose of creating a space based solar power infrastructure. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.**</span>
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">Inherency</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">nherency: Lack of funding and clear responsibility with the</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **United States** **federal government results in lack of development, despite viability of technology.**</span>
<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Shea**]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Space solar power has been … anticipation of launch cost reductions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 32px;">Climate Leaderhip ADV (post Durban)</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Ineffective Durban talks require a shift in focus from limits on carbon emissions to improving access to cleaner tech.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Revkin, environmental writer 2011</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Andrew New York Times December 12 </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> accessed 1/13)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Some hard ……limiting environmental harms</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Collaboration on energy policy provides international cooperation necessary for long term climate and energy agenda</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Revkin, environmental writer 2011</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Andrew New York Times December 12 </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> accessed 1/13)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Finally, I like …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">also </span>__<span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/12/02/fostering-education-for-innovation-and-vice-versa/|__in education__]]</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, communication and </span>__<span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.ymparisto.fi/default.asp?node=24739&lan=en|__policy__]]</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Acting now to slowing emissions allows for changes in rate of climate change—inaction results in worsening famine, erratic weather, water shortages</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">NPR, 11-30-11</span>**
<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=142930620]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> accessed tm 12-2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">U.N.'s top ….secure food supplies.</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rahmstorf, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Stefan, __Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=false]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 6-27 TM) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">It is time ……</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">All of your DA impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Becker</span>**//__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">,</span>__//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Bill , “ </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">” January 24, 20__11__ http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Finishing the job in Afghanistan and Iraq, reformingimmigration policy and bringing the economyback to health willbe high on the President’s priority list, as they should be. He’s expected to pay special attention to economic recovery in his State of the Union speech tomorrow.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">…..when weather variability and climate change combine.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Now is key – SPS solves climate change and the tech is ready to slow the rate</span>**
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hadhazy, Staff writer for the Scientific American, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Hadhazy, scientific american, 4/16/9, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day__]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pacific Gas & Electric Co</span>__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. (PG&E) has long invested in </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=how-renewable-energy-and-storage|renewable energy sources]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, including geothermal, wind and solar. Earlier this week, the utility company …..says Frank Little, associate director of the CSP.</span>

==**Advantage ___is Energy__**== 
__**Oil shocks coming now because of supply disruptions – perception of instability in the mid east and supply disruptions causes oil prices to soar – that tanks the global economy**__
__**Economist** 20**11** (3/3/11, “Oil and the economy The 2011 oil shock More of a threat to the world economy than investors seem to think” accessed 6/27/11 [[http://www.economist.com/node/18281774]] aes)__

THE price of oil has … would sap growth and raise inflation.



__**Additionally, the resulting oil competition causes US China war – Lateral pressure theory proves**__
__**Hatemi,** professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln **and Wedeman,** associate professor and chair of Asian Studies at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, **2007** ( Peter Hatemi is a professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Andrew Wedeman is associate professor and chair of Asian Studies at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln., China Security, Vol. 3 No. 3 Summer 2007, pp. 95 - 118 2007 World Security Institute, “Oil and Conflict in Sino-American Relations” accessed 6/27/11 [[http://www.wsichina.org/cs7_5.pdf]] aes)__

__Power transition theory is …__ somehow deny China equal access to oil supplies.


__**This tension into war--China US war escalates and causes nuclear war**__
__**Johnson,** author and journalist for the nation, **2001** (Chalmers Johnson is the author of more than a dozen books, including Revolutionary Change (Stanford), Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (Holt/Owl) and, most recently, The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic (Metropolitan), 5/14/01, “Time to Bring the Troops Home” accessed 6/27/11 [[http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home?page=0,0]] aes)__

__China is another matter. … United States may be an attempt to do precisely that.__


__**Additionally, Lack of terrestrial resources spark resources wars, SSP solves for resource security**__
__**Collins and Autino 08**__
__Patrick Collins and Andriano Autino, May 25 2008, [[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to_employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml]], Accessed June 24, 2011, JP)__

__<__As an alternative to the "resource wars" __…. to start the commercial use of space resources.>__


__**These resource wars over energy will escalate, incentivizing terrorism and irregular warfare**__
__**Moran and Russell 2008**__
__[Daniel and Jason, Associate Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Senior Lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School and Co-Director of the Center for Contemporary Conflict, “The Militarization of Energy Security” //Strategic Insights//, Feb 2008 http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/si/2008/Feb/moranFeb08.asp]__


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__This book does not seek to challenge…__</span>
irreducibly dependent on avoiding such a conflict.

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">Solvency</span>**== 
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Contention Three Solvency:</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Congress Key—NASA and Department of Energy need Congressional action to increase space based solar power.</span>__**
__<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Schubert**]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, Ph.D., P.E., Packer Engineering, Inc., Naperville, IL, 20**10** (Peter J., Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html NP)</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">At present, neither NASA, …__.__ A new organization is needed__.__</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coordinated national policy will ensure development of space based solar power. This also means that your xo counterplan won’t work without the coordination provided by the plan.</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rogue, Director of National Security Space Office 07</span>__**
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11.3333px;">(Joseph D. Rogue, Phase O Architecture Feasibility Study, JP)</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11.3333px;"><FINDING</span>____<span style="font-size: 16px;">: The SBSP Study Group … to mediate the collaboration and serve as an advocate for supportive policy, progress is likely to be slow</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11.3333px;">. ></span>__


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The technology does exists now - similar to communication satellites just needs more investment</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Goldenberg, US environment correspondent, 09</span>__**
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Suzanne Goldenberg, April 16, 2009, </span><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2009/apr/16/solar-energy-farms-space]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, JP)</span>__
__<span style="color: #1d1d1d; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"><Solaren has released relatively ….. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">that this is not really a technology issue__."></span>


==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 24px;">china cooperation Aff (read by varsity at TFA state possible will read at novice nationals)</span>**== 
Outline
Inherency:

Obama doctrine on space is focused on international cooperation as evidence by National Space Policy


**Fukushima, National Institute Defense Studies, 2011**
(Yasuhito, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/journal/02659646|__Space Policy__]], Feb 2011 ebsco 6/20 rs)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Above all,</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">” in Obama’s NSP.</span>__
**Turf battles within the US government render unilateral development of space based solar power ineffective in the status quo**
[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/about_ed.html#flournoy|**Shea**]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, </span><span style="color: #000033; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, 20**10** (Karen Cramer, Online Space Journal of Communication, December 2010. http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html NP)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Space solar power has… launch cost reductions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">.</span>
Advantage __- It’s Gettn’ Hot in Here—Climate cooperation__

__Ineffective Durban talks require a shift in focus from limits on carbon emissions to improving access to cleaner tech.__

__Revkin, environmental writer 2011__

__(Andrew New York Times December 12[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt|__http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt__]] accessed 1/13)__

Some hard realities are being acknowledged as diplomats, scientists, scholars and others ponder next steps following the__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/10/young-voices-at-deadlocked-durban-climate-talks/|__indeterminate Durban climate negotiations__]]__ —__[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/science/earth/countries-at-un-conference-agree-to-draft-new-emissions-treaty.html?ref=earth|__the latest failed attempt__]]__ to limit climate risk using__[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/12/15/warming-pollution-or-technology-problem/|__pollution-style restrictions__]]__ on carbon dioxide under a global treaty__.__

The real-time demand …while limiting environmental harms__.__

__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Rahmstorf</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Stefan, </span>__Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=fals]]</span>[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|e]]<span style="font-size: 16px;"> 6-27 TM) </span>__

__It is time to turn to statement ….<span style="font-size: 16px;">around the world</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(many of whom were initially quite skeptical, including myself) that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>__


__**Failure to act now leads to runaway warming that collapses civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation**__
__**Brown,** Masters in AE from Maryland & Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S **2008**__
__(Lester E. Brown, Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization [[http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7%20accessed%206-27|http://www.earth-policy.org/books/pb3/PB3ch3_ss7 accessed 6-27]] tm )__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow …</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">could begin to unravel under these extreme stresses.</span>__


__**Acting now to slowing emissions allows for changes in rate of climate change—inaction results in worsening famine, erratic weather, water shortages**__ 
__**NPR, 11-30-11**__
__[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=142930620]] accessed tm 12-2__
__The__ <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.N.'s top climate scientist cautioned climate negotiators </span>__Wednesday that__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> global warming is leading to human dangers and soaring …more secure food supplies.</span>

__**All of your DA impacts ranging from disease, immigration, the economy, to terrorism will be exacerbated by climate change – action now prevents runaway warming**__ 
__**Becker**__//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//__executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project (PCAP)//<span style="color: #333333;">,</span>//worked on energy efficiency and renewable energy programs for 15 years at the U.S. Department of Energy, **2011**__
__(Bill , “ <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://climateprogress.org/2011/01/24/will-global-warming-chill-obama%e2%80%99s-legacy/|Will global warming chill Obama’s legacy?]]</span>” January 24, 20__11 __http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/01/24/207389/will-global-warming-chill-obama%E2%80%99s-legacy/ accessed6-27 TM)__

__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Finishing the job in Afghanistan and Iraq</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">reformingimmigration policy</span> and <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">bringing the economyback to health willbe high on the …</span>what happens when weather variability and climate change combine.__


__**Lack of terrestrial resources spark resources wars, SSP solves for resource security**__
__**Collins and Autino 08**__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Patrick Collins and Andriano Autino, May 25 2008, [[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to_employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml]], Accessed June 24, 2011, JP)</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><</span>__As an alternative …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">use of space resources.></span>__

__These resource wars over energy will escalate, incentivizing terrorism and irregular warfare__
__Moran and Russell 2008__
__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[Daniel and Jason,Associate Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Senior Lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School and Co-Director of the Center for Contemporary Conflict, “The Militarization of Energy Security” //Strategic Insights//, Feb 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/si/2008/Feb/moranFeb08.asp]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">]</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This book does not seek to …</span>__avoiding such a conflict.

__**Collaboration on energy policy provides international cooperation necessary for long term climate and energy agenda**__

__**Revkin, environmental writer 2011**__

__(Andrew New York Times December 12 <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/a-post-pollution-path-to-global-climate-and-energy-progress/?scp=11&sq=climate+durban&st=nyt]]</span> accessed 1/13)__

__Finally, I like …__, communication and __<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.ymparisto.fi/default.asp?node=24739&lan=en|policy]]</span>__.


__**Now is key – SPS solves climate change and the tech is ready to slow the rate**__ 
__**<span style="color: #262626;">Hadhazy, Staff writer for the Scientific American, 9</span>**__
__<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Adam Hadhazy, scientific american, 4/16/9, </span>[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day|__http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=will-space-based-solar-power-finally-see-the-light-of-day__]]<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">, 6/23/11, KJ)</span>__
<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Pacific Gas & Electric Co</span>__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 10.6667px;">. …, associate director of the CSP.</span>__
__SPS energy payback time is one week- calculations prove__

__Mankins, <span style="font-size: 12px;">International Academy of Astronautics,</span> 2011__

__<span style="font-size: 10px;">(John, “Space Solar Power:THE FIRST INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF SPACE SOLAR POWER: OPPORTUNITIES, ISSUES AND POTENTIAL PATHWAYS FORWARD” November 2011 </span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 10px;">[[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf%20accessed%20tm%2012-3|http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf accessed tm 12-3]]</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Another …</span><span style="font-size: 10px;">economics of the system.</span>__

__NASA can have SPS up and running within 1 year, thats right, just ONE year__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Costa 10</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(sociobiologist whose expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies, the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric, Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/|)]]</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If we took a moment to rank …</span>solution here on earth__.
__Advantage__ -Clarity in Foreign Policy

United States foreign policy towards China reflects the conflicted view of China over whether China rise will be peaceful or not. US foreign policy currently reacts to this rise rather than shapes it. We say cooperation but we don’t act on it. US efforts to space race with China reflect this foreign policy ambiguity and makes space war //inevitable//.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gargasz 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael Luke, Major, United States Air Force, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What? The Future of US/China Space Relations”// -jdp)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span><span class="small" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Traditionally</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="underline">US deterrent …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">of such an endeavor. </span>


**Failure to challenge current views of China makes conflict inevitable—only the Aff challenges SQ notions of China**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Pan 2004 Alternatives vol 29 issue 3 p 503-531 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">I have argued…..become possible </span>

**Now is the key time to forge a new direction in US China relations**

**China undergoing leadership transition in March—US clarification of our relationship smooths that transition. Recent visit by Xi Jinping demonstrates the unique opportunity to follow through on the goodwill generated by his visit.**

**Jiao and Jia 2/17/12**

<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Wu Jiao and Chen Jia, Asia One News, February 17 2012,</span>[[http://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20120217-328455.html|__http://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20120217-328455.html__]]<span style="font-size: 10px;">, Accessed February 17 2012, JDP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">WASHINGTON - Vice-President Xi Jinping urged….Xi as a "good listener".</span>

**US engagement with China on space spills over to other issues areas.**

**<span style="color: #000000;">Krolikowski 11</span>**
<span style="color: #000000;">(Alanna, Visiting scholar Space Policy Institute, </span>, The George Washington University PhD candidate, University of Toronto, “China’s Civil and Commercial Space Activities and their Implications”, May 5, 2011, [[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html|__http://www.spacenews.com/policy/110504-china-partner-mars-exploration.html__]], accessed 2/24/12 Bill)
__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">China is one of …..could prove valuable in a crisis.</span>__

**Specifically, SPS cooperation uniquely good**

Cox, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, 2011

(William John, March 23, 2011, [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html|__http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html__]], 6-27-11)


__President Kennedy once said, “We choose to go to the moon in this decade, not because it is easy, but because it is hard.” The ….futures that surround and await us.__

Cooperative relations between US and China<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">solve multiple scenarios for nuclear war and environmental destruction. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;"> esperes, Fellow at the RAND Corporation, 2001</span> (John, Fellow at the RAND Corporation, “China, the United States, and the Global Economy.” p. 227-8)

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Indeed, </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S.-Chinese relations …and currently endangered species. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Coop with China solves arms race and space war—and disrupts the current constructions of China that make conflict over space inevitable. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">DeGroot 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Gerard, **BA (Whitman), PhD (Edin.), “**As China gazes upwards, watch this space”, August 25, 2011, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8722806/As-China-gazes-upwards-watch-this-space.html]], accessed 2/26/12 Bill)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In a rather disturbing article published a fortnight ago, Dean Cheng speculates __on Chinese space intentions and concludes by …so long been treated like one.__ </span>
==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan text Cooperation Aff</span>**== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">As an expression of the National Space Policy and beginning with the People’s Republic of China, the United States federal government should establish a Space-Solar Energy Consortium in order to </span>cooperatively research, develop, deploy, and produce energy from outer space. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.







=Negative= 
see Jesuit College Prep KD---and email [[mailto:tmcfarland929@gmail.com|tmcfarland929@gmail.com]] for cites or more detail on the arguments


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]