[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**LEVINAS AFF:**

**OBSERVATION ONE:** I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but I am open to alternate interpretations. If the NEG would like me to defend something else, they can ask me to do so in CX.

**OBSERVATION TWO IS FRAMEWORK:** <span style="color: #000000;">I value **justice.** T</span>he nature of our relationships with and obligations towards others form the basis of the requirements of justice.

<span style="color: #000000;">Previous philosophical theories try to distill justice into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. For example, Kantian ethics establishes human dignity or reflective practical reason as the basis for all ethical reasoning. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">Emmanuel Levinas and... my own image.</span>//


<span style="color: #000000;">Other agents cease to be unique entities that exist independently of ourselves because all knowledge is said to stem from //our// systemic procedures for ethics. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">However,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> a sound basis for ethics requires a coherent understanding of the other. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="color: #1f2734;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

//**<span style="color: #000000;">There the transcendental... possible at all.</span>**//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounter with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will so we could not distinguish our own autonomous action from the decisions of the other. This makes it impossible to concpetualize our autonomy. </span>

Thus we must respect the other.

[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftnref|A]]<span style="color: #000000;">nthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

//If the otherness... look at God.//


**<span style="color: #000000;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> the AFF **burden** is to prove that animals are an other worthy of ethical consideration.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000;">Further,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> prefer this framework for two additional reasons:</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">First</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other,s. This also allows us to exclude anything outside of our defined interpretation of what the other is. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Anthony F. Beaver. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Anthony F. Beavers. “</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS;">Introducing Levinas to Undergraduate Philosophers</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">”. </span>This paper was originally presented as a colloquy paper to the Undergraduate Philosophy Association at the University of Texas at Austin, 1990. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://faculty.evansville.edu/tb2/PDFs/UndergradPhil.pdf]]</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">//If we can... on the environment//.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Second</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, ethics must accept others because we can never fully understand them. When we encounter the other, it has an independent perspective that eludes my understanding so we have no choice but to respect its otherness</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//Levinas suggests in...a power exercised.//


<span style="color: #000000;">My thesis and sole contention is that a proper understanding of the other requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>
**<span style="color: #000000;">A) </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">Animals constitute an other because we are unable to truly and fully understand them. </span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">It is useful...types of beings.</span>//


**<span style="color: #000000;">Further</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, differences between humans and animals are irrelevant. This dichotomy would thematize and totalize the other**<span style="color: #000000;">[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftn7|.]]</span>**</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Our humanity is...of active invitation.//


**<span style="color: #000000;">B) </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">Justice would require the recognition of animal rights, even if animals are not truly an “other.”</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Levinas's statements in... question of ethics.//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> justice must recognize the rights of all agents that influence the interaction between ourselves and the other, not just those within the realm of the other. </span>

**Finally,** ethical obligations to others can only be conceptualized as rights.

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//**<span style="color: #000000;">We have seen... a moral right.</span>**//
== == 
**STANDING AFF**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">STANDING AFF</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">I affirm and value **Justice.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Justice is the normative term we employ to describe the system of obligations and entitlements people have in relation to one another. Thus**,** justice and rights emerge as socially constructed tools.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">David Hume, __An Inquiry Considering the Principles of Morals__, in the version presented at www.earlymoderntexts.com (1758), p. 8 .</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"Let's suppose that... list of virtues"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moreover, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> conceptions of justice are context-dependent. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Jurgen Habermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], __The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory__. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 36-37.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"A sentence or... all future obligations"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">any normative claim necessarily relies on an appeal to a higher order principle.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hans Kelsen—1978. [A</span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Calibri;">ustrian jurist and philosopher of law]. Pure Theory of Law. University of California Press, pp. 193. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"A norm referring... the higher norm"</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the validity of any normative order is grounded in certain foundational, socially constructed norms. Constitutional and legal structures must form this basis.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hans Kelsen—1978. [A</span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Calibri;">ustrian jurist and philosopher of law]. Pure Theory of Law. University of California Press, pp. 193. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"To understand the...a basic norm"</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">**Third,** justice can only be ensured through consistency with the law</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">"The greatest fear...to the law"</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">justice would //not// entail that gross violations of rights are permitted under justice simply because precedent for such practices exist. If certain norms are inconsistent with more fundamental legal norms, then they are antithetical to justice because they would violate other basic norms. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **Maintaining Consistency With Legal Norms.**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION TWO IS INHERENCY:</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Status quo</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> legal practice denies animals standing in civil court. Although the Endangered Species Act purports to establish broad procedures to protect animals, it’s extremely difficult to bring anything to court since the plaintiff has to demonstrate that he or she has suffered ‘injury in fact.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“The Supreme court…in the subject”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION THREE IS THE PLAN:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS WILL CLARIFY AND ACCORDINGLY AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT TO AFFORD PROTECTED ANIMALS LEGAL STANDING UNDER THE CITIZEN SUIT PROVISION. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d; display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Due to varying…citizen suit provision”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">OBSERVATION FOUR IS SOLVENCY: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Explicitly granting animals standing in civil court is the only way to align legal practice with legal norms.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">denying an animal’s standing in civil court is inconsistent with the legislative intent of congress in the ESA. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Rejecting the possibility…the Act indicated”</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">a proper reading of the language used in the ESA clearly indicates that animals should have standing in civil court based on the fact that they exist within U.S. jurisdiction. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Joanna B. Wymyslo—Fall 2007. [J.D. Candidate, Class of 2008, Florida Coastal School of Law]. Standing for Endangered Species: Justiciability Beyond Humanity. University of Baltimore Journal of Environmental Law, Vol. 15, No. 45.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">“Despite the inclusive…citizen suit provision.”</span>


**CAPABILITIES AFF**
Section One is Epistemology
Value: Justice

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Daniels 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">describes the model of reflective equilibrium</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The method of</span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> are still defeasible </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Moral judgment about a particular case would be justified if it was consistent with the rest of our beliefs on due reflection and after appropriate revisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Prefer this method of justifying a theory of justice for three reasons:</span>

1.<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Reasoning from first principles or definitions is not adequate to justify normative theories. **Rawls** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Philosophers commonly try</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">to be justified.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Reflective Equilibrium avoids the problematic epistemology of foundationalist accounts.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Daniels </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Because we are</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">told about them.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Trying to reason from first principles gets in the way of developing a substantive conception of justice. **Rawls 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506-507</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore**__we do..__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">.theory of justice.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">And </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rights are based off of multiple norms, not one reason. Therefore, we must look to a theory that takes all norms into account. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kelch</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">Kelch, Thomas G. 1999. [Professor of Law At Whitter Law School] //The Role of the Rational and the Emotive in a Theory of Animal Rights// 1999 Boston College Law School, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review. </span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">When we ask</span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">of various ingredients.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">3. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Some form of consensus is necessary to engage in discourse. **Rawls 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">John Rawls. 1987. //The Idea of an Overlapping Consensus.// </span><span style="font-family: Code2000; font-size: 16px;">Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Spring, 1987), pp. 1-25.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Consider why: **__the__**</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">of political justice.</span>__**

Section 2 is Framework


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> describes the capabilities approach to justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Within moral and</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">income or wealth)</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">furthers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">According to the</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> not human functionings.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Thus the standard</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> is promoting dignified and flourishing life. Prefer it for two reasons:</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> the capabilities approach is most consistent with reflective equilibrium. **Nussbaum 1**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>
Although such a... make them only

**Second,**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> varying need for resources based on differential capabilities is an omnipresent aspect of moral life **Nussbaum 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">My capabilities approach... in public places</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">showing we should respect animal entitlements to a flourishing and dignified life means that we should recognize their rights. **Nussbaum 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 336-337</span>

This is a... unfair to them.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">So, the affirmative burden is to show that the capabilities approach recognizes the moral interests of animals.</span>

**Section 3: The Capabilities Approach Applies to Animals**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> animals are capable of living a dignified life, which humans often deny them. **Nussbaum 4**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 326</span>

**__Nonhuman animals are... court boldly does__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">**Second**, animal lives inspire awe and wonder like human lives, suggesting we ought to value their flourishing.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Nussbaum 5</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>

**__The same attitude... the capabilities approach__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> affording dignity to diverse ways of life, including those marked as “animalistic” in human beings, suggest that we ought to extend moral respect to non-human animals. **Nussbaum 6**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 356</span>
**__In chapter 3... the whole idea__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">the pervasive effect of humans on animals requires strong positive obligations. **Nussbaum 7**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>
In the human... make for themselves

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Nussbaum 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">concludes the AC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 350-351</span>
Put another way... off or fruitless
----

==Negative== 


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate and value **Justice.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Justice is a social construct more than an absolute or transcendent set of principles. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kuflik</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Arthur Kuflik. “Hume on Justice to Animals, Indians and Women.” April 1998. Hume Studies Volume XXIV, Number I, pp. 53-70. [[@http://www.humesociety.org/hs/issues/v24n1/kuflik/kuflik-v24n1.pdf]]. BG</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Hume,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">all these extremes” [EPM 1881.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As a system that exists to effectively govern societal relationships, any scheme of justice must be based on the assumption that all of its members could flourish without infringing on the rights or desires of others. </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Barilan </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">People abuse and ... trying to do so.38</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **Demonstrating Moral Sociability.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that animals are not morally sociable creatures.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> survive, animals must violate the rights of other animals. Thus, they cannot coexist in a just society. **Barilan 2**</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The lion and ...</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> own moral sense.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Aristotelian NC</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">I negate, and value **justice**</span>






<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The adoption of a normative system cannot be justified using techniques of rationalization. **Reader**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]] explains;</span>



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-align: justify;">What is the alternative? …</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">we need to go.</span>__**</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">We start with individuals in a species or group to generate natural rules, and then use those facts to judge the rest of the individuals. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thompson[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In speaking of … </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">at a bonzai exhibition. </span>

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">good and bad are attributive adjectives meaning that something can only be good or bad in relation to what is good or bad. **Geach[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">I can now state my first … thesis, illegitimate.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Standard: **Consistency With One’s Natural Purpose**</span>





<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">I contend that the granting of animals rights is inconsistent with human’s natural purposes. Humans are omnivores. The Vegetarian Research Group. [[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Archeological Record .. and health concerns.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A strict vegetarian diet leads to B-12 deficiency. </span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.webmd.com/sid-kircheimer|**__Sid Kirchheimer__**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Researchers have long ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> B12 deficiency.</span>__**






----


----

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[1]]] Soran Reader. “New Directions in Ethical Naturalism.” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/27504153]]</span></span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364 Published by: </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Springer.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[2]]]Michael Thompson . “Apprehending Human Form.”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/%7Emthompso/apprehending.pdf|http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/apprehending.pdf]]</span>. This is a re-typeset version of the manuscript that appeared in Modern Moral Philosophy, ed. A. O’Hear; the italics have vanished, but it seems as well without them. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">P.T. Geach, “Good and Evil,” //Analysis// 17, no. 2 (1956): 33-42. </span><span style="color: #293442; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3326442]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[4]]]Vegetarian Resource Group (Adapted from a talk by John McArdle, Ph.D.), “Humans are Omnivores,” article originally published in the May/June 1991 edition of the Vegetarian Journal</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[5]]] [Sid Kirchheimer has been a health and medical writer and editor for two decades. A former newspaper reporter, he has written or edited 15 health books, including the 2 million-copy best-seller, //The Doctors Book of Home Remedies II//. He has launched two newsletters, and directed web sites for doctors and patients. In addition to working for WebMD since 2002, he has contributed to dozens of leading publications and web sites. ] June 18, 2003. “</span>**<span style="color: #698b25; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Vegetarian Diet and B12 Deficiency</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Vitamin B12 Deficiency Seen in All Types of Vegetarians”. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.webmd.com/food-recipes/news/20030618/vegetarian-diet-b12-deficiency]]</span>.</span>**

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
====<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kant AC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality must be based in humanity’s conception of moral personhood. Without doing so, we could never bridge the ought-ought gap, meaning that people don’t have a reason that they ought to do what they are compelled to do by morality. **Strom[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Now, the ―ought-ought… about good people.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Just because people act as though they ought to be selfish, or ought to harm others doesn’t meant this fulfills the ought-ought gap. </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">CS Lewis[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If you take a</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">…</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> to behave differently.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead, **Velleman**</span>[[home#_ftn3|****[3]****]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">explains how people act in accordance with the way they perceive themselves. </span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">A human</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">being</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">’s</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">…</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">label “act identification.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Humans derive their reasons for acting from their unique perspective and their ability to separate their instincts from reason. **Korsgaard[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">But </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the human …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> it cannot commit itself or go forward.</span>

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">And, Velleman 2[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> explains why questioning the authority of reasons just purports its own significance.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">As we have seen, … a reason to act for reasons. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> as rational agents, which seek justification for all actions, the moral rules we determine for ourselves are universal. **Engstrom[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">As we saw,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> of the //we// of practical knowledge. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **consistency with universal maxims**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All humans set ends for themselves, as the very nature of being a person requires us to seek out certain end states. **Engstrom 2[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Is there anything … out through its specification.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> since we all have our own ends and desires, willing that people help you achieve those ends means that you necessarily must also help others achieve their own ends. **Engstrom 3[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Kant explains how …would need assistance. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Engstrom 4[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">continues how living in pursuit of your own happiness ultimately leads to a contradiction in universal maxim, even if pursuing your own happiness is bound by not harming others.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">With these …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> but not his. </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">rational agents cannot will a maxim of non-beneficence because we all require assistance. However, this duty is not couched in any pity or compassion felt for the other person, the duty is based on simply a contradiction in universal maxim regardless of emotions. **Wood[[home#_ftn10|**[10]**]]**</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Participation</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">along with love</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">… **__we actively do.__**</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">C.S. Lewis Mere Christianity1943 Scan and OCR by Copper Kettle aka T.A.G, 2003-12-21. Yekaterinburg.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="color: #141414; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Stephen Engstrom – 2009, //The Form of Practical Knowledge// [Harvard University Press, 2009], pg. 122-123. BG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> Stephen Engstrom. “Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]] Allen Wood. 2008. //Kantian Ethics.// Cambridge University Press. MO.</span>
==[[#November-December-Negative]]<span style="font-size: 33.6px;">[[#November-December-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
===[[#November-December-Negative-Abstract Morality K]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Abstract Morality K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE FRAMEWORK: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Concerns over how we debate are prior to what we debate.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Link:</span>**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">The AC’s framework discusses moral in terms of an abstract ethical theory instead of terms of what specific agents should do. However, they do not discuss ethics in terms of what specific actors such as firemen, policemen, or government agents should do.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Impact: </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">, Moral disagreement pervades society. In the real world we have no way of determining which ethical theory is true. This means the process of philosophical education is ultimately self-defeating and produces a bunch of skeptics. **Baier 1[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">The obvious trouble …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> What guidance is that? </span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">, No reform in the system can solve this problem. Moral disagreement begins because we live in a pluralistic society with different types of values. **Baier 2**</span>


<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; text-align: left;">Most of us do …</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> in a moral theory. </span>__**</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In fact,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> instead of providing those who wish to learn about philosophy a new system on which to base actions, we instead destabilize the scholar’s previous moral beliefs and offer no guidance on finding a suitable alternative. **Baier 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">The array of …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> deliberately devised.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Philosophical instruction shakes our faith in our own moral intuitions. The first thing we learn in philosophy is that we need a rational justification for moral theories. This means we can’t trust our intuition that, for example, killing someone is wrong on face. **Baier 4**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">A significant fact … mimic legal systems.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Baier 5 continues</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Moral theorizers usually ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">encouraged to cultivate.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">society is not perfect and we cannot actually access the ideal worlds created by our moral theories. This means we have to find ways to transition to this perfect society; however, there is no one to judge when it is correct when it is to take those actions as those judges may be corrupt or imperfect themselves. **Baier** **6**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">This lengthy insistence … understand our way around.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral rules are often too vague to actually guide decisions and even if they were specific enough people will bend the rules to justify their skeptical, self-interested beliefs. **Baier 7**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Whatever we say …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> not fellow-persons</span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) is the Alternative: </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Instead of conceptualizing ethics in terms of abstract theories, we must instead look at the moral implications of a specific actor taking an action. **Baier 8**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">What does …links the bits together. </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Baier 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> concludes the kritik</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">What</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> I have …. and definite ones.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Annette Baier. “Postures of the Mind.”</span>

===[[#November-December-Negative-Kant NC]]<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Kant NC</span>=== 
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">The value is morality as implied by the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The only place in which a moral obligation could actually be derived from is reason. We as humans have the ability to question any other source of authority by asking why they are an authority</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">. **Velleman[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** </span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">As we have seen, ...reason to act for reasons. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, the burden is to prove that practical reason can provide a basis for an obligation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Kantianism does not derive rights or moral laws because it relies on morality being self-legislating. This type of ethics relies on us giving reasons to ourselves for our moral rules. **However,** self-legislation cannot actually provide moral rules as there is no absolute authority in giving a law to oneself. **Ridely and Alvarez[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">We have noted, in the ....</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> any obvious content.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C2. It is impossible ever to force someone to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do. This creates and ought-ought gap in ethics. **Strom[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Now, the ―ought-.... about good people.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus as we can always question why we ought to do what we ought to do, there is no reason there is an actual obligation to help others. This offense also links into the affirmative framework because there is no reason for people actually to understand why they ought to do what they ought to do under the aff.</span>



----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="color: #012356; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">J. David Velleman, //Self to Self: Selected Essays//, Cambridge University Press, 2006. BG</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Maria Alvarezand Aaron Ridley [</span><span style="color: #4f4f4f; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">University of Southampton]. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">“</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">The Concept of Moral Obligation: Anscombe contra Korsgaard.”</span><span style="color: #0c447a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=PHI|Philosophy ]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">, 82: 543-552. The Royal Institute of Philosophy. 2007. BG.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh.</span>
== == 

=January-February= 
==<span style="font-size: 33.6px;">Affirmative </span>== 
==Victims Voices AC== 



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I affirm. The AC will establish that domestic violence is part of a system of oppression that ignores the voices of victims and that many current practices in LD debate similarly ignore marginalized voices.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">Part I: The Nature of Domestic Violence</span>**




<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">A. Oppression encapsulates many facets. **Deutsch**: </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Morton Deutsch (2006). A framework for thinking about oppression and its change. Social Justice Research, 19(1), 7-41.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Oppression is the… agents of oppression</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B. Domestic Violence operates in a larger system of oppression</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, Domestic Violence includes the use of many tactics to maintain oppressive power in a relationship. Johnson 1: </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Associate Professor of Law at University of Baltimore School of Law. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">"</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Redefining Harm, Reimagining Remedies and Reclaiming Domestic Violence Law//,// 42 //UC Davis L. Rev//. 1107 (2009), cited in Douglas E. Abrams, et al., //Contemporary Family Law// (2d ed. 2009) Bietz)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In the social… subjected to abuse.65</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, domestic violence is part of a larger system of oppression rather than a series of isolated incidents.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;"> **Hirschmann 1:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Nancy J. Hirschmann [Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania]. “Domestic Violence and the Theoretical Discourse of Freedom.” //Frontiers: A Journal of Women Studies//. Vol. 16, No. 1 (1996), pp. 126-151 AK)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In the position… not just internal</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part II: Ignoring Victims and Discursive Dehumanization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Disbelieving, linguistic maneuvering or calling into question a victim’s recollection of an experience in domestic abuse in ways that would discredit their knowledge is an additional act of dehumanization. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A. Philosophical academia does not take seriously the voice of victims.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">highly abstract philosophical theory undermines engagement with real problems because it treats theory as an end in itself. **MacKinnon:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Catherine A. MacKinnon [J.D. and Ph.D. from Yale University, Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School]. //Women’s Lives Men’s Laws.// 2005. print. AK</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It is common… de-realization of the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, philosophy academia believes personal accounts of violence are self-indulgent and not relevant to the creation of universality. This need to universalize silences victims. **Brison**</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Susan J. Brison [Assoc. Prof. of Philosophy, Dartmouth College]. “Surviving Sexual Violence.” //Violence against women: philosophical perspevtives.// Cornell University Press, 1998, pg 11-26 AK)</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Some may consider… their own words.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B. Debate does not take seriously the voices of victims. **Prosise, et al 1**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis… of logical types.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">Part III: Our systems of belief and practice must not perpetuate insensitivity to victim voices.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A. Humanitarian sensibilities are a moral resource.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, the pitfalls of detached moral philosophy cannot be solved by simply applying whatever abstract ethical system to a given situation. Instead, in the absence of a transcendent, rationalistic stasis point, we need to use our basic sensibilities about human wellbeing as the basis for moral practice. **Glover 1:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Jonathan Glover //Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century//. Yale University Press. 2000</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Not all sceptics… a central place.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Furthermore</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, psychological avoidance causes inaction in the face of extreme inhumanity. **Glover 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Jonathan Glover //Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century//. Yale University Press. 2000</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It is necessary… act against them.’1</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt;">For example, **MacKinnon** explains why women’s voices are necessary to revise the human rights paradigm. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[Catherine A. MacKinnon [J.D. and Ph.D. from</span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Yale University</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Law at the</span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> University of Michigan Law School</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">].RAPE, GENOCIDE, AND WOMEN'S HUMAN RIGHTS, 17 Harv. Women's L.J. 5 (1994)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Human rights have … seem largely to believe.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> it is important to see arguments and their usage as reproduction of social power. **Prosise 2**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Argument is most… public decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, academic discourse constructs rules of argumentation that can exclude voices but can also challenge established authority. **Prosise 3**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The importance of… of argumentative authority</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Third</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, standards for legitimizing arguments are field dependent rather than universal. **Prosise 4**:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Perhaps the most… field relative perspective</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part IV: The voice of victims and moral permissibility of argument and action</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The affirmative does not presume to pass judgment on the choices of domestic violence victims. The web of disempowering ideologies and practices under conditions of oppression make it impossible for third-party observers to meaningfully evaluate such choices. The contextual particularities of oppressive systems are enormously diverse and opaque. The greater the oppression, the less appropriate judgment becomes. Categorically characterizing victims as irrational, mentally ill, or suggesting that they have failed to meaningfully consider the options available to protect what they value is arrogant and dehumanizing. Every victim will make their own choice based on their particular lived experiences. Voting affirmative opens up the space necessary to give victims a voice, where voting negative holds them to external standards divorced from the reality of individual victimhood. **Johnson 1:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Associate Professor of Law at University of Baltimore School of Law. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">"</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">Redefining Harm, Reimagining Remedies and Reclaiming Domestic Violence Law//,// 42 //UC Davis L. Rev//. 1107 (2009), cited in Douglas E. Abrams, et al., //Contemporary Family Law// (2d ed. 2009) Bietz)</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Since domestic violence… subjected to abuse.</span>




==Net Benefits AC[[#January-February-Hobbes AC]]== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I affirm and value **morality** as implied by the resolution.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but if the neg wants a different interpretation they can ask in CX and I will either concede to the interpretation or concede to the Violation on T.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]** explains that strong rationalism fails both because it undermines its own legitimacy and requires a “view from no-where” to objectively determine facts.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything wrong …have to</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> bow to.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">to argue that justifications for ethics ought to be based upon rationality or emotions or intuitions is regressive. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">In the wake of the Holocaust, “never again” serves as a rallying cry, which should pervade our moral theories. **Glover**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Not all sceptics about … pattern of failure.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> only a system of net benefits can condemn the actions of those who commit atrocities, and allow for action to prevent these atrocities. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **net benefits.**</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Contention 1 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">is the direct impact of domestic violence on victims.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A) is death- The Silent Witness National Initiative[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Female murder victims ….</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">assaults. </span>__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(NOW Legal Defense Fund)</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> harms to the victim outweigh harms to the abuser. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Herman[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|[4]]] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">warrants that killing someone who intends to harm simply reaffirms human-worth.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This same fact blocks …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of self-respect.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">B)</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Victims are subject to constant abuse and fear of violence in abusive relationships. Women describe the psychological abuse of domestic violence to be worse than the physical abuse that they endure. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Leonard[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|[5]]]</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Even more hidden than …. crime under current statutes.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This dehumanization outweighs any other impact. **Butler**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|[6]]]:</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported …. a life that qualifies for recognition.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Deadly force can be used as a last option for victims. Victims can try all the options that the neg wants to bring up and then use deadly force; it is still a permissible option. I dare you to run a counterplan; I will perm it. My advantages are not based on deadly force being the only option.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Contention 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> is patriarchy.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Patriarchy and societal subjugation of women is the cause of crimes against women. **MacKinnon[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn7|[7]]]**</span>




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">So what is meant by treatment “…the name of a way of being human.”</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">patriarchy and such conceptions of women perpetuate domestic violence. **Johnson[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn8|[8]]]**</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Another indicator …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to gender attitudes</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">However,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">domestic violence victims who kill their abusers are acting to defy those who define them into specific gender roles. **Taylor**[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn9|[9]]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Homicides by women</span>__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">, …..: the right to physical safety.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">AND,</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Making deadly force morally permissible uproots such norms meaning affirming stops one of the root causes of domestic violence. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Ayyildiz[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn10|[10]]]</span>**





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">BWS is but one moderate ….</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> and empowerment.</span>__</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Contention 3 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">is long term prevention of domestic violence. Making deadly force permissible deters abusers from attacking victims. **Zipursky[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn11|[11]]]** </span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A similar argument ….rguably enhance women’:</span>


----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[1]]] The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. BG.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[2]]] Glover, Jonathon. //Humanity// (Yale University Press: 1999), 406</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm]]. 2006. Silent Witness began promoting an end to domestic violence in 1990 and now in 2004 we are pleased to report that domestic homicide rates are dropping significantly. Our message is one of hope, help and healing for the victims and perpetrators of domestic violence. In this site you will find out more about Silent Witness's efforts to end the silence about domestic violence and bring successful programs to every state</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[4]]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Barbara Herman-1989[University of Southern California] “Murder and Mayhem: Violence and Kantian Casuistry,” //The Monist,// Vol. 72, No. 3, pp. 411-431. AS</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[5]]] Elizabeth Ann Dermody Leonard-1997[Professor Emerita of Sociology at Vanguard University] “Convicted Survivors: The Imprisonment of Battered Women Who Kill” AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[7]]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Catherine A. MacKinnon [J.D. and Ph.D. from </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|__Yale University__]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Professor of Law at the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Michigan_Law_School|University of Michigan Law School]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">]. //Women’s Lives Men’s Laws.//2005. print. AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[8]]]Michael P. Johnson [Pennsylvania State University, Sociology Department]. “Domestic Violence: It's Not about Gender: Or Is It?” //Journal of Marriage and Family//, Vol. 67, No. 5 (Dec., 2005), pp. 1126-1130 SH</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[9]]] Laurie J. Taylor [BA, Wittenberg University]. "PROVOKED REASON IN MEN AND WOMEN: HEAT- OF-PASSION MANSLAUGHTER AND IMPERFECT SELF-DEFENSE”//UCLA Law Review.// Vol. 33: 1679. 1986 AK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[10]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Elisabeth Ayyildiz-1995[J.D. Chicago-Kent College of Law] “When Battered Woman’s Syndrome Does Not Go Far Enough: The Battered Woman AS Vigilante” AS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref|[11]]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Benjamin C. Zipursky-1996[University of Pittsburgh] “Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination and the Social Contract”. AS</span>
==Hobbes AC== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality** </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Black’s law</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> dictionary[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">defines permissible as:</span>


**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Allowed; … may be done</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The US Model Penal Code[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] defines deadly force as:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">"**__Force that the …serious bodily injury.__**" </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality is characterized by the social contract. Moral uncertainty and moral disagreement lead to violence within the state of nature, which is irresolvable. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Renzo[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">As Gregory Kavka has persuasively …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the state of nature.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, to escape this violence in the state of nature, we form a social contract to protect ourselves and everyone must give power to a centralized government. **Hobbes[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Lastly**__,__**</span>**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;"> the agreement …</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">besides, his SUBJECT.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the agreed upon social norms cannot apply in all situations. The government does not have the ability to respond to all situations. Such imminent situations call for self-defense. **Gauthier[[home#_ftn5|[5]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Now I think Fletcher …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">protection of the law.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> an individual may never give up the means to self-preservation as it is the very foundation of the social contract in the first place. **Hobbes**</span>



**__<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Not All Rights …</span>__**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">were to be interpreted.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the affirmative burden is to prove that domestic violence is immanent while the negative must prove that it is not.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, prefer this ethical interpretation for two more reasons</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Only a system of ethics which correlates to the desires of actual people has legitimacy since having a reason necessarily entails that you have a concern or desire relating to that reason in the first place. **Goldman[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">All internalists about</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">defense it can offer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, only a system in which actors come together and agree upon a social contract makes sense. Actors need to be motivated themselves to form maxims, they cannot just conform to the moral law that exists independent of the agreements they make. **<span style="color: #000000;">Zupančič[[home#_ftn7|[7]]]</span>**</span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">What is inadmissible is ….achieves its determination</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. </span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The my sole contention is that victims of domestic abuse have no other option than resorting to deadly force.</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) **Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The government is ineffective at protecting victims from their abusers. Even if the victim manages to secure a restraining order their safety is far from certain. **Burke**</span>[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Even if someone does …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> no safe options.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">249</span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">:</span>**



**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The victim be- lieves …</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> ex- tensive safety planning.9</span>



<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) **Psychological barriers**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The psychological violence done against spouses creates an image of themselves in which they have nowhere to run. It seems violence could erupt again at any moment. **The Supreme Court of Kansas in State v. Hundley[[home#_ftn10|[10]]]**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Wife beating is steeped …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> from the torture.</span>__**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Victims often believe their abuser when they promise that they will change. This means they cannot act until the threat is about to occur. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[home#_ftn11|[11]]]</span>



**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The batterer’s promises … an inconsequential incident.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cultural Barriers</span>**



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Many victims don’t seek help from abuse because of real and perceived societal barriers in terms of race and culture. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>**[[home#_ftn12|**[12]**]]



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Cultural defenses may … use and success rates.13</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D) Financial Barriers. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: justify;">Women often cannot leave their abuser because of financial dependency.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinez</span>**[[home#_ftn13|**[13]**]]
</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Another brick in …</span>__**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px; text-align: justify;">housing, exposure to drugs, gangs, etc.  </span>






----
[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Blacks Law Dictionary. 2nd Edition.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">(1962))[[http://www.legalupdateonline.com/4th/140]]. Model Penal Code.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">MASSIMO RENZO STATE LEGITIMACY AND SELF-DEFENCE (Accepted 4 May 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]] Thomas Hobbes. </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8px;">Leviathan.Kindle Edition. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]] David Gauthier –[ Department of Philosophy, University of Pittsburgh.]1996 The University of Pittsburgh Law Review. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. [SELF-DEFENSE AND RELATIONS OF DOMINATION: MORAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES ON BATTERED WOMEN WHO KILL: SELF-DEFENSE AND THE REQUIREMENT OF IMMINENCE: COMMENTS ON GEORGE FLETCHER'S DOMINATION IN THE THEORY OF JUSTIFICATION AND EXCUSE]. 57 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 615</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]] “</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Reason Internalism.” </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Alan H. Goldman. //Philosophy and Phenomenological Research//</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Vol. 71, No. 3 (Nov., 2005), pp. 505-532. Published by: </span><span style="color: #1e4575; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ips|International Phenomenological Society]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">. Article Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/40040883]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Zupančič, Alenka. //Ethics of the Real: Kant, Lacan//. London: Verso, 2000. Print. AS</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftnref|[8]]] Alafair S. Burke [Associate Professor, Hofstra University School of Law. B.A., Reed College; J.D., Stanford Law School] Rational Actors, Self-Defense, and Duress: Making Sense, not Syndromes, out of the Battered Woman. 2002. North Carolina Law Review – Volume 81. Pg 270</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftnref|[9]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8px;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8px;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftnref|[10]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=7172490382886741520&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr]]. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">STATE OF KANSAS, Appellee, v. BETTY HUNDLEY, Appellant. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">No. 56,244. Opinion filed January 11, 1985.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[home#_ftnref|[11]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8px;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8px;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[[home#_ftnref|[12]]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8px;">co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8px;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[[home#_ftnref|[13]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12px;">Jeri Martinez [Domestic Violence Victim Advocate at Washington County State's Attorney] “HOSTAGES IN THE HOME: Domestic Violence Seen Through Its Parallel, The Stockholm Syndrome” AK</span>

===Evolution AC=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">value is morality</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Inquiring about the nature of the good life for the moral subject is the only way to circumvent the is-ought fallacy that plagues rationalistic moral theory. Alasdair MacIntyre:</span>

Alasdair MacIntyre [Emeritus Prof. of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame], After Virtue, 3rd Edition, Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press (2007), p. 56-59

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Some later moral… a functional concept.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the resolution asks what principle is most salient to our moral identities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means the only constant about what constitutes a “good” human is one that seeks self-preservation. West</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">http://www.discovery.org/a/9541. Discovery Institute — Center for Science and Culture. “DOES DARWINISM SUPPORT TRADITIONAL MORALITY?.” May 1, 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However, before one…. as morally blameworthy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My only burden is to demonstrate that deadly force is justified as self-defense against repeated abuse.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">self-preservation is the basis of ethics.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, there is no faculty that perceives moral facts in the physical world. Mackie</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">J.L Mackie. Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong Chapter 1 “The subjectivity of Values”. Page 38.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Even more important… compelled to resort.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All ethical codes and systems can be explained by evolutionary mechanism. Rauscher</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“How a Kantian Can Accept Evolutionary Metaethics.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=FREDERICK+RAUSCHER|FREDERICK RAUSCHER]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/|BIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY]]</span>. 1996. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/12/3/|Volume 12, Number 3]]</span>, 303-326.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The fourth application… mechanisms and behaviors.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This means that the only reason that humans make arguments for ethics and believe them is because evolution has caused them to and ethics does not exist independent of that.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, only evolutionary theory explains the structure of justifications.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ratner explains how all justification traces back to evolutionary theory and analyzes the structure of human justification.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Leonard G. Ratner, “THE UTILITARIAN IMPERATIVE: AUTONOMY, RECIPROCITY, AND EVOLUTION,” Hofstra Law Review (Spring, 1984)--Legion Lex Professor of Law, University of Southern California Law Center.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The process thus… or future survival.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that using deadly force best solves for domestic violence and promotes the survival of the victim.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">A) Risk Of Death: </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Silent Witness National Initiative provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">http://www.silentwitness.net/sub/violences.htm. 2006.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Female murder victims… and aggravated assaults.</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">B) Domestic Violence is not effectively prevented by the state</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Cohen provides 5 warrants for why the criminal justice system fails to stop domestic violence</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Jane Maslow Cohen [Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law].</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It is not difficult… means of escape.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">C) Running away does not solve the problem. This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Buel</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">The victim be- lieves… tensive safety planning</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Johnson further supports Buel with multiple other studies and provides analytic warrants.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Michael P. Johnson. –</span><span style="color: #463c3c; font-family: Calibri;"> [Michael P. Johnson (Ph.D., University of Michigan) is Emeritus Professor of Sociology, Women’s Studies, and African and African American Studies at Penn State, where he taught sociology and women’s studies for over thirty years and was designated an Alumni Teaching Fellow, Penn State’s highest teaching award. He is an internationally recognized expert on domestic violence, invited to speak at conferences and universities throughout the United States and around the world.] </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The feminist analysis… those still married</span>

==[[#January-February-Negative]]<span style="font-size: 33.6px;">[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
==[[#January-February-Nagel NC]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nagel NC</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The resolution asks if the use of deadly force is morally permissible. This is a question about the legitimacy of an action not about the responsibility of the actor. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Value judgments of an action cannot be separated from the subjective perspective from which it is taken. **Nagel**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">In the pursuit of this goal, … subjective grasp as well.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus we must maintain a consistency between our objective and subjective perspectives on the world in order to have a consistent and logically sound perspective. However to intend harm forces an agent to adopt a normative goal subjectively that conflicts with their objective statement of value. **Nagel 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">So far this ….</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of this restriction.6</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My sole contention is that deadly force intends to harm an individual. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The US Model Penal Code[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] defines deadly force as "**__Force that … serious bodily injury.__**" </span>
=Levinas NC= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Calibri; text-align: left;">I value **morality** as implied by the resolution</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Inquiry into the nature of the moral subject precedes all other ethical deliberation. Ethics is a question of who we are rather than abstract ruminations on the metaphysical status of moral propositions. **Butler[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** explains how failure to attend to this process can not only render our moral assertions meaningless but also leads to false conclusions.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">What perhaps emerges... </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> at what cost?”</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">However,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;"> a sound basis for ethics requires a coherent understanding of the Other. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings. **Wood[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">There </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri;">the transcendental... possible at all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, the negative burden is to prove that a proper understanding of a relationship to the Other necessitates a ban on killing.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">I contend that the actions of the other do not disavow us of an encounter with the face of the other. The face of the Other is inviolable.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> Butler 2</span>**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">More importantly, this... hear "social justice." </span>



----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Judith Butler [Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at University of California at Berkeley], __Giving an Account of Oneself__, New York: Fordham University Press (2005), MO p. 90-92</span>
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[2] </span><span style="color: #1d1d1d; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span>
<span style="color: #1f2734; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Judith Butler [Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at University of California at Berkeley], __Giving an Account of Oneself__, New York: Fordham University Press (2005), p. 135-136</span>

==7 Layer Salad NC== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 1 IS THE THESIS</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">My thesis is that morality is a tool of oppression. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 2 IS THE SOCIAL ROOTS OF MORALITY</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Morality has historically been used as a tool of oppression. Altruistic actions have no basis in morality but instead are defined by those in power to bend others to their will. **Nietzsche[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">All honour, then… of equal value.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche 2[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> continues on the etymological roots of the word “good”</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">The guidepost which… volcanoes have spoken.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">society always appeals to the elites to determine what constitutes morality, which they frame to benefit themselves while systematically ignoring the lower class. **Turiel[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martin Luther King’s… quenched dissenting voices’ [p. 290].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 3 IS THE SUBJECTIVE NATURE OF MORALITY</span>**

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Keller[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]] </span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">explains that morality is necessarily based upon subjective beliefs because the view that there are arguments any rational person would believe undermines its own legitimacy and requires a “view from no-where” to objectively determine facts.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Calibri;">Is there anything wrong… to bow to.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the nature of language allows us to interpret moral rules in any way we wish. The way we learn what moral rules mean is based off of customs taught to us making it impossible for us to say that one interpretation is right or wrong. **Wittgenstein[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">197. "It's as if… one is right?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 4 IS THE POLITICAL CONSTRUCTION OF MORALITY</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If morality bears this subjective element, then people interacting in society create an equilibrium that represents shared moral principles. It is these principles that determine how morality actually works. **Gaus[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If reasonably goodwilled… //making// it true.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The morality that society has produced is primarily concerned with maintaining the power structures that exist between social groups. **Grimes[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Party Time suggests… of established society."2 </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral obligations are used to justify the worst atrocities in history, even against personal revulsion. Nothing else but such a strong conviction could lead men to slaughter. **Johnson[[home#_ftn8|**[8]**]]** describes the Nazi slaughter of Jews and how it was based in moralizing discourse</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Some Jews hid… of the Party’.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 5 IS OBJECTIVE MORALITY</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Even if they win that morality is not subjective, objective morality is self-defeating.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A focus on rules and labels distracts from examination of content. Morality becomes a set of criteria that we mindlessly calculate how our actions fit into without ever thinking about what we’re saying. We see this all the time, people take moral rules and because they are generalized vague principles don’t understand what is required. People invoke draconian moral rules to justify ignoring the homeless person on the street or bombing abortion clinics. We shouldn't just say that something is permissible and act on it because we stop examining what the content of so-called “moral actions” is. **Arendt[[home#_ftn9|**[9]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">However, non-thinking, which… the same phenomenon.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">PART 6 IS MAN USES MORALITY TO SUBJUGATE WOMEN</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Finally</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, objective or subjective interpretations of morality would descriptively negate because morality is a tool used by men to subjugate women. Appeals to moralistic discourse invite oppression of women. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AWID[[home#_ftn10|**[10]**]]</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Discriminatory laws and… and biological reproduction.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Here are some examples of what I’m talking about:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hardline conservatives have been using moral discourse to wage a war on women and the non-moral discourse that was used to construct their rights in the first place. **Martin[[home#_ftn11|**[11]**]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First, let me… since the mid-1960s.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Middle-eastern countries invoke moral and social norms to subjugate and oppress women**. Eltahawy[[home#_ftn12|**[12]**]]** provides the empirical example of Saudi Arabia</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Enter that call… education system writ large.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Eltahawy 2[[home#_ftn13|**[13]**]] continues </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">giving the examples of Tunisia and Libya</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This, however, is… took them back.</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Nietzsche, Friedrich Wilhelm, and Walter Arnold. Kaufmann. //On the Genealogy of Morals.// New York: Vintage, 1967. Print.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Nietzsche, Friedrich Wilhelm, and Walter Arnold. Kaufmann. //On the Genealogy of Morals.// New York: Vintage, 1967. Print.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Turiel, Elliot [UC Berkeley Graduate School of Education] //Cultural Practices, Oppression, and Morality,// Human Development 1998;41:166–171. MO.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Keller, Timothy J. //The Reason for God: Belief in an Age of Skepticism//. New York: Dutton, 2008. Print.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">PHILOSOPHICAL INVESTIGA TIONS.” LUDWIG WITTGENSTEIN. Translated by G. E. M. ANSCOMBE. Copyright © Basil Blackwell Ltd 1958. BG.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Gaus, Gerald. 2011 //The Order of Public Reason: A Theory of Freedom and Morality in a Diverse and Bounded World.// Cambridge University Press. MO. Pg 416</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> G</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">rimes, Charles. 2005. [Assistant professor of English and Theater at St. Leo University] //Harold Pinter’ Politics: A Silence Beyond Echo.// Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, Google Books, MO. Pg 31-32.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Paul Johnson [English journalist, historian, speechwriter and author of over 40 historical books; recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2006], __A History of the Jews__. New York: Harper & Row Publishers (1987), pg. 495 JE</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Hannah Arendt, "Personal Responsibility Under Dictatorship", Responsibility and Judgment, Random House, 2003. p. 44-45, AT/MO</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Association for Women’s Rights in Development, 21 Oct 2011, //Sexual And Reproductive Rights: More Than Just Health//. MO. </span><span style="color: #0739c8; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.awid.org/News-Analysis/Friday-Files/Sexual-and-Reproductive-Rights-More-than-Just-Health]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Martin, Vincent. </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The War on Women: A Progressive Man’s View. 9 April 2012.. “The Feminist Wire” MO. </span> [[http://thefeministwire.com/2012/04/the-war-on-women-a-progressive-mans-view/|**http://thefeministwire.com/2012/04/the-war-on-women-a-progressive-mans-view/**]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref12|[12]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">ELTAHAWY, Mona –[ **Mona Eltahawy is an award-winning columnist and an international public speaker on Arab and Muslim issues. She is based in New York. She is a columnist for Canada's Toronto Star, Israel's The Jerusalem Report and Denmark's Politiken. Her opinion pieces have been published frequently in The Washington Post and the International Herald Tribune and she has appeared as a guest analyst in several media outlets. Before she moved to the U.S. in 2000, Ms Eltahawy was a news reporter in the Middle East for many years, including in Cairo and Jerusalem as a Reuters correspondent and she reported for various media from Egypt, Israel, Palestine, Libya, Syria, Saudi Arabia and China. Ms Eltahawy was the first Egyptian journalist to live and to work for a western news agency in Israel.]**. "Foreign Policy Magazine." //Foreign Policy//. May-June 2012. Web. <http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/23/why_do_they_hate_us>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref13|[13]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">ELTAHAWY, Mona –[ **Mona Eltahawy is an award-winning columnist and an international public speaker on Arab and Muslim issues. She is based in New York. She is a columnist for Canada's Toronto Star, Israel's The Jerusalem Report and Denmark's Politiken. Her opinion pieces have been published frequently in The Washington Post and the International Herald Tribune and she has appeared as a guest analyst in several media outlets. Before she moved to the U.S. in 2000, Ms Eltahawy was a news reporter in the Middle East for many years, including in Cairo and Jerusalem as a Reuters correspondent and she reported for various media from Egypt, Israel, Palestine, Libya, Syria, Saudi Arabia and China. Ms Eltahawy was the first Egyptian journalist to live and to work for a western news agency in Israel.]**. "Foreign Policy Magazine." //Foreign Policy//. May-June 2012. Web. <http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/04/23/why_do_they_hate_us>.</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]