[[toc]]
=Heidegger= 

==1NC== 

**They utilize depictions of the environment and the economy** **as a means to further their plan – this creates the world as standing reserve and legitimizes endless genocide – the only way to escape this cycle is to __vote negative to affirm the infinite value of all forms of Being__**
**Introna 9 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” //Theory, Culture & Society// 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the ethics of hybrids </span><span class="Underline">our ethical relationship… …towards an ethos of letting-be of all beings.</span>

==<span class="Underline">2NC Overview</span>== 

**The question of this debate is one of competing ontologies. The affirmative staked out an ontology of calculative thinking. A competing ontology is the meditative thinking of the alt. As long as we leave their thought unquestioned we are doomed to the ethos of mastery – the alt is the only way out**
**Scheibler 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ingrid Scheibler, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, Boston College, //76 Chi.Kent. L. Rev. 853,// 2000, pp. 862-864) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When </span>Heidegger<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thematizes the Being question … …the genesis and effects of environmental degradation. n31</span>

**The rise of the technology of modernity results in an alienating relationship to the world – this destroys life’s meaning**
**Dreyfus 92**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—professor of philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley, PhD from Harvard (Hubert L, "Heidegger on the Connection between Nihilism, Technology, Art and Politics" Cambridge Companion to Heidegger, Charles Guignon, Ed., Cambridge University Press, 1992, RBatra)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Kierkegaard thought that </span>__the answer to nihilism … …**the public world contains no guidelines.**__

==AT: Perm== 

**<span style="color: black;">3. Perm can’t solve – incorporating technological thought allows it to dominate and coopt the alternative</span>**
**Foltz 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruce V. Foltz, Inhabiting the Earth: Heidegger, Environmental Ethics, and the Metaphysics of Nature, 1995, p. 166.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But what, after all, does Heidegger's understanding of … …whether it is founded on the poetic.</span>

**And, __quick-fix disad__ – tech thought mandates specific solutions that ignores consequences and guarantees error replication – only rejecting the problem-solution mindset solves**
**McWhorter 92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ladelle, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies at Richmond, Heidegger and the earth: Essays in environmental philosophy, Thomas Jefferson University Press, pp. 2-3)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow;">Our usual response to such prophecies of doom </span>… … current thinking that must be allowed to dissipate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==AT: Framework== 

**The K is an impact turn – they try to take a privileged stance to bracket off what debate should be – this system of enframing is the essence of calculative thought and ensures error replication – only our alternative can allow for true politics**
**Korous** **97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Copeland winner, JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Yale Law Graduate, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)</span>

__The thought that inhabits critique is not … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">stockpiles of potential energy waiting to be unleashed.</span>

**And, here’s an external impact – calculative ontologies make endless warfare inevitable – only we create a genuine form of politics**
**Burke 7 –**Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, Theory & Event, 10:2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This essay describes firstly </span>__the ontology__ __… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">next war is seen as a natural phenomenon, like tomorrow's sunrise.'</span> [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html#_edn22|22]]

**And, ontology determines political action – analysis of it must come first**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Dillon; Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster; Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics; 97-99]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Heidegger</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">—himself an especially revealing figure … …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">has begun to come under sustained scrutiny.</span>


==AT: Case Outweighs== 

**Wrong – K outweighs nuclear war, this is comparative – only the alt solves**
**<span style="color: black;">Rojcewicz 6</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University, Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heidegger now launches an extended discussion of the danger … …</span><span class="Underline"> their self-blindness would make them slaves.</span>

**3. They don’t have a case – technological thought ensures that solvency is impossible, that’s McWhorter – only by embracing the alt can you solve the case**
**Korous** **97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Copeland winner, JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Yale Law Graduate, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)</span>

__The thought that inhabits critique is not … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">stockpiles of potential energy waiting to be unleashed.</span>

==AT: Calc Thought Inevitable== 

**Doesn’t assume the alt – by refusing action through contemplation we can escape cycles of calculative thought and embrace meditative thought – that’s Scheibler – here’s more evidence**
<span class="Underline">**Stramignoni 3** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Igor Stramignoni, Prof. London School of Economic and Political Science – Department of Law, San Diego International Law Journal, 2003 pg. Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are here two main points which Heideggermakes … …</span><span class="Underline"> of today's philosophical (or other) calculating thinking. n32</span>

**It’s try or die – no matter the feasibility of the alt it’s the only option**
**Wolcher 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Louis E. Wolcher, Professor of Law, University of Washington School of Law, Washington Law Review, February 2004 pg. LEXIS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marx once uttered the profound truth that </span><span class="Underline">"</span>we have … …universal human emancipation is mythological and "unrealistic."


==<span style="text-decoration: none;">Link - Heg</span>== 

<span class="Underline">**The Affirmative’s defense of American power creates the conditions for oppression and devastation—all beings become subject to violent calculation and planning** </span>
**Polt 7**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—PhD from U Chicago, Professor and Chair, Philosophy and Honors Program, at Xavier University </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Richard, © 2007, //Interpretation//, “Beyond Struggle and Power: Heidegger’s Secret Resistence,” [[http://www.interpretationjournal.com/backissues/Vol_35-1.pdf]], RBatra)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Heidegger now develops an extensive interpretation of this essence … … so-called “struggle” is only the evasion of the “questionability of be-ing” (GA 66, 141). </span>

**The problem-solution mindset of hegemony** **necessitates continual construction of enemies and the creation of a permanent state of conflict, making their impacts inevitable**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ira </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chernus</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 53-54)</span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The end of the cold war spawned a</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> tempting </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">fantasy </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">likely it is to believe and enact the neocon story</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>


==<span style="text-decoration: none;">Link - Missile Defense</span>== 

**Missile Defense comes of threat construction originally created to reify the American identity of normality, and is described through harsh security rhetoric that de-legitimizes the other**
**Bormann ‘6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (Natalie, PhD International Politics and Philosophy University of Edinburgh, //__National Missile Defence and the Politics of US Identity,__// Manchester University Press, 2006, Pg. 3-4 Sussman)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When proposing to </span><span class="Underline">analyse the discursive articulations … …</span>normality and deviance<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., through medical practices).</span>


**Reports of China and Russia development are taken out of context; accidental launch is less likely than an asteroid, interpreting it any more plays into fear politics**
**Bormann ‘6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Natalie, PhD International Politics and Philosophy University of Edinburgh, //__National Missile Defence and the Politics of US Identity,__// Manchester University Press, 2006, Sussman)</span>

The influence of 'what if' statements and … …the hypothetical case of an accidental launch?


=Cap= 

==1NC== 

**Space exploration is merely an outlet for the state to expand its capitalist grip – infinite wars will be fought over new resources – also their advantages are made up and/or inevitable in capitalism**
**<span style="color: black;">Dickens 9</span>****<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Peter Dickens is an Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies, University of Cambridge. He is also Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex. Originally trained as an architect at the University of Cambridge, he was Lecturer then Senior Lecturer and Reader in Sociology at the University of Sussex between 1973 and 1999. He returned to Cambridge in 1999 as Fellow and Director of Studies in Social and Political Sciences at Fitzwilliam College, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The imminent conquest of outer space raises the question … … ‘fix’ may</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> well </span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 10pt;">be</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of a </span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 10pt;">temporary</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, sticking-plaster, variety. </span></span>

**Cap is bad – p****rolonging the collapse of the system causes nuclear war, racism, extreme poverty, patriarchy, and environmental destruction that will end in our extinction.**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Brown</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;">, Charles [Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan] May 13th 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 11pt;">5</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif;"> (http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The capitalist class owns the factories… … remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**Alternative: Vote negative to endorse the specific criticism of capitalism that is the 1NC.**

**The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy which solves your aff**
**Carroll 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria, Research Associate with the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, associate editor of the journal Socialist Studies, and a member of Sociologists Without Borders, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction… …(De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

==2NC Overview== 

**And, alt doesn’t preclude the case but it’s a prerequisite to solving the link****<span style="color: black;">Dickens and Ormrod 7 -</span>**<span style="color: black;">*Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton** </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter and James, </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">pg </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">190, dml)</span>**

Alternatively**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, rather than being founded on the interests of capital… …NASA and the European Space Agency (Gray 2007).</span>

==Links== 

===Environment=== 

Environmental reformism is merely a band-aid for capitalism – they keep it going indefinitely
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Paul </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sweezy</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Founding Editor, Monthly Review; renowned Marxist economist, 20</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">04</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, “Capitalism and the Environment,” http://www.monthlyreview.org/1004pms3.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Such is the inner nature, the essential drive … …and its progeny for millennia to come.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Single issue-reforms are destined to fail—environmental problems are too global and inter-related—only addressing capitalism can save us. </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Foster, Clark, and York,</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> 0</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (John Bellamy Foster, editor of Monthly Review and professor of sociology at the University of Oregon. Brett Clark, assistant professor of sociology at North Carolina State University. Richard York, coeditor of Organization & Environment and associate professor of sociology at the University of Oregon. “Ecology: The Moment of Truth - An Introduction.” July 2008. http://www.monthlyreview.org/080701foster-clark-york.php)</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The principal environmental problem for Speth then is capitalism as … …</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> confront an ecological rift that is now as wide as the planet.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">K Aff/Single Movements</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Single-issue movements will be co-opted by capitalism—only complete structural challenges have any hope. </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Meszaros, 95</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Istivan, professor emeritus at the University of Sussex, //Beyond Capital//, pg. 39-40)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To aggravate the situation, everything is further complicated … …</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> their common cause for the survival of humanity. </span>

people do experience oppression every day and it is real – failing to recognize this allows the system to satisfy demands on grounds of formal equality, destroying attempts to overcome it

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gimenez 1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Prof. Sociology at UC Boulder,Martha, “Marxism and Class; Gender and Race”, Race, Gender and Class, Vol. 8, p. online: <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.colorado.edu/Sociology/gimenez/work/cgr.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are many competing theories of race, gender, class</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, American society… … __social interactions grounded in "intersectionality" is class power__.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The aff misidentifies reality – the supposed destruction of anthropocentrism does not free us, but rather traps us within capital – while the aff believes that ideology structures reality, capital already structures that structuring in the first place.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Louis </span><span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Althusser</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Marxist philosopher; Professor of Philosophy, Ecole Normale Superieure, 19</span><span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">70</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, “Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses,” http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/althusser/1970/ideology.htm, web paging</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ideology Is a 'Representation' of the Imaginary Relationship … … For the moment I shall go no further.</span>
==AT: Perm== 

**If we win a link it means the perm fails – have to maintain a solely critical standpoint**
**<span style="color: black;">Dickens and Ormrod 7 -</span>**<span style="color: black;">*Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton** </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter and James, </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">pg </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">148, dml)</span>**

Sociologists should not construct themselves … …it will offer nothing if it does not do so critically**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">capitalism is an inertial system—any vestige left remaining by the permutation will inevitably spin back up</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kovel</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Alger Hiss Prof. At Bard) 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Joel, The Enemy of Nature, Zed Books, p. 142-3]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The value-term that subsumes everything into the spell ……</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of greater concentration, expanded profitability — and greater ecodestruction</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.</span>



=<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Breila</span>= 


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1NC</span>== 


**Their description of outer space as a zone that must be controlled by America is necessarily a discursive construct that allows for the violent imposition of forced borders onto space and securitization by the sovereign power**

**Grondin 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Assistant Professor in American Studies and Global Politics, University of Ottawa, “US Governmentality and Exceptionalism in Outer Space: The (Violent) Virtual Production of Enemies and Borders in Outer Space,” paper presented at the ISA Convention in San Francisco, March 25th 2008, dml)</span>



<span class="Underline">So, </span>when it comes to outer space<span class="Underline">, how is space produced </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span><span class="Underline">allows it exercise power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – to govern – </span><span class="Underline">at a distance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Security discourse justifies endless genocide**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 2K</span>__**—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is … …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> that </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">can scarcely be done without</span>____<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span>__</span>



**Hold 1AC impact claims suspect due to their unquestioning assumption of borders– the wars they isolate are a product of individuals transformed into abstractions leading to endless violence – assigning space to fit western interests guarantees targeting of the other**

**__Gregory__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof geography @ U British columbia </span>**__5__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Derek, “The role of geography in public debate” Eds Alex Murphy Prog Hum Geogr 2005 29: 165)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, to return to the original question: what kind of geography … …</span>__can yield to a truly progressive human geography.__



**<span style="color: black;">The alternative is to vote negative – critiquing their security representations is key to emancipatory politics</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>**__Neocleous__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘</span>**__8__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Critique of Security, 185-6]</span>



<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The only way out</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> of such a dilemma</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">be brave enough to return the gift.”' </span>__</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1NC V2</span>== 


**Their description of outer space as a zone that must be controlled by America is necessarily a discursive construct that allows for the violent imposition of forced borders onto space and securitization by the sovereign power**

**Grondin 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Assistant Professor in American Studies and Global Politics, University of Ottawa, “US Governmentality and Exceptionalism in Outer Space: The (Violent) Virtual Production of Enemies and Borders in Outer Space,” paper presented at the ISA Convention in San Francisco, March 25th 2008, dml)</span>



<span class="Underline">So, </span>when it comes to outer space<span class="Underline">, how is space produced </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span><span class="Underline">allows it exercise power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – to govern – </span><span class="Underline">at a distance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Security discourse justifies endless genocide**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 2K</span>__**—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On



<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is … …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> that </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">can scarcely be done without</span>____<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span>__</span>


<span class="Underline">**Allowing the sovereign state to draw the lines** </span>**legitimizes infinite violence against the other in order to heal the empire**

**Slotkin, 85** (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)



__This ideology of savage war has become … …America is an exceptionally violent society__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



**The alternative is to rethink space exploration as a global human enterprise – reverse the need to infinitely expand unilaterally and instill public dialogue into space policy discussions**

**Billings, 6** (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” IASTS 21st Annual Conference, February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD, [[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]])



__Facing an opportunity to envision a new… …why we should be going into space__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Rejection of their securitizing representations is key**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>**__Neocleous__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘</span>**__8__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Critique of Security, 185-6]</span>



<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The only way out</span>____<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> of such a dilemma</span>____<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span>____<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">be brave enough to return the gift.”' </span>__</span>



==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AT: Case Outweighs</span>== 


**Their impacts are only constructed, not existential threats, and empirics prove they are self-fulfilling – this card is kind of fantastic**
**Grondin 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Assistant Professor in American Studies and Global Politics, University of Ottawa, “US Governmentality and Exceptionalism in Outer Space: The (Violent) Virtual Production of Enemies and Borders in Outer Space,” paper presented at the ISA Convention in San Francisco, March 25th 2008, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fuelled by the strategic context of the War on Terror… …</span><span class="Underline">seriously pursue such technology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hitchens, 2003: 22).</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AT: Framework</span>== 


**Analysis of discourse must precede analysis of policy – it’s key to understand both how policies are formulated and how to accurately respond to them without error replication – discourse necessarily shapes the ways policies are viewed and thought of meaning they are tied to what they said in the 1AC**
**Adams 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, Centre for Educational Studies, University of Hull, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With such concerns, and many others … …</span><span class="Underline">the subject is said to exercise agentic action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**And, in the context of the topic this is particularly true – the politics surrounding outer space only come into being through discourse**
**Griffith 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Penny, Department of Politics @ University of Bristol, “The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space,” paper prepared for the ISA conference in San Diego, 2006, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">This</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> paper </span><span class="Underline">examines outer space as a discursive realm</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">… …innovative marketing of new technology’ (ibid.).</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AT: No Alt Solvency/Cede the Political</span>== 


**Alt solves and overcomes their takeouts – alternative visions of the world create new forms of politics that avoid the terminal error replication they cause**
**Evans and Guillaume 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brad, lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds, and Laura, PhD in International Politics at Aberystwyth, “Deleuze and War: Introduction,” Theory and Event, Vol 13, Issue 3, Project Muse, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze’s work displays an intimate relationship … …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> claims to hold the key to universal truth.</span>__



==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Links</span>== 


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Get Off The Rock</span>=== 


**The rock isn’t gonna die – but only the elite will be able to get off it**

**Dickens and Ormrod 7 -***Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter and James, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pg 156-157</span>**,** dml)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, some sociologists have …. … and particular species and ecological systems.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dolman</span>=== 


**Dolman writes from a strategic viewpoint designed to increase America’s imperialist influence**
**MacDonald 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fraser, Lecturer in Human Geography @ School of Anthropology, Geography and Environmental Studies, The University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” Progress in Human Geography 31(5) (2007) pp. 592–615, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two things should now be clear… …relinquish them to a state willing and able to do so’ (Dolman, 2002: 37).</span>

**And, you prefer our evidence on this – only __we__ assume the consequences of extending American empire into space**
**Havercroft and Duvall 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, Ph.D. Minnesota) specializes in political theory. His primary research focus is on the historical transformation of sovereignty in the discourses of political philosophy from the 17th century to the present. He has also published essays grappling with conceptions of freedom, power, and sovereignty in early modern and contemporary political thought. His work has appeared in </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Constellations</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Review of International Studies</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and Raymond, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota, “Critical astropolitics: The geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty” From //Securing Outer Space,// pg. 45-47) RF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such scholarly work of </span>__critical geopolitics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …an entirely new mode of protection and security. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">China</span>=== 


**Chinese threat construction assumes a knowable and essentially violent Chinese Other—this Western lens makes militarization and conflict inevitable.**
**__Pan 4__** (Chengxin, IR @ Australian National University, "The 'China Threat' in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics," Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, vol. 29, no. 3 (2004)”)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Having examined how the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"China threat" literature</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">… …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">today than the future of post-Deng China,"</span>__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Frontier</span>=== 


**the affirmative’s unilateral expansion into space is a strategy to free the American empire of material constraints – this narrative justifies violent, infinite expansion through technology**
**Williamson, 87** (Ray, Office of Technology Assessment, United States Congress, “Outer Space as Frontier: Lessons for Today,” Western Folklore, October)

__Folklorists have a distinctive contribution to make … … resource wars and ecocatastrophes in our future__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">."7</span>

**Unilateral pursuit of the final frontier legitimizes infinite violence against the other in order to heal the empire**
**Slotkin, 85** (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)

__This ideology of savage war has become … … belief that America is an exceptionally violent society__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Mars</span>=== 


**Their discourse of Mars col being “necessary” is not neutral – it expands the imperialist state**
**Collis and Graham 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Senior Lecturer in Media and Communication in the Creative Industries Faculty, Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane, Australia AND **Director of the Institute for Creative Industries and Innovation and Professor in Culture and Communication at QUT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christy and Phil, “Political geographies of Mars: A history of Martian management”, MANAGEMENT & ORGANIZATIONAL HISTORY Vol 4(3): 247–261, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">‘Colonialism’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has a specific meaning here… … other than those of the European past.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Asteroids</span>=== 


**The aff’s narrative of technological salvation from the rock guarantees unchecked space militarization and biopolitical control – their asteroid data is __made up__ to justify militarization**
Felicity **Mellor 7**, Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space, Social Studies of Science 37: 499, http://sss.sagepub.com/content/37/4/499.full.pdf

Since the late 1980s, a small group of astronomers … …<span class="Underline"> civilian and defence scientists were mutually supportive</span>.

===Heg=== 

**The problem-solution mindset of hegemony** **necessitates continual construction of enemies and the creation of a permanent state of conflict, making their impacts inevitable**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ira </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chernus</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 200</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin, Published by Paradigm Publishers, ISBN 1594512752, p. 53-54)</span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The end of the cold war spawned a</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> tempting </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">fantasy </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">likely it is to believe and enact the neocon story</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

===Economy=== 

**Their economic representations are not objective – they’re a ploy for the state to secure all aspects of life**
**Neocleous, 6** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Mark, Professor in the Department of Politics and History at Brunel University “From Social to National Security: On the Fabrication of Economic Order” Security Dialogue 2006; 37; pdf, p. 376-380)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">Robert Pollard (1985: 13) has suggested that </span>****__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">‘the concept of “economic security”… …behind which lies a commitment to capital accumulation.</span>__**
===Environment=== 
**They treat****<span style="color: black;"> the environment as a security threat—this guarantees military interventions and collapse of the environment, only the alt solves</span>**

**<span style="color: black;"> Wæver</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">19</span>****<span style="color: black;">98</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ole is an IR prof at institute for political science, U Copenhagen. PhD in pol sci. “Securitization and Desecuritization,” On Security—Lipschutz,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz13.html]]</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years, </span>**presentation of environmental degradation <span class="Underline">… …not regressive security logic, </span>should be the basis for mobilization<span class="Underline">.</span>

===Space Mil=== 

**Space weaponization legitimizes securitization across the globe – the US becomes the world’s panopticon**
**Duvall and Havercroft 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Raymond, professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, and Jonathan, professor of Political Science at the University of Oklahoma, “Taking sovereignty out of this world: Space weapons and empire of the future”, Review of International Studies (2008) 34: 755-775, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span>space weapons will extend the capacity<span class="Underline"> … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> place it (back) in the extra-terrestrial.</span>

===Resources=== 

**Space provides an outlet for the state to expand its capitalist grip – infinite wars will be fought over new resources**
**Dickens 9 –** Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The imminent conquest of outer space raises…. …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of a </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">temporary</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, sticking-plaster, variety. </span></span>


===Resource Wars=== 

The affirmative’s naïve conception that environmental scarcity pre-ordains conflict relies on a bankrupt causal story that effaces agency in favor our structural determinism – it is not scarcity that produces conflict but the way we interpret it.
**__Hagman 5__** (Tobias, Doctoral candidate, Swiss Graduate School of Public Administration, “Confronting the Concept of Environmentally Induced Conflict”)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Furt</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">h</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">ermore,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">this property of relationship …. … relations between ecology, politics, and violence.</span>__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
===Soft Power=== 

Soft power is colonialism masked in rhetoric and values – the affirmative effaces the violence of the political context of soft-power’s emergence, guaranteeing it is nothing more than an imperialist tool
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bilgin and Elis 8</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Assistant Professor, Department of International Relations, Bilkent University, phd candidate, Department of International Relations, Ankara University, “Hard Power, Soft Power: Toward a More Realistic Power Analysis,” Insight Turkey Vol. 10 / No. 2 / 2008 pp. 5-20)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lukes understands the ‘third face of power’ … … and site(s) of production and expression.</span>__</span></span>



===North Korea=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Our framework is especially true in the context of their North Korea war impact– perceptions are distorted by hegemonic interests, which ultimately create these scenarios of conflict</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Shim, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Ph.D. Candidate at GIGA Institute of Asian Studies (David, “Hegemonization and Contestation of Discursive Hegemony: The Case of the Six-Party Talks in Northeast Asia”, Paper Prepared for Presentation at the 2008 ISA, Production, 2008, June 30th 2010, [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p253290_index.html|www.allacademic.com/meta/p253290_index.html]], KONTOPOULOS)</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Laclau and Mouffe’s (2001: chapter 2) concept of hegemony… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">problematizing North Korea took place even before an action was done.</span>

==Impacts== 

===Pre-emption=== 

**This logic of pre-emption destroys the distinction between friend and enemy and makes global genocide possible.**
**Whitehall 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Geoffrey, Professor of Political Science at Acadia University, “Pre-emption, Technology, and Fascism: Movement and Human Logistics”, [[http://www.mcrg.ac.in/Development/draft_Symposium/Geoffrey.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What </span>we are witnessing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">today is … …</span> becomes a kind of operating nihilism.

**And, pre-emption makes their impacts and extinction inevitable**
**Massumi 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">currently teaching at </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Université de Montréal</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, in the Communication Sciences Department, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”, Theory & Event 10:2, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">Deterrence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> takes over at the //end// of this same process… … will function on an entirely different plane.</span>

===Biopower=== 
**Biopolitics is the root of racism and genocide**
**Evans 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Brad Evans is Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations, “Foucault’s Legacy: Security, War, and Violence in the 21st Century,” Security Dialogue August 23, 2010 vol. 41 no. 4 413-433, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having established that the principal task set … … occupations </span><span class="Underline">is removed from the analytical arena.</span>

===Dee and Gee?!=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The militarization of space allows the state to extend full-spectrum dominance across the social sphere and exert fascist control over the population – this eventually leads to extinction and endless war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bonta 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, Associate Professor of Geography, Division of Social Sciences Delta State University, “The Multitude and its Doppelganger: An Exploration of Global Smooth Space”, ACME: An International E-Journal for Critical Geographies, 2009, 8 (2), 245-277, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And all these nomadic forces that rage across</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">… …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">commit suicide (thermonuclear exchanges no longer deferred?).</span>


===Nitchke=== 

**Their framework of control creates a hatred for life**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">James </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nietzsche</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's interpretations of security … …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> full of mistrust and evil experiences."</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 39</span>
**This outweighs**
**a. Insecurity and danger are inevitable – the attempt to control it only breeds violence**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">James</span> **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">98</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rapidity of </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">change in the international system</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… …bomb-site for a permanently electioneering elite.</span>
**b. The attempt to perfect the world destroys value to life**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Paul</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Saurette</span>**, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">PhD in Political Theory at Johns Hopkins University, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">96</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory”, Millenium Journal of International Studies, p. 3-6, umn-rks</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">According to Nietzsche, </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the philosophical foundation of a society </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">……</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">solely from the point of view of its interpretation.’</span>





=Space Militarism K= 

==1NC== 

The Affs framing of weaponization as inevitable is what makes it so – this securitization creates a self fulfilling prophecy
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columba </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peoples</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD and Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Bristol, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Assuming the Inevitable? Policy Perspectives on the Weaponization of Outer Space”, http://www.psa.ac.uk/journals/pdf/5/2008/Peoples.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, to what extent are we in, or approaching… …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> inevitable might be a start</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this direction. </span>


This drive for security in space destroys conventional military capabilities and causes Russia and China balancing
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nina </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tannenwald</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Watson Institute for International Studies, April 0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Law Versus Power on the High Frontier: The Case for a Rule-Based Regime for Outer Space”, Brown University, http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/tannenwald.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For several reasons, the first two scenarios … …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> at risk other U.S. interests in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 82</span>


Don’t buy their inevitability claims – US decisions will direct whether weaponization occurs or not
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nina </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tannenwald</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Watson Institute for International Studies, April 0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Law Versus Power on the High Frontier: The Case for a Rule-Based Regime for Outer Space”, Brown University, http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/tannenwald.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A final argument of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">space weapons supporters … …of U.S. leaders in the coming decade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 234</span>


Failure to prevent space weaponization causes extinction
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell et al</span>__** ’0**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1</span>__** (Gordon, Kevin Ayotte and David Cram Helwich, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at University of Pittsburgh, Teaching Fellows in the Department of Communications at University of Pittsburgh, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense #6, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A buildup of space weapons might begin … …</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> most destructive military conflict ever seen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Independently, their framing means we use our weapons to commit endless genocide
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 2K</span>__**—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at … …</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> initiative that </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">can scarcely be done without</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__</span>


Vote negative – in the context of militarization, __representations__ are key, refuse the weaponization of space
<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bormann 6</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Natalie Bormann, Visiting Assistant Professor in The Global Security Program at the Watson Institute at Brown University, 2006 ("The Lost Dimension? A Virilian Reading Of Outer Space Weaponization," Paper Presented At The Annual Meeting Of The International Studies Association, March 22nd-25th, Available Online via All Academic at http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/9/8/6/7/p98677_index.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roger Handberg once wrote that ‘</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space is first … …new modes of representations </span><span class="Underline">and perception. </span>


Independently, refuse to endorse their belief in violence as the solution
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Crews’ 94</span>__**Robin Crews Executive Director, Peace Studies Association, Working Paper 94-3, February, 1994. NONVIOLENT PEACEKEEPING: THE //ONLY// ALTERNATIVE

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I really don't want to sound too idealistic… …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> this method through logically or ethically</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2NC Overview== 

It also causes Russia and China balancing – that kills heg
Peter **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brookes</span>__**, Heritage Foundation senior fellow, 8/15/0**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span>__**, “An Alarming Alliance: Sino-Russian Ties Tightening”, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2005/08/an-alarming-alliance-sino-russian-ties-tightening, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These unprecedented </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">military exercises … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in addressing the burgeoning Sino-Russian entente.</span>


Weaponization collapses heg and deterrence – causes arms races and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nina </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tannenwald</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Watson Institute for International Studies, April 0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Law Versus Power on the High Frontier: The Case for a Rule-Based Regime for Outer Space”, Brown University, http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/tannenwald.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The choice between a competition for … … renew emphasis on doctrines of nuclear warfare</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 29 </span>

**Turns the aff – it spurs a use it or lose it mentality that destroys our space assets and creates a debris field**
**Hitchens and Samson 4 –** *Vice President of the Center for Defense Information AND **research associate at the Center for Defense Information
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa and Victoria, “Space-Based Interceptors: Still Not a Good Idea,” Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, pg 21-29, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Snowball Effect. </span>__The mere act of weaponizing … …would have a ripple effect on U.S. national security.__

==AT: Wep Inevitable== 

SECOND, we control impact uniqueness – momentum is towards cooperation, not weaponization
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huntley</span>__**, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies … … to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

==Link - Brilliant Pebbles== 

Brilliant pebbles triggers weaponization – breaks taboo
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nina </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tannenwald</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Watson Institute for International Studies, April 0</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Law Versus Power on the High Frontier: The Case for a Rule-Based Regime for Outer Space”, Brown University, http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/tannenwald.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Exacerbating the threat posed by space weapons … … “threat of force” in relations between states</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 218 </span>



=China Relations K= 

==1NC== 


**China’s rise is not militaristic – dealing with China through military strength makes effective engagement impossible – our decline is inevitable, it’s a question of how we face it**
**Swaine 11 –** Senior Associate in the Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “A Sustainable US-China Security Relationship,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://carnegieendowment.org/2011/10/06/sustainable-u.s.-china-security-relationship/5qpu]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Is there a growing rivalry? </span>China is now… <span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … willing to do on these different fronts. </span>

<span class="Underline">**China’s space program is defensive and there’s no impact – their evidence is tainted by Western bias – allowing for China’s rise creates peaceful cooperation which is the biggest internal link to space security** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Dellios 12 –** Associate Professor, Co-ordinator of International Relations at Bond University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rosita, “China and outer space”, Humanities & Social Sciences papers, Paper 571, [[http://epublications.bond.edu.au/hss_pubs/571]], dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">Although the US may perceive … …way</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> if the heavens are to reflect Chinese strategy on Earth. </span>

**Space cooperation is key to prevent escalatory nuclear war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is ... …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">… … likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Our alternative: reject the affirmative’s violent stance towards China.**

**This readjustment of foreign policy away from containment allows for a new bilateral framework that spills over – key to solve every existential threat**
**Cohen 9 –** former Secretary of Defense
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf]], dml)</span>

__The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over … … that require their cooperation. U.S.-China partnership, though not inevitable, is indispensable__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

==2NC Overview== 

**weaponization causes debris which destroys the aff’s satellites**
**Hitchens and Samson 4 –** Vice President of the Center for Defense Information AND research associate at the Center for Defense Information
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa and Victoria, “Space-Based Interceptors: Still Not a Good Idea,” Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, pg 21-29, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Snowball Effect. </span>__The mere act of weaponizing space … …would have a ripple effect on U.S. national security.__

==AT: Framework== 

**It’s a question of intentionality – the way they have rationalized the affirmative gets incorporated into the policymaking process**
**Hall 93 –** Krupp Foundation Professor of European Studies – Harvard University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, //Comparative Politics// 25.3, “Policymaking Paradigms, Social Learning, and the State”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Only in some cases, then, … … one-shot comparisons of policy across nations.65 </span>

**We are intricately tied to policymaking**
**Adams 11 –** Centre for Educational Studies, University of Hull
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">With such concerns, and many others in mind… …</span><span class="Underline"> the subject is said to exercise agentic action</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

==AT: Taiwan== 

**There’s no scenario for their impact – their evidence is outdated and doesn’t take economic integration or new political developments into account – this evidence assumes the PLA**
**Zhang 11** – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship”, Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332, dml)</span>

__Until May 2008, the Taiwan Strait … …warfare capabilities__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> to level the playing field. </span>


==AT: Weaponization Inevitable== 

**Obama is uniquely key**
**Zhang 11** – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship”, Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">As Kevin Narizny points out in his study of grand strategy… …</span>__control__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> and prevention of an arms race.” 45 </span>

**The Affs framing of weaponization as inevitable is what makes it so – this securitization creates a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columba </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peoples</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD and Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Bristol, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Assuming the Inevitable? Policy Perspectives on the Weaponization of Outer Space”, http://www.psa.ac.uk/journals/pdf/5/2008/Peoples.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">So, to what extent are we in, or approaching… …</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 10pt;"> inevitable might be a start</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in this direction. </span>

**Their discourse makes space war happen**
**Grondin 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Assistant Professor in American Studies and Global Politics, University of Ottawa, “US Governmentality and Exceptionalism in Outer Space: The (Violent) Virtual Production of Enemies and Borders in Outer Space,” paper presented at the ISA Convention in San Francisco, March 25th 2008, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Fuelled by the strategic context of the … … </span><span class="Underline">to seriously pursue such technology</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Hitchens, 2003: 22).</span>

==AT: PLA== 

**First – Chinese governmental structure 101 – the CCP makes the final decisions**
**Swaine 11 –** Senior Associate in the Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Michael, “China's Assertive Behavior—Part Three: The Role of the Military in Foreign Policy,” China Leadership Monitor No. 36, Winter 2011, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Despite its highly limited position of power … …and to restructure China’s defense industry complex. </span>


**China’s pursuing peace – new white paper**
**China Daily 12/29/11** – American news service reporting on China
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“China says to stick to peaceful use of outer space,” [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/usa/china/2011-12/29/content_14351286.htm|__http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/usa/china/2011-12/29/content_14351286.htm__]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">BEIJING - </span>__China adheres to a principle of peaceful development … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">white papers released in 2000 and 2006, respectively. </span>


**It’s not black and white – China has __multiple__ other interests in space that prevent an arms race – their authors are methodologically blind to these conclusions**
**Houpt 11 –** M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Danny, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Space theory and policy typologies in the field … …</span>__influence thinking on the space domain as a whole.__


==AT: Realism== 

**This goes negative – __if__ countries act to maximize their own security, __then__ US efforts to dominate space trigger an arms race because all states assume the worst**
**Zhang 11** – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship”, Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In both cases, </span>__Chinese security experts believe … … others have to take similar measures__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

==AT: Perm== 

**The perm includes the affirmative’s methodological construction of China as a threat – we can’t truly know China, their attempt to engage through hegemony and deterrence frames US-Sino relations within violent power structures**
**Pan 4** – Lecturer in International Relations at the School of International and Political Studies, Deakin University
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Chengxin, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, No. 3 (June-July 2004), pp. 305-331, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">At this point, </span>__at issue here is no longer … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> perspectives and hegemonic ambitions of U.S. foreign policy.</span>

**This means they can’t solve and guarantees conflict**
**Pan 4** – Lecturer in International Relations at the School of International and Political Studies, Deakin University
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Chengxin, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, No. 3 (June-July 2004), pp. 305-331, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">And yet, the real problem is that, </span>__so long as … …with but has to take full control of.__



=D&G= 

==State PIC== 

===1NC=== 
**We affirm the ontological strategy of the cyborg described in the 1AC as a means of political strategy but reject the use of a government based plan of action.**

**The 1AC simultaneously defends two interpretations of political strategy. There is a plan-oriented pragmatic strategy which surrounds the one sentence traditional plan text. There is also a bottom-up movement which takes the form of rhizomatic politics. We defend the micropolitical process as described and reject the goals-oriented form of politics which constructs the plan – micropolitics is sufficient to solve**
**Conley in 2006** (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the last few decades, </span>__<span style="color: black;">decolonisation</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, transportation</span>__<span style="color: black;">, and electronic … …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">every utopian scenario,</span> __<span style="color: black;">all identity is undone</span>____<span style="color: black;">.</span>__

**Disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism**
Deleuze and Guattari, 1987 [A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We come to the gradual realization that </span>the BwO is not <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at all </span>… …__and perceptions and I have believed in them."__

**Contention Two is the Net Benefits**
**Link 1 is the Fixidity of the Plan – Rhizomatic politics form possibilities but the plan is a certainty – regardless of the process which results in the plan, it stands as a transcendent monument to the future goals of the movement. Because the plan dictates what the possible outcomes of rhizomatic politics can and cannot be, it has already sacrificed the ability to think creatively which is necessary to overcome the states attempt at counter-revolution**
**Goddard in 2k6** (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What </span>__this type of radio achieved__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">most of all … …outline projections of societal change.” </span>

**Link 2- It’s basically a prisoners dilemma – the state will adapt and follow your politics. It is worthless to challenge the state in a race to control – they have the lead and will copy our strategies before they can become successful. Their political strategy is doomed to failure.**
**Dixit and Nalebuff 1993** (Avinash, John F. Sherrard University Professor of Economics at Princeton and Barry, Professor of economics and management at the yale school of organization and management. "Thinking Stategically")

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the ﬁrst four races in the 1983 America’s Cup ﬁnals… …</span> __also believe in the merits of their course.__

**Link Three is the Agency Trade-off DA: their focus on the government as the site for transformative politics trades-off with immediate micropolitical activism. Waiting for the rev to gain momentum ignores the power we already have to create change. Your role is to dismiss the promise of future change to affirm already existing struggles**
**Deleuze and Parnet 87** (Gilles and Claire, profs of philosophy: Dialogues II: p. 146-147)

__What characterizes our current situation is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> both </span>__… … revolutionary-becoming of people, at every level, in every place.__

**Link Four is Goals versus the Process - The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972,** Anti-Oedipus, 370-1

**__The codes and their signifiers__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the axiomatics and their structures… …</span>**__reach fulfillment as it proceeds-art as "experimentation.'__**

===2NC Overview=== 

**Focusing on the micropolitical is key to reengage agency**
Colebrook 2002 (Claire, Understanding Deleuze, Pg. xxxviii)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Human freedom became //the// problem... ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">__relations, effects, and organises our bodies.__</span>

**Instead of giving the Body without Organs a face and a purpose, we should strive to maintain its creative freedom. Affirming the free space created with the alternative is not a neutral act – we should learn from disconnected figure. The political strategy of the alternative understands that we should never reach a point of full separation, rather we should understand the possibility of complete freedom, and use those lessons to inform individual empowerment**
Ballantyne 2007 (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 34-37)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its most elemental state it is </span>__the 'body without organs'__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …</span> __lives in it, as a mollusc lives in its shell.__
===2NC Link Extensions=== 

**Our link argument has 3 parts. The first is one of fixidity. We cannot begin our engagement with politics via a pre-determined plan of action. This guts solvency and leaves us powerless to adapt to specific situations, turns the case**
Gilbert Et Al 2008 (Jeremy Gilbert, Éric Alliez, Claire Colebrook, Peter Hallward, Nicholas Thoburn - all have PhDs and whatever; "Deleuzian Politics? A Roundtable Discussion"; New Formations)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Claire: </span>__If you think about contemporary politics… …it has a notion of **redefinition that is inbuilt****.**__

**The second part of the link is visibility – once the state knows your plan of attack cooption is an inevitability. The only successful attacks against the state require invisible and unknowable challenges to state hegemony. Even if their politics could create change it would be rubber-stamped by the state and rendered always-already an empty signifier creating only enough change to be completely worthless. The visibility of the plan negates revolutionary potential.**
The Invisible Committee 2009 (an anonymous group of French intellectuals. The coming insurrection.)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a demonstration, a union member tears the … … illustrates why </span>__there’s such joy in being nobody.__

==Risk K== 

===1NC=== 

**The resolution asks us to encounter space – but what is the aff’s method for doing so?**

**Analyzing the way the aff encounters space, we find the 1AC is characterized by a telos of understanding. We agree that the world should be encountered through a lens of empiricism – however, the scenarios presented by the aff are not empirical. Reality is shaped by how we encounter it – resist the urge to encounter space through domination and mastery.**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sheehan 7 </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">-</span>Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” [[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The fact that</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Outer </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space has been a realm</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">… …represented by human activities beyond the Earth’s atmosphere</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. Xx</span>

**As an empiricist, you find the affirmative’s scenarios somewhat far-fetched. It is not that they are impossible, but given what you know about the world they do not seem plausible. In fact, it is the very specificity of their scenarios makes them mathematically improbable, and the emphasis in debate on specificity is a heuristic device that is the exact opposite of how risk should be assigned**
**Yudkowsky ‘4** “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks” Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic Draft of August 31, 2006

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conjunction fallacy Linda is 31 years old… … that could respond to any disaster.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">This way of thinking is a transmission of the bad affects of a system that is designed to organize what it means to be human and what it means for humans to be secure, how they should live, what they should think. You must resist the transmission of this melancholy at all costs, for it negates the pleasure of being alive</span>**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deleuze 87</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 61-62)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">When Spinoza says 'The surprising thing is the body … …</span>teaching to soul its life, not to save it.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This model of encounter destroys potentiality and locks us into dualistic modes of thought that stifle our ability to truly experience life. Instead of rationally mapping out space, we respond to the resolution by inviting the United States federal government on a plunge into the deep unknown of space beyond the mesosphere.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deleuze 87</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 54-56)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Why write, why have written about empiricism… … the painter, take the place of concepts.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact to this dualistic encounter is micro-fascistic political strategies which are the precondition for any macropolitical violence. This move to cede human agency to a transcendent conceptual apparatus at the molecular level is the worst sort of political engagement.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles and Felix, no quals, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 214-215, dml)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid … … cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span>



**What right do we have to close off the possibilities of our encounters with the resolution? Why should we determine what the resolution means, instead of allowing the resolution to determine what we mean?**

**We propose an encounter of wonder. Explore the potentiality of space. Reject their attempt to make the unknown knowable. Experience the pleasure of a precarious existence and find the world as if you are experiencing everything for the first time.**
**Deleuze 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 47-51)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Your secret can always be seen on your face … … the real always being put off until tomorrow.</span>__

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We must begin any analysis of the topic with engaging encounter. Endorsing mystery and unknowability allows us to resist militaristic and fascist mindsets.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sheehan 7 -</span>**</span>Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,”[[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span>

Introduction __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How should we think about space? … …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">from using astronautical research for military purposes.5</span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Embracing the impossibility of knowing space is the __precondition__ to politics – acknowledging wonder is the __utmost ethical priority__. The aff limits out the possibility of wondrous encounters and cannot accurately represent politics, while our critique is a prerequisite to action</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jones 9</span>**



<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel, University of Dundee, “On the Value of Not Knowing: Wonder, Beginning Again and Letting Be,” As presented at ‘On Not Knowing’, a Symposium hosted by Kettle’s Yard and New Hall College, Cambridge, 29th June 2009, to accompany the exhibition ‘Material Intelligence’, Kettle’s Yard, 16 May – 12 July 2009)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus described, </span>__wonder is the passion that can … …recommencing, of thinking again and beginning anew__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**The K comes first – we must recognize that our decisions on the micro-level are what determine macro-political action – failure to do so guarantees error replication**

**Read 8 –** Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the University of Southern Maine

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, “The Full Body: Micro-Politics and Macro-Entities”, review of DeLanda, Manuel (2006) A New Philosophy of Society: Assemblage Theory and Social Complexity, Deleuze Studies. Volume 2, Page 220-228, dml)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In response to this tendency, DeLanda makes … … constitute the individual to global networks.</span>

===2NC Overview=== 

**Even if they do win that their case ultimately does prevent some great catastrophe, you are an empiricist finding beauty in the flows of material and you should not be sentimental about organic life. The aff hasn’t offered a prior justification for caring about their brand of imminent catastrophe**
**De Landa 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Manuel, Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saas-Fee|Saas-Fee]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “A Thousand Years of Non-Linear History” pg 103-104, dml)</span>

__In the eyes of many__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">human beings, </span>__life … …transform us into a new batch of raw materials____.__

**We are more than just ourselves – the 1NC was an encounter with space that refuses to pin it down – we need a universe that does not need us – only by exploring the unknown can we appreciate the value we have become born into.**
Mary **Midgley**, retired Senior Lecturer in <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophy|Philosophy]]</span> at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newcastle_University|Newcastle University]]</span>, **2005**
[//The Essential Mary Midgley//p 373-378]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NOTE: this card is from a camp file and appears to be gender-edited – instances of the word “Humyn” likely replace the word “man”, and “herself” and “her” replace “himself” and “him” respectively</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">’ To deal with this, we need to understand adaptation… …</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">an essential condition of</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua;"> sanity</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

===2NC Alt=== 
**only accepting the fragility and unknowability of existence can allow us to break from ontologies that are at the root of conflict**
**Mazis 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Glen Mazis is Professor of Philosophy and Humanities @ Penn State, “Chaos Theory and Merleau-Ponty's Ontology: Beyond the Dead Father's Paralysis toward a Dynamic and Fragile Materiality” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.glenmazis.com/images/Merleau-Ponty_and_Chaos_Theory.doc|http://www.glenmazis.com/images/Merleau-PontyandChaosTheory.doc]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="Underline">If</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for the moment, </span><span class="Underline">we accept that … …</span>iterations smiling through the face of time<span class="Underline">.</span>
===AT: Cede the Political=== 

**The political is irrelevant – reality is observer-determined – the political is different to every one of us – even if we cede the political, the current model of politics is bad due to its attempt to dominate and force conformity – only our form of engagement creates true politics**
**Evans and Guillaume 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brad, lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds, and Laura, PhD in International Politics at Aberystwyth, “Deleuze and War: Introduction,” Theory and Event, Vol 13, Issue 3, Project Muse, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze’s work displays an intimate relationship … …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">claims to hold the key to universal truth.</span>__

**Extend the Read evidence – it is disingenuous to think of politics as separated from us – we must recognize that we __are__ politics – every speech act is an act of political engagement – they are the ones who cede the political because they attempt to limit out critical engagement and lock the world into stable binaries – we allow for better political potential**
**Choat 9 –** Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at Kingston University, London
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Simon, “Deleuze, Marx and the Politicisation of Philosophy,” Deleuze Studies. Volume 3, Page 8-27, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like Nietzsche and Philosophy, </span>__Difference and Repetition …. …that Deleuze is merely apolitical__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as Žižek does).</span>

**Embracing the alternative means a rejection of attempts to eliminate heterogeneity. The alternative necessitates a new conception of reality – even if they win that this makes the alt politically irrelevant or causes some form of violence, it is the only way to genuinely experience the beauty of life and create a world we can truly live in**
**De Landa 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Manuel, Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School in </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saas-Fee|Saas-Fee]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “A Thousand Years of Non-Linear History” pg 274)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, our theories are beginning to incorporate nonlinear elements… …</span>death of humanity and its potential for destratification<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.19</span>

===AT: Perm=== 

**We're methodologically competitive -- our alternative is not some arbitrarily utopian course of action but rather a conceptual apparatus that encounters a different world than the plan. The politics of the affirmative are one of****__forced movement__ reacting against a chaotic universe by naively designing false models that insist upon the success of order, repeating the catastrophe in the same method that it is caused. If the perm has a net-benefit then it demonstrably relies on the desirability of a conceptually ordered world that should be rejected. The politics of the alternative is natural movement, which takes joy in the dynamics of historical material and is necessary to understand the conditions of possibility for all political becoming**
**Deleuze ’87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, The Opera Quarterly 21.4 (2005) 716-724)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A process of rationalization presents itself… …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and slowly committed massacres.</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">[[@http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT14|14]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [End Page 722]</span>

===2NC Framework=== 
**Our kritik begs the question of their framework – they are an attempt to draw lines around what debate should be – these distinctions are inherently arbitrary and serve to limit the creative function of debate – we should instead allow for mutation and experimentation within the topic – we do not preclude policy debate which means they have no offense, but only rejecting their interpretation allows for the kind of creativity that brings debate its value**
**Zagorin 9** – yeah, it’s Edmund
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edmund, CEO of Giant Eel LLC and pretty damn smart, “Constructing the Ethical Limits of Play in Policy Debate,” symploke, Volume 17, Numbers 1-2, 2009, pp. 181-196, dml *we reject gendered language**)**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For those unfamiliar with policy debate… …</span>** __a reciprocal engagement with creative experimentation__.

Their framework is not neutral – it’s an attempt to rationally organize knowledge – the impact is the reproduction of biopolitical structures, bankrupt education, and the 1NC
Boden and Epstein 11 – ***Professor of Critical Management at the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff School of Management AND** Professor of Social Sciences at Cardiff University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca and Debbie, “A flat earth society? Reimagining academic freedom,” The Sociological Review, 59:3 (2011), dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is because </span><span class="Underline">neoliberal regimes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span><span class="Underline">**compromising their capacity to be deﬁant**.</span>

**Thus, vote neg to refuse their attempt to control the debate sphere – allow for the possibility of mutation and creative strategies – basically, vote neg to Occupy Wall Street**
<span class="Underline">**Paul 10/20**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian Alan Paul is a writer, artist and programmer living in the Bay Area of California. He is currently entangled with investigations of Prefigurative Politics, Antifascist Aesthetics, Network Collectivity/Ethics, and Horizontal Social Movements. He received his MFA and MA at the San Francisco Art Institute in 2011 is in the process of completing his PhD studies in UC Santa Cruz’s Film and Digital Media program, “On Immanence and Occupations,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ianalanpaul.com/occupy/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The occupations' power has largely rested … …</span><span class="Underline">and see how far the tear will go.</span>

===AT: Transhumanism/Immortality=== 

<span class="Underline">**No scenario for immortality that’s worth it – living forever would destroy the reason to live**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Smuts 11 –** Assistant Professor in the Department of Philosophy at Rhode Island College</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, “Immortality and Significance,” Philosophy and Literature, 35:1 134–149, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Through an examination of Borges’s “The Immortal… …</span><span class="Underline">boring, and long. Very long. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Immortality destroys agency and value to life**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Smuts 11 –** Assistant Professor in the Department of Philosophy at Rhode Island College</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, “Immortality and Significance,” Philosophy and Literature, 35:1 134–149, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Non-fixed Abilities: On the other hand… …</span><span class="Underline">it is hard not to eventually sober up</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===2NC Risk Analysis=== 

**We will isolate three disads to their mode of risk framing –**

**First, __that’s a link__ – their attempt to lock the world into a singular status quo is exactly what we are critiquing – they create stale dualisms that ignore the multiplicit, unpredictable nature of the world – it is impossible to find value in the infinite potentiality in life when that potentiality is closed off – that’s Deleuze – imposing our predictions on the world necessarily changes the world and limits potentiality – we should __experience__ rather than __describe__ – life is infinite, don’t fear the reaper**
**Lanza 10 –** Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “Is Death the End? Experiments Suggest You Create Time,” [[http://www.robertlanza.com/is-death-the-end-experiments-suggest-you-create-time/]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When I was young, I stayed at my neighbor's house… …where it is, is day; where it was, is night."</span>

**Second, __biopolitics__ – risk assessment operates from a model of control – that which is unknown may be a threat and must be eliminated – that’s Aradau and Van Munster – this drive culminates in an endless state of war and control – only the alt solves**
**Evans 10 –** Lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds and Programme Director for International Relations
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brad, “Life Resistance: Towards a Different Concept of the Political,” Deleuze Studies Volume 4: 2010 supplement: 142–16, dml)</span>

__When power takes life to be its object… …power struggles become a matter of pure strategy.__

**Third, __the death disad__ – what we think of as “death” is inevitable – means we are the only ones controlling uniqueness to life – extinction is inevitable – eventually the sun might explode – that doesn’t matter - constructing extinction as the opposite of life locks us into the kind of dualisms we critique – destroys our ability to experience life – we should instead affirm how death affects us and the infinite potentiality offered to us by death**
**Lanza 11 –** Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “What Is Death?”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/transcending-death_b_865233.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We all know the biological reason we age and die… …said Chuck Palahniuk "</span>__is you have to die."__

**And, here are two net benefits to ours –**

**First is __empiricism__ – their rationalist mode of thought obsessively attempts to modify experiences of the world to shape their own interests, even if an apocalypse occurs while doing so – means their “specifics” should be viewed with skepticism because reality is inherently multiplicity and thus is fluid – only the alt solves and engages in true empiricism**
**Deleuze 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, preface pg vii-viii, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have always felt that I am an empiricist… … (of which relations are only one aspect).</span>


=Postmodern Warfare K - Vs Cyborgs= 

==1NC== 

**A. Technology is not benign- cybernetics will be co-opted as a “dual use” technology aiding in warfighting and monitoring efforts**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MacDonald 07</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">October, Fraser MacDonald, PhD and Master’s from Oxford, Lecturer in Human Geography at the University of Edinburgh, “Anti-Astropolitik - outer space and the orbit of geography”, in Progress in Human Geography, vol 31, issue 5, proquest,)</span></span>
Although <span class="Underline">Galileo has been </span>presented as<span class="Underline"> an infrastructural and commercial … …no means distant from the discipline of geography. </span>
**B. Two Impacts**
**First- War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**__<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> -</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of … …the most destructive military conflict ever seen.
**Second- state control and surveillance is a means to eradicate those deemed unworthy of state protection- this turns the affirmative**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: black;">Dean 2001 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dean Mitchell Professor of Sociology and Dean of the Division of Society, Culture, Media and Philosophy at Macquarie University, Australia, “Demonic Societies” in “States of Imagination” p. 57-58)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Socialism is one contingent, historical trajectory … …</span> threatened all these with detention, imprisonment, or death.
**C. Reject the affirmative- only total rejection and resistance allows for challenges to the power underlying the affirmative’s distribution of truth and technology. It also solves the case better**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pickett 5</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2005 On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 44-45]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
A central issue in Foucault's work from this period is … …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">hierarchy, is what Foucault calls 'counter power</span>.'59


=Gendered Language= 

==Shell== 

**Reject their language even if it’s commonplace – their insidious form of gendered language reinforces a system in which men are privileged over women – discourse can either uphold the flawed status quo or open the possibility of a new reality – vote for a new, inclusive language**
**Kleinman 2007** - teaches in the Department of Sociology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (March 12, Sherryl, “ Why Sexist Language Matters ” http://www.alternet.org/story/48856/?page=entire)

__I'm not referring to such words as … …truly inclusive language or one that just pretends?__

=HoloTriv= 

<3 you Spank Daddy/Will Caplan

==Shell== 

<span class="Underline">**They use Holocaust as a metaphor and assume it can happen again – this trivializes the event, covers up actual genocide, and makes it more likely that we’ll approach a Nazi Germany-like state – we must reject this practice**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Davis Hanson 5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin and Illie Anderson Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (Victor, 6/28/05, “Hitler, Hitler, Everywhere”, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson062805.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) MH</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sen. Dick </span>Durbin<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D-Ill.) was not alone … …</span><span class="Underline">**what the ignorant are now sowing.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ©2005 Victor Davis Hanson </span>

==Extension== 

**Independently, their argument is a logical fallacy and makes rational debate impossible – they associated us with Nazis and if you think this is bad then they should lose**
<span class="heading2char0">**Curtis 4**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad Nazium” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

__In almost every heated debate, one side or the othe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">r… … it is often "fighting words". </span>



=Wipeout= 

yup

==1NC== 

FIRST is the framework –

Negative utilitarianism, or NU, is the best framework – you should minimize suffering instead of trying to maximize pleasure
B.**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contestabile</span>__**, Socrethics, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span>__**, “Negative Utilitarianism and Justice”, http://www.socrethics.com/Folder2/Justice.htm, umn-rks, gender modified

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the 20th century, the idea to … …the attainment of established truths [Popper, 284].</span>


This means extinction is the best utilitarian choice
B.**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contestabile</span>__**, Socrethics, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5</span>__**, “Hostility and the Minimization of Suffering”, http://www.phil.ethz.ch/fileadmin/phil/files/NU.pdf, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">most controversial </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NU strategy … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">suffering and therefore contradict the utility function.</span>


SECOND, Life is net suffering
David **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benatar</span>__**, associate professor of philosophy University of Cape Town, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__**, “Better Never to Have Been”, p. 14, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The central idea of this book is that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… … had one not come into existence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


AND, that suffering overwhelms happiness – happiness is simply the reduction of pain
Arthur **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schopenhauer</span>__**, philosopher, 20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__**, “Studies in Pessimism”, eBooks@Adelaide, http://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/s/schopenhauer/arthur/pessimism/chapter1.html, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unless suffering is the direct</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and immediate </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this means for [hu]mankind as a whole!</span>


Life is comparatively worse than non existence – every extension of life means additional suffering
David **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benatar</span>__**, associate professor of philosophy University of Cape Town, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__**, “Better Never to Have Been”, p. 89-92, umn-rks
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether or not one accepts the pessimistic … …but </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">at </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">those of </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">their future offspring</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


THIRD, Humans will build lab universes – causes infinite suffering
Alan **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dawrst</span>__**, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**, “Creating Infinite Suffering: Lab Universes”, http://www.utilitarian-essays.com/lab-universes.html, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abstract. I think </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">there's a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> small but </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …creating infinitely many universes would be infinitely bad</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


That outweighs everything
Alan **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dawrst</span>__**, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**, “Creating Infinite Suffering: Lab Universes”, http://www.utilitarian-essays.com/lab-universes.html, umn-rks

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Starting a chain of eternal inflation … …infinitely many new instances of eternal torment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


FINALLY, Psychology means we overvalue our lives – err negative
David **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benatar</span>__**, associate professor of philosophy University of Cape Town, 200**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__**, “Better Never to Have Been”, p. 64-69, umn-rks
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, however, there is very good reason … …do not usually cause them to become negative. </span>

==AT: Some Life Is Good== 

Hold their impacts to a high scrutiny – contentment isn’t the same as avoiding suffering
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benatar</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, associate professor of philosophy University of Cape Town, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">6</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Better Never to Have Been”, p. 99-101, umn-rks</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Those </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">cases in which the offspring… …existence as a justification for having children</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==AT: Death Bad== 

Their logic of life-centeredness allows for all suffering – only death creates transcendence which eliminates ultimate evil – put the burden on them to justify physical existence as good
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitchell </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heisman</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[__Suicide Note__, online @ http://www.suicidenote.info/, loghry]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a very popular opinion that… …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">does not dictate a bias towards life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Everything will die – embracing the disaster allows it to speak through us – it’s the only way to give value to life
Aima 2k9 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Rahel, Columbia University, in the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity, April 13, 2009, [[@http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity/#comments|http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity/#comments]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the beginning was the language… …we are finally irrational, ex-tinctual and free.</span>



**Basically, physical existence sucks**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Luchte</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, James (03/16/20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">). "The Body of Sublime Knowledge: The Aesthetic Phenomenology of Arthur Schopenhauer". //Heythrop journal// //(0018-1196)//, 50 (2), p. 228.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Returning to Schopenhauer's moral judgment… …</span>__whose purpose is the preparation for death.__


There is no distinction between death and life – surrendering to death only acknowledges this
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chopra ‘5</span> (Deepak, M.D. Chairman and co-founder of the chopra center for wellbeing, The Absolute Break Between Life and Death Is an Illusion, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/deepak-chopra/the-absolute-break-betwee_b_4843.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What bothers people about losing the body … …the mystic experiences himself as the one reality.</span>

**Embracing death is the gateway to transcendence and the solution to all earthly problems**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chopra ‘7</span> (Deepak, India Abroad, (New york edition) new york, n.y. feb 2. vol. 37, iss. 18; pg. A12)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I do not think religion in any form… …</span>You cannot be destroyed then<span class="Underline">.</span>


==AT: Death is Final== 

Immortality exists—Physicists and Scientists agree

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zammit ‘3</span> (Victor, ba, ma, phd former solicitor of the sc of new south wales and the court of australia, January 22, http://www.thetruthseeker.co.uk/article.asp?ID=50)
From the late nineteenth century until to-day … … earlier periods of recorded history (Meek 1987:4).


The burden of proof is on them—science indicates there life after death.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zammit ‘3 </span>(Victor, ba, ma, phd former solicitor of the sc of new south wales and the court of australia, January 22, http://www.thetruthseeker.co.uk/article.asp?ID=50)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In England today a group of scientists… …</span> proved that the afterlife does not exist.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Medical literature
Zammit ‘3<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Victor, ba, ma, phd former solicitor of the sc of new south wales and the court of australia, January 22, http://www.thetruthseeker.co.uk/article.asp?ID=50)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some of the leaders in the scientific research … …</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> growing belief in the human spirit.” (Morse 1984:190).</span>
Near death experiences

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chopra ‘7 </span>(Deepak, m.d. chairman and co-founder of the chopra center for wellbeing, Life After Death: The Burden of Proof, p. 37)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vedanta`s assertion that the soul … …time may end, but consciousness continues. </span>
==AT: Environmental Ethics== 

Embracing the collective suicide of humanity is necessary to end our complicity in the destruction of nature
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tarik </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kochi</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Queen’s University, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Noam </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ordan</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Bar Ilan University, 200</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity”, Borderlands, Volume 7, Number 3, http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf, umn-rks</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For some, guided by the pressure of moral conscience … …</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">we will give the gift of life to others</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Their util arguments internal link turn their environmental ethics cards
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Callicott 89</span>__** (J. Baird, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin – Stevens Point, In Defense of Land Ethics, 1989)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The "shift of values" which results … …such an environmental ethic were implemented</span>__.__
==AT: Nuke War=Suffering/Physical Existence Good== 

Nuclear winter does cause extinction pretty quickly – but that allows for a nirvana that is superior to physical existence – kaboom
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolan ‘2</span> (John Dolan, PhD in the writing of the Marquis de Sade from UC Berkeley, professor and essayist, “The Case for Nuclear Winter,” April 21, 2002, [[http://www.exile.ru/articles/detail.php?ARTICLE_ID=6495&IBLOCK_ID=35]]) [M Leap]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are no nihilists any more… …</span><span class="Underline">a few seconds of rushing air, and then Nirvana.</span>

=<span class="Underline">Introna K</span>= 


==NOTE== 

The Introna card on framework was cited as being from 2011 - however, when I went to reread the article, I discovered that it was from 2005. The card is now cited correctly.

==1NC== 

**The affirmative seeks a technological fix to worldly problems – this creates an artificial binary between the machine and the human that traps us into purely calculative modes of thought**
**Introna 10 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI and Society Vol 25 no 1, pg 93-102, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">When referring to an ‘ethics of technology’ or … … its otherness? This is what I will no turn to. </span>

**This ethic creates the world as standing reserve and legitimizes endless genocide – the only way to escape this cycle is to __vote negative to affirm the infinite value of all forms of Being__**
**Introna 9 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” //Theory, Culture & Society// 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In the ethics of hybrids </span><span class="Underline">our ethical relationship … …an ethos of letting-be of all beings.</span>


==2NC Overview== 

**it’s an independent ethical priority**
**Henning 9 –** associate professor of philosophy at Gonzaga University
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Brian, ‘Trusting in the Efficacy of Beauty: A Kalocentric Approach to Moral Philosophy’, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ethics and the Environment</span>//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Final truths (whether in religion, morality… … and for the whole of reality.</span>


==Link - Warming/energy affs== 

**Control over the environment is an attempt to stave off our own finitude – causes planetary extinction through mechanization**
**Joronen 11 –** coordinator of the Geography graduate school at the University of Turku
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mikko, “Dwelling in the Sites of Finitude: Resisting the Violence of the Metaphysical Globe”, Antipode Volume 43, Issue 4, pages 1127–1154, September 2011) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps one of the most striking examples of the need … … capable of calling the living earth a home. </span>

==AT: Framework== 


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Embracing the impossibility of value judgments is the __precondition__ to politics – acknowledging alterity is the __utmost ethical priority__. Their framework limits out the possibility of wondrous encounters and cannot accurately represent politics, while our critique is a prerequisite to action</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jones 9</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel, University of Dundee, “On the Value of Not Knowing: Wonder, Beginning Again and Letting Be,” As presented at ‘On Not Knowing’, a Symposium hosted by Kettle’s Yard and New Hall College, Cambridge, 29th June 2009, to accompany the exhibition ‘Material Intelligence’, Kettle’s Yard, 16 May – 12 July 2009)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Thus described, </span>__wonder is the passion … … of thinking again and beginning anew__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**Reduction of debate to purely political concerns guarantees atrocity – we must infuse ethics into our decisionmaking**
**Introna 5 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “Justice, ethics and piracy: on doing the right thing”, [[http://www2.le.ac.uk/departments/management/documents/research/research-units/cppe/conference-pdfs/levinas/introna.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> For Levinas, </span>__ethics__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> is </span>__happens____—or not… …**it was the right thing to do after all**.__

==AT: Case Outweighs/Util== 

**They are in a double-bind – either they are making the kind of value judgments we critique or everything is equal and you vote neg because nuclear annihilation does not alter the amount of matter in the universe**
Eric **Katz**, Director of Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, **1997**
[//Nature as Subject// p. 9-10]

**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Utilitarianism</span>__**__<span style="background-color: lime;"> might be salvaged</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … …</span>__is the only choice__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> open to preservationists</span>__.__

**The state of existence is irrelevant – eventually even time itself will die – only the act of the alternative presents a truly revolutionary act of life-celebration**
**Clark 10 –** Senior Lecturer in Geography at Open University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel, “Ex-Orbitant Generosity: Gifts of Love in a Cold Cosmos”, Parallax, Vol. 16, No. 1, Pg. 80-95, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">For Deleuze, and those in his orbit</span>__… …If not us, then who?__


==AT: Perm== 

**Their starting point is flawed which is a reason their ethic and the alternative are mutually exclusive – incorporation of the alt into legislation dooms the struggle**
**Taylor 98**
Prue **Taylor**, Senior Lecturer of law and a founding member of the New Zealand Centre for Environmental Law at the University of Auckland,**1998**
[An Ecological Approach to International Law: Responding to the Challenges of Climate Change (Hardcover) p. 39-42, 45-48]

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">The question </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">'are ecocentric ethics really necessary… …</span>__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">sustainable management' which is ecological. </span>

**The permutation is an attempt to codify the other into calculation – this means it can’t solve the alternative.**
**Introna 10 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Lucas, “The ‘Measure of a Man’ and the Ethos of Hospitality: Towards an Ethical Dwelling with Technology”, AI and Society Vol 25 no 1, pg 93-102, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It is exactly this simultaneous presence of the Other … …</span> __hospitality towards all beings is not possible.__


==AT: Calculations/Value Judgments Inevitable== 

**No Impact—we don’t claim spillover—Even if human instiutions are inevitably violent, anthropocentrism is a choice in this debate. Make the choice to break the walls of your ego.**
Mary **Midgley**, retired Senior Lecturer in <span style="color: black;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophy|Philosophy]]</span> at <span style="color: black;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newcastle_University|Newcastle University]]</span>, **2005**
[//The Essential Mary Midgley// p 373-378, NOTE: this card is from a UTNIF camp file and appears to be gender-edited – instances of the word “Humyn” likely replace the word “man”, and “herself” and “her” replace “himself” and “him” respectively]

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">’ To deal with this, we need to understand adaptation… … </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">an essential condition of</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua;"> sanity</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**Cross-apply Jones from framework – the Otherness of the universe approaches us prior to knowledge – your ballot is an ethical orientation and it should aim to open up new modes of being rather than acting within current ones**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Anthony </span>**Weston**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Philosophy at Elon University, </span>**2009**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[//The Incompleat Eco-Philosopher// p. 9-11]</span>


<span style="font-size: 5pt;">If </span>__the____world is__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> a collection of more or less </span>__… …__ __<span style="background-color: lime;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> great </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">task is not knowledge but relationship</span>____.__