==Round One - Negative vs Damien==

Senkakus - 1NC Shell

No Senkakus conflict now—US deterrence role

Economy, Oct 2010 – Director for Asia Studies at Council on Foreign Relations [Elizabeth  10/21/10, " Checking China's Territorial Moves ", http://www.cfr.org/publication/23196/checking_chinas_territorial_moves.html)

A growing number of territorial … there too, again and again.

Futenma is key—only way to stop Chinese grab for the Senkakus

Chaffin, 2010 Institute for Policy Studies [Greg Foreign Policy in Focus Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance October 5

The units stationed at Futenma … the Senkaku Islands, near Okinawa.

If China attacks, the US will be drawn in—defense treaty

Bush, October 2010 (Richard C., Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies @ Brookings, “China-Japan Security Relations,” Policy Brief #177, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/10_china_japan_bush.aspx)

If such a clash occurred, it … Japan or, at least, oppose China. 

Extinction

Hunkovic, 2009 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]

A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.

Consult Japan Counterplan - 1NC


The United States federal government should enter prior and binding consultation with the government of Japan over whether to reduce the number of III Marine Expeditionary Force personnel stationed in Japan to approximately 5,000 which should include, but should not necessarily be limited to, the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as Marine Corps personnel tasked with maintaining pre-positioned. The United States federal government should implement the resulting recommendations from this consultation.

Our Marine Presence is the key issue for Consultation – Japan will say yes. Bases are a key issue to catalyze an alliance wide framework

Tanaka 2010– Senior Fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange [Hitoshi, “Futenma: Diplomatic Mess or Strategic Opportunity?,” p. 1, vol. 5 no. 2, pub JCIE, May 2010, accessed 7/14/10, http://www.jcie.org/researchpdfs/EAI/5-2.pdf] Red

Nevertheless, the United States also … into an important strategic opportunity. 

Counterplan turns the case – genuine and binding consultation prior to implementation is key to alliance 

Mochizuki, 1997 - Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institute [Mike 3/22/97 Brookings Review, lexis 

RESTRUCTURING THE ALLIANCE The time … the major West European allies.

Okinawa Counterplan – 1NC

Text – the United States federal government should give Japanese officials the right to inspect environmental impacts of US bases, increase co-location of US bases with JSDF bases, and increase investment in smart grid programs in Okinawa.

Counterplan solves case – it builds public support, the Japanese economy, leadership and environmental cooperation

Cronin, Oct 2010 – Director of the Asia Pacific Security Program at the CNAS [The Japan-U.S. Alliance and the Liberal International Order Joint Statement October 27, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Tokyo%20Foundation%20Joint%20Statement%20on%20US%20Japan%20Alliance_Final%20PDF_Oct%202010.pdf

VI. Reinforcing the Alliance’s Foundation … economic growth of the prefecture.

Counterplan solves – economic motives will drive Okinawan reaction. 

Tribune Business News, 2010 (Reiji Yoshid, Staff writer for Tribune Business News,  July 7,  Special burden, special economic benefit, Proquest)

July 07--NAGO, Okinawa Pref. -- On … demanding compensation for hosting U.S. bases


Japan Kritik - 1NC Shell
	
The discourse of bolstering the Japanese alliance for security goals is a cover for a new kind of colonialism that forces “liberal” values on “uncivilized” states through brutal violence
	
Iwami, 8 – Masters in Political Science @ U of Canterbury (Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” http://ir.canterbury.ac.nz/bitstream/10092/2106/1/thesis_fulltextpdf.pdf)
 
The reinforcement and expansion of … region and for the world. 

Colonialism unleashes the worst violence imaginable—entire populations can be slaughtered because their lack of “civilization” puts them in a state of exception that justifies never-ending war

Mbembe, 3 – senior researcher at the Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of the Witwatersrand (Achilles, “Necropolitics,” Public Culture 15(1): 11 –40, http://www.jhfc.duke.edu/icuss/pdfs/Mbembe.pdf)

If the relations between life … simultaneous idealism and apparent inhumanity. 45 

The alternative is critical geopolitics—we analyze the Japanese alliance through changes in discourse and engage with foreign policy in a new way

Tuathail, 93 – Department of Geography, Virginia Polytechnic Insitute and State University (Gearoid, “The new East-West conflict? Japan and the Bush administration's 'New World Order',” Area (1993) 25.2, 127-135, JSTOR)

Though they reach different conclusions, … policy (Der Derian and Shapiro 1989). 

The Alliance – 1NC

1. Earthquake has Changed the Futenma debate – even if there is still opposition to our bases, it has shifted toward working out problems

Agence France Presse March 15, 2011 [By Shaun Tandon  staff Japan disaster offers hope for diplomatic opening http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hH2c9iDTprbA66vaPoCtEiOrJMXg?docId=CNG.ea7c289bc2e02432c2ceb3e9e0b7d793.af1

While the world is focused … at the moment," Smith said.

2. Their evidence is limited to Okinawans – the rest of Japan supports bases. Okinawan opposition is Loud, but has No Impact on Alliance Relations or Kickout – they do not have the political power

3. No Kickout Now - Their evidence is outdated – The Senkaku Island crisis galvanized Japanese support for US Bases in Okinawa 

Japan Times Oct 2010 [Masami Ito, staff writer Oct 13 " Suddenly, US alliance is back in vogue ", http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20101014f1.html)

Only a few months ago, the … convenience of the Okinawa people?"

4. Their 1AC evidence proves our point – Their authors predicted a Kickout in 1997, 2001, 2004, and now 2010 – there have Always been protests against our presence, and they have Never actually caused a kickout

5. Futenma doesn’t dominate alliance relations – empirically we can discuss other issues, and the US is being more flexible

New York Times, 2011 [Martin Fackler, Elisabeth Bumiller, 1/13/11, " Gates Signals US Is Flexible on Moving Air Base in Japan ", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/14/world/asia/14military.html)

TOKYO — Striking a conciliatory tone on … more assertively towards its neighbors.”

6. Their Chaffin Evidence is poor – relations are good now in spite of Futenma. When the Relocation vote fails in the future, the Marines will just Stay at Futenma. Chaffin Doesn’t say that this will cause a Kickout


******************MUST GET THIS FAR


Deterrence – 1NC

1. Turn – Marine Readiness – plan kills the Marines ability to respond to regional crises. Marines are key to our Signal of Deterrence and Alliance sustainability. Even if they leave some Marines, Any reduction is critical

Lawless 2010 - former deputy undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Defense in charge of Asia-Pacific affairs [Richard P. Lawless was an employee at the Central Intelligence Agency, serving in Washington, D.C. and various postings in the Far East and Europe As interviewed by YOICHI KATO, Asahi Shimbun Senior Staff Writer http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201003040361.html

Q: Tell me about the … existing deterrence with a substitute mechanism.

2. Plan kills Marine readiness which is key to East Asian stability – symbolic deterrence, crisis response, regional cooperation and joint training to improve Japanese forces – Our evidence specifically indicts their solvency author

Eldridge, 2010 - professor of Okinawan history at Osaka University [Robert, with Dan Melton, Colonel in the United States Marine Corps, Assistant Chief of Staff G-5 for the U.S. Marine Corps Bases Japan, March 4 “U.S. marine presence in Okinawa Pref. essential,” The Daily Yomiuri, http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100304dy01.htm, Accessed 10-24-2010)

The opinion piece entitled "Putting … develop their capabilities and jointness.

3. Turn - Kadena – closing Futenma overloads our other bases, and will embolden Anti Base Movements to close Kadena. This destroys our hegemony in Asia

Eldridge, 2010 - professor of Okinawan history at Osaka University [Robert, with Dan Melton, Colonel in the United States Marine Corps, Assistant Chief of Staff G-5 for the U.S. Marine Corps Bases Japan, March 4 “U.S. marine presence in Okinawa Pref. essential,” The Daily Yomiuri, http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100304dy01.htm, Accessed 10-24-2010)

There is much to rebut … would further degrade alliance capabilities.

4. Our Turns outweigh - Plan creates the Perception of withdrawal – even if it Actually prevents the kickout from other bases, other nations will only see us Reducing our commitment

Auslin  2010 Resident Scholar at the AEI [4/15/10, Speech by Michael, Institute for Public Policy Research Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, American Enterprise , Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific, http://www.aei.org/speech/100137;WBTR]

It is clear, however, that … other nations in the region.

5. They cannot win uniqueness for any of their impacts - US Japan relations are Increasing – Japan is committed to keeping Marines in Okinawa – this is key to the alliance

The Yomiuri Shimbun Jan. 14, 2011 [http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T110113006787.htm Gates, ministers agree on deepening alliance




==Round Two - Affirmative vs Hays==


1AC South Korea – TOC

Plan: Independent from any decision regarding Marine Security Guards, Military Intelligence Brigade, or medical or veterinary forces in South Korea, the United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of a substantial number of United States Forces Korea ground forces from South Korea.

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its United States Forces Korea ground forces in South Korea.

Advantage 1 is Korean War

New North Korean provocations are coming due to economic desperation and succession. North Korea will escalate its behavior beyond posturing, and South Korea will no longer show restraint.

Klingner, 2011 – Senor Research Fellow for North East Asia at Heritage Foundation [Bruce 01-10-2011 16:53  	
Expect more NK provocations in 2011 http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/01/137_79422.html

At the end of 2010, the … side could spark a destructive conflagration.

Structural Factors ensure that those provocations will escalate – their evidence is conclusionary and shallow – new actors, air power, recession and succession all guarantee provocations will escalate

Stares 2011 - Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations [Paul On Escalation in Korea http://38north.org/2011/01/on-escalation-in-korea/ Jan 13

Remarkably, despite all the commentary … provocations as some believe he is.
	
Structural factors ensure escalation even … new provocations will cause a conflagration

Oh, March 2011 - Institute for Strategic, Political, Security and Economic Consultancy [Kongdan Oh March 2, http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=127220 Military Confrontation on the Korean Peninsula by Dr. 

The military confrontation is most … -term consequences of military actions.

Relying on deterrence encourages South Korean provocations – this escalates to total war

Snyder, Dec 2010 – prof of English at Pohang Science and Technology University [Who's Provokoking Whom in the Koreas? The Western Confucian http://www.nolanchart.com/article8195.html by Joshua Snyder December 12

Is it North or South … North" [Pyongyang stretches deterrence limits].)

Escalation causes Asian war, kills the global economy, and kills US China relations, causing a war with China

Stares November 2010 - Council on Foreign Relations [Paul B. Military Escalation in Korea CONTINGENCY PLANNING MEMORANDUM NO. 10 http://timeswampland.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/cpa_contingencymemo_10.pdf

The United States has much … be the avoidance of war.

US-China war causes nuclear extinction

Hunkovic, 2009 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]

A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.

North Korean aggression will cause nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war escalates

Hayes & Hamel-Green, 2010 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. 

We solve - withdrawal encourages South Korean independence and regional solutions – North Korean weakness makes war inevitable now

Trifkovic, Nov 23, 2010 - the director of the Center for International Affairs at The Rockford Institute [Dr. Srdja Chronicles Magazine, http://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/2010/11/23/time-to-leave-korea/ 

North Korea’s artillery attack on a … 2008 still stand, word for word.

Withdrawal solves the Korean crisis – it eliminates our provocations and fosters a negotiated peace

Raimondo, Nov 24, 2010 – editorial director of Antiwar.com [Rebel News http://www.rebelnews.org/opinion/1128-asia-pacific/527109-korean-conundrum-is-there-a-way-out Korean Conundrum: Is There a Way Out?

It seems like a hundred rather … blossom on the Korean peninsula.

Withdrawal will cause China to step in to resolve North Korean aggression – they would anticipate Japanese and South Korean militarization

Hadar, Nov 30, 2010 – research fellow at the Cato Institute [North Korea: Not America's Problem http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12603 by Leon T. Hadar  The American Conservative Blog on November 30, 2010.

What I do know is that U.S. … power that it claims to be.

China is the key internal link to solvency – currently, Beijing is pushing multilateral talks rather than pressure on North Korea

Global Security Newswire, Nov. 29, 2010 [China Calls For Talks Over Korean Crisis, Parties Unresponsive
http://globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=nw_20101129_2947

China yesterday called for emergency … policy during the Bush administration.


Advantage 2 is US China Relations

Hu’s visit opens the potential for improved Sino US relations

Koo 2011 - retired international business consultant [Dr. George New America Media 1/25/11, " A Win-Win Situation for US-China Relations After Hu's Visit ", http://newamericamedia.org/2011/01/a-win-win-situation-for-us-china-relations-after-hus-visit.php)

China's President Hu Jintao has … but tarnish his own image.

US military presence in South Korea fuels security competition with China – they perceive it as containment. This makes peace in Korea impossible because it prevents cooperation 

van der Putten, Dec 2010 - research fellow with the Clingendael Institue in The Hague [Frans-Paul 12/21, “Sino-US geopolitical rivalry does not help Korean Stability” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/21/sino-us-geopolitical-rivalry-does-not-help-korean-stability/

The United States government believes … in a more stable Korean peninsula.

American military presence in Korea is a key factor undermining US China relations – our refusal to compromise and focus on security politics makes our relationship zero sum – relations are collapsing now.

Lee, 2010 – Asian Affairs writer for China Matters [July 19 "The New Face of U.S.-China Relations: 'Strategic Reassurance' or Old-Fashioned Rollback?" The Asia-Pacific Journal, http://japanfocus.org/-Peter-Lee/3385

Indeed, U.S. China policy today looks a … assures a confrontational posture against China.

Sino US relations are key to solve every global impact

Cohen 2009 - former U.S. secretary of defense [Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef)

The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations … , though not inevitable, is indispensable.

Chinese Leadership on North Korea is essential to avoid Currency Wars – it sets the tone for US China Cooperation on other issues

Sica, Nov 27 2010 - Chief Investment Officer of SICA Wealth Management [Blog - Forbes What the Conflict on the Korean Peninsula Means to the World Economy http://blogs.forbes.com/jeffreysica/2010/11/27/spirit-of-freedom-what-the-conflict-on-the-korean- peninsula-means-to-the-world-economy/?boxes=financechannelforbes

The US market fell this … us in a very defensive position.  

Chinese Currency Conflicts cause a slippery slope to protectionism and trade war

The Globe and Mail September 30, 2010 [Congress flexes muscle over China's yuan; U.S. politicians set stage to allow companies to seek retribution for lost sales due to underpriced imports BYLINE: KEVIN CARMICHAEL Staff Lexis

U.S. lawmakers are taking direct … at Cassels Brock in Toronto.

Trade wars cause global war

Spicer, Olin Foundation, 96 (The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121)

The choice facing the West … a premium in the years ahead. 

Concessions on our military presence in Korea are necessary to build mutual trust and relations with China

Koo 2011 - retired international business consultant [Dr. George New America Media 1/25/11, " A Win-Win Situation for US-China Relations After Hu's Visit ", http://newamericamedia.org/2011/01/a-win-win-situation-for-us-china-relations-after-hus-visit.php)

Mutual trust, much deeper than … so as not be misunderstood.


==Round Three - Neg vs Westminster Kritikal Korea==



 Trilateralism 1NC Shell

A. Uniqueness - Trilateralism is increasing – bilateral ties have evolved into a trilateral relationship

Swenson-Wright, 2011 - Fellow with the Asia Programme at Chatham House [John Swenson-Wright, 1/28/11, " Korea: A Glimmer Of Hope", http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/publications/twt/archive/view/-/id/2120/)

Worrying as the events of … between Washington, Tokyo and Seoul.

B. Link and Impact - Bilateral defense commitments are key to Trilateralism – it is empirically key to peace in East Asia, and will spill over to other issues

Clinton, Dec 6, 2010 – Secretary of State [http://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/2010/12/152443.htm Remarks with Japanese Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara and South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung-hwan Hillary

SECRETARY CLINTON:  Good afternoon. I am … challenges that we face together.

 Consult China 1NC


Text - The United States federal government should engage prior, genuine, and binding consultation with China.  The United States should advocate a substantial reduction in United States Forces Korea ground troops during the consultative process and will adopt the result of the consultation.  We’ll clarify.

The counterplan solves the case – China will say yes to the plan.

Nguyen 2009 (Peter Van Nguyen is a freelance writer based in Sydney, Australia. His articles have been published in OpEdnews, Asia Times Online and Foreign Policy Journal, October 13 2009)

The United States and South … of U.S. troops from the region.  

Expanding consultation is key to maintaining healthy relations with China, turning their case advantage.  

Wenfeng, 2007 (Wang, Research with China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, 6/20 “China-US dialogue best way to deal with issues”, China Daily, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2007-06/20/content_898065.htm)   

It is fair to say … thinking, operation and policymaking process.   

Sino US relations are key to solve every global impact

Cohen 2009 - former U.S. secretary of defense [Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef)

The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations … , though not inevitable, is indispensable.


 Realism 1NC 

The link is constructivism. Discourse cannot resolve the problem of uncertainty regarding the intentions of the other—The malleability of discourse only proves the anarchical nature of the state system and makes a focus on relative power crucial

Copeland, Associate Professor and Director Dept. of Government and Foreign Affairs @ University of Virginia, 2006 (Dale, “The Constructivist Challenge to Structural Realism: A Review Essay”, Constructivism and International Relations, Alexander Wendt and His Critics)

Notwithstanding Wendt’s important contributions to international relations theory, his critique of structural realism has inherent flaws. Most important, it does not adequately address a critical aspect of the realist worldview: the problem of uncertainty. For structural realists, it is states’ uncertainty about the present and especially the future intentions of others that makes the levels and trends in relative power such fundamental causal variables. Contrary to Wendt’s claim that realism must smuggle in states with differently constituted interests to explain why systems sometimes fall into conflict, neorealists argue that uncertainty about the other’s present interests—whether the other is driven by security or nonsecurity motives—can be enough to lead security-seeking states to fight. This problem is exacerbated by the incentives that actors have to deceive one another, an issue Wendt does not address. Yet even when states are fairly sure that the other is also a security seeker, they know that it might change its spots later on. States must therefore worry about any decline in their power, lest the other turn aggressive after achieving superiority. Wendt’s building of a systemic constructivist theory—and his bracketing of unit-level processes—thus presents him with an ironic dilemma. It is the very mutability of polities as emphasized by domestic-level constructivists—that states may change because of domestic processes independent of international interaction—that makes prudent leaders so concerned about the future. If diplomacy can have only a limited effect on another’s character or regime type, then leaders must calculate the other’s potential to attack later should it acquire motives for expansion. In such an environment of future uncertainty, levels and trends in relative power will thus act as a key constraint on state behavior. The problem of uncertainty complicates Wendt’s efforts to show that anarchy has no particular logic, but only three different ideational instantiations in history—as Hobbesian, Lockean, or Kantian cultures, depending on the level of actor compliance to certain behavioral norms. By differentiating these cultures in terms of the degree of cooperative behavior exhibited by states, Wendt’s analysis reinforces the very dilemma underpinning the realist argument. If the other is acting cooperatively, how is one to know whether this reflects its peaceful character, or is just a façade masking aggressive desires? Wendt’s discussion of the different degrees of internalization of the three cultures only exacerbates the problem. What drives behavior at the lower levels of internalization is precisely what is not shared between actors—their private incentives to comply for short-term selfish reasons. This suggests that the neorealist and neoliberal paradigms, both of which emphasize the role of uncertainty when internalization is low or nonexistent, remain strong competitors to constructivism in explaining changing levels of cooperation through history. And because Wendt provides little empirical evidence to support his view in relation to these competitors, the debate over which paradigm possesses greater explanatory power is still an open one. 

The possibility of many discursive interpretations compounds uncertainty and reinforces the problem of deception—even if the Aff discourse is concilatory, this will not ensure that it will be interpreted as intended—the impact is the rise of Hitlerite states

Copeland, Associate Professor and Director Dept. of Government and Foreign Affairs @ University of Virginia, 2006 (Dale, “The Constructivist Challenge to Structural Realism: A Review Essay”, Constructivism and International Relations, Alexander Wendt and His Critics)

Second, Wendt’s view is inconsistent with his recognition that states often do have difficulty learning about the other. The very problem Ego and Alter have in first communicating is that ‘behavior does not speak for itself. It must be interpreted, and ‘many interpretations are possible’ (330). This point is reinforced by Wendt’s epistemological point of departure: that the ideas held by actors are ‘unobservable’ (chap. 2). Because leaders cannot observe directly what the other is thinking, they are resigned to making inferences from its behavior. Yet in security affairs, as Wendt acknowledges, mistakes in inferences—assuming the other is peaceful when in fact it has malevolent intentions—could prove ‘fatal’ (360). Wendt accepts that the problem facing rational states ‘is making sure that they perceive other actors, and other actors’ perception of them, correctly’ (334, emphasis in original). Yet the book provides no mechanism through which Ego and Alter can increase their confidence in the correctness of their estimates of the other’s type. Simply describing how Ego and Alter shape each other’s sense of self and other is not enough.21 Rational choice models, using assumptions consistent with structural realism, do much better here. In games of incomplete information, where states are unsure about the other’s type, actions by security-seeking actors that would be too costly for greedy actors to adopt can help states reduce their uncertainty about present intentions, thus moderating the security dilemma.22 Wendt cannot simply argue that over time states can learn a great deal about other states. It is what is not ‘shared’, at least in the area of intentions, that remains the core stumbling block to cooperation. Third, Wendt’s position that the problem of other minds is not much of a problem ignores a fundamental issue in all social relations, but especially in those between states, namely, the problem of deception. In making estimates of the other’s present type, states have reason to be suspicious of its diplomatic gestures—the other may be trying to deceive them. Wendt’s analysis is rooted in the theory of symbolic interactionism, but he does not discuss one critical aspect of that tradition: the idea of ‘impression management’. Actors in their relations exploit the problem of other minds for their own ends. On the public stage, they present images and play roles that often have little to do with their true beliefs and interests backstage.23 In laying out his dramaturgical view of Ego and Alter co-constituting each other’s interests and identities, Wendt assumes that both Ego and Alter are making genuine efforts to express their true views and to ‘cast’ the other in roles that they believe in. But deceptive actors will stage-manage the situation to create impressions that serve their narrow ends, and other actors, especially in world politics, will understand this.24 Thus a prudent security-seeking Ego will have difficulty distinguishing between two scenarios: whether it and Alter do indeed share a view of each other as peaceful, or whether Alter is just pretending to be peaceful in order to make Ego think that they share a certain conception of the world, when in fact they do not.25 Wendt’s analysis offers no basis for saying when peaceful gestures should be taken at face value, and when they should be discounted as deceptions.26 When we consider the implications of a Hitlerite state deceiving others to achieve a position of military superiority, we understand why great powers in history have tended to adopt postures of prudent mistrust.

Uncertainty is not a product of discourse—it’s a part of the human condition

Copeland, Associate Professor and Director Dept. of Government and Foreign Affairs @ University of Virginia, 2006 (Dale, “The Constructivist Challenge to Structural Realism: A Review Essay”, Constructivism and International Relations, Alexander Wendt and His Critics)

Social Theory of International Politics provides an important starting point for further debate and constructivist empirical analysis, but only a starting point. Wendt has not shown that anarchy tied to changing distributions of power has no logic, only that constructivist variables can perhaps, under certain conditions, moderate actors’ level of uncertainty about others’ intentions. Yet constructivism is inherently an argument about how the past shapes the way actors understand their present situation. By its very nature—its focus on historical process—constructivism has trouble analyzing how rational, prudent leaders deal with the pernicious problem of future uncertainty. And this uncertainty is given by the human condition. Human beings are not born with the ability to read the minds of other actors, and they have only limited means for foreseeing the future. Moreover, human beings, as constructivists emphasize, are mutable—they can be changed through interaction. Yet if much of this interaction takes place at the domestic level and is independent of diplomatic interaction, then prudent states must be worried. They know that the other may become aggressive despite all diplomatic efforts to instantiate other-regarding values and to communicate their own non-aggressive intentions. The material distribution of power then becomes critical to their calculations. It represents the other’s potential to do harm in the future. Hence, if power trends are negative, a declining state must worry that the other will turn aggressive after it achieves preponderance, even if it seems peaceful right now.

The Alternative is to endorse Strategic Choice Theory—the two biggest factors that states should focus on are material forces and information.   Cooperation is possible even in the face of hostile discourses.  “Becoming friends” with the other is a poor substitute for merely solving conflict through information that other states are likely to be security seekers as well

Glaser, 2010 – Professor Political Science at GWU (Charles, Rational Theory of International Politics, The Logic of Competition and Cooperation, p. 148)

While these arguments are sound, structural constructivism has exaggerated the importance of collective identities. as explained in chapter 3,  information that the opposing state is very likely to be a security seeker can produce extensive cooperation and lasting peace, without collective identities. Wendt’s categorization of states as friends (those with collective identities) as compared to rivals and enemies (those without collective identities) underplays the potential impact of information on the interaction of security seekers.58 Security seekers that are confident that the opposing states are security seekers can pursue extensive cooperation and possibly a lasting peace without being friends. The possibility of two sets of conditions that make possible stable cooperation and peace suggests a comparison of the prospects for achieving them.59 Shared confidence that other states are security seekers is likely to be easier to achieve than becoming friends and likely to be as lasting. if confidence that other states are security seekers precedes the development of collective identities, which seems likely, then becoming “nonenemies” is a prerequisite for becoming friends. in this case, the security dilemma would be essentially eliminated before collective identities are formed, which reduces their importance. in addition, confidence in other states’ benign motives may be as lasting as collective identities since information that other states are security seekers makes possible cooperative policies that reinforce this information. although analyzing these interactions is beyond the boundaries of a theory that takes states’ interests as fixed, my point here is simply that the contribution of collective identities to cooperation and peace does not clearly exceed that of information that the opposing state’s motives are benign.


Case

1. No Risk of Conflict

a. Empirics – all of their warrants are empirically disproven. Deterrence works in Korea.

Kang, Dec 2010  - director of the Korean Studies Institute at USC [David The National Interest, Dec 31 Korea's New Cold War
[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/koreas-new-cold-war-4653

The South Korean military held … the fighting into a general war.


2. Turn - Withdrawal causes a North Korean attack and escalates conflicts – ground forces are key

Singh 2003 – senior research fellow at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul [and president of the Indo-Korean Policy Forum [2003, Lakhvinder Singh and Il-Young Kim , “Time to Keep Going: The Role and Structure of U.S. Forces in a Unified Korea,” Pacific Focus, Volume 18 Issue 1, Pages 65 – 87, Center for International Studies, Inha University] 

Such intelligence capabilities of the U.S. … take this point into account. 

3. Turn – Regime Collapse

a. Reduced military presence will collapse the regime by relying on Chinese pressure

Chen and Lee 07   Chen works at the  Department of Political Science, University at Albany and Lee  works at the Department of Political Science and Diplomacy, Dong-A University, South Korea, (Cheng Chen and Ji-Yong Lee, November 2007  “Making sense of North Korea: “National Stalinism” in comparative-historical perspective, ScienceDirect)

 In contrast, despite past … dead end in North Korea.

b. Regime collapse would lead to a refugee crisis, loose nukes, and nuclear power war

Byman and Lind 10 (Daniel Byman is Professor in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and Senior Fellow at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. Jennifer Lind is Assistant Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, “Pyongyang’s Survival Strategy”, http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1162/IStEC_a_00002)

Samuel Kim comments that because … luxury imports for the elite.”101

Insecurity and disorder aren’t inevitable—careful future planning has been enormously effective. Debates amongst citizens are key to assessing probability and effectively planning.

Kurasawa, 04 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004). 

Moreover, keeping in mind the … future generations if left unchallenged. 


3. Rejecting discourse paralyzes nations in the face of legitimate threats to their survival

Williams 2003 (Michael, Lecturer at the University of Wales, International Studies Quarterly, 522)

In certain settings, the Copenhagen … by a Schmittian understanding of politics.

4. Consequentialism is key to moral agency 

Robert E. Goodin, 1995, professor of social sciences and philosopher at the Research School of Social Sciences at Australian National University, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, p. 39

The rather more grand way … agency that is being undermined."

Focusing on epistemology ignores real world problems

Jarvis, 2K – Prof Philosophy @ U South … and the Challenge of Postmodernism”, pg. 2)

While Hoffmann might well be … "an appropriate form of scholarship."5 

5. Utilitarianism is essential to equality

Ronald Dworkin, 1977, Taking Rights Seriously, p. 234

The utilitarian argument, that a policy … subservient or beholden to them.
[one is feminist editing JAC]

6. Turn - Scenario Planning – 

a. Representing global threats attention to global affairs – The alternative makes crisis-driven responses inevitable

Ungar, president – Goucher College, 2005 [sanford, “compassion fatigue: the next wave?”, winter, www.goucher.edu/x4726.xml]

There is a temptation to worry … out what is really going on.

b. Rejecting strategic predictions of threats makes them inevitable—decisionmakers will rely on preconceived conceptions of threat rather than the more qualified predictions of analysts

Fitzsimmons, 07  (Michael, Washington DC defense analyst, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06-07, online)

But handling even this weaker … and debate regarding their application

 to particular strategic contexts, … by the decision-makers  themselves

7.Turn – Legitimate threats

a. Not all threats are created – Hannibal, the Nazis, Stalin and the Golden Horde all really existed and were existential threats to other nations. Limit them to created threats that we actually identify.

b. Even socially constructed threats can guide security policy

Lipschultz 1998 (Ronnie D., Professor, Department of … do to us with theirs . 22 
1. Nuclear war outweighs everything—even the most minute risk of extinction means that all necessary sacrifices must be made

George Kateb, 1992, professor of philosophy at Princeton University, The Inner Ocean, p. 111-12

Schell's work attempts to force … take the appropriate preserving steps.

2. Consequentialism is inevitable  - Human nature

Leonard G. Ratner, 1984,professor of law at USC, Hofstra Law Journal, 12 Hofstra L. Rev. 723, spring,

All systems of morality, however … self interest -- of the individual.









Prime Minister Naoto Kan and … of Guam, the officials said.