[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Plan: The United States federal government should establish humyn settlements on the Moon. We will clarify.

Observation 1 is Inherency:

The cancellation of the Moon Constellation program has brought U.S. space leadership to a crossroad

Wolf, U.S. House Appropriations commerce, justice, science subcommittee, 10
Frank, SpaceNews, “U.S. House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science subcommittee,” 4-25, http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100425-dont-forsake-leadership-space.html)

Yet today our country stands at [...] drive innovation and promote economic growth.



Advantage 1: Get Off the Rock


Numerous credible existential threats to the planet – resource depletion, disease, droughts, famine, climate change, asteroid strikes

Popular Science 11 (March, “After Earth: Why? Where? How? When?” p. 46, Vol. 278, No. 3)
Earth won't always be fit for [...] off the Earth than on it."

Extinction is inevitable- nuke war, bioweapons, overpopulation, warming
Leslie 99 [John, Lifeboat Foundation Scientific Advisory Board member, “Risking Human Extinction”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/risking.human.extinction]
What chance has the human race [...] not yet been taken into account."


Human survival has been a matter of touch and go – it is foolish to keep our eggs in one basket

CNN 8 (quoting Stepehen Hawking, Oct 9, “Hawking: If we survive the next 200 years, we should be OK”)

CAMBRIDGE, England (CNN) [...] hold the key to our survival."



Dispersal of humanity across space is key to reducing existential threats to Earth – other species extinction cases prove

Sowers, 2 (George, transhumanist, “The Transhumanist Case for Space,” April, http://www.georgesowers.com/Other_pdf/The_trans_case_for_space.pdf)

What can we do to maximize [...] own stupidity or just bad luck.



Now is key - population and resource pressures will undermine colonization plans if we delay

Hender 9 (Matthew, August, University of Adelaide School of Mechanical Engineering, “Colonization: A Permanent Habitat for the Colonization of Mars,”http://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/2440/61315/3/02chapters1-4.pdf)

It is considered that we should [...] do so whilst resources are available.



Discovery of water catapulted the moon to the most practical colonization destination and a critical launching pad for deep space

Bryner 09 (Jeanna, senior writer for Space, “Water Discovery Fuels Hope to Colonize the Moon” November 13, http://www.space.com/7532-water-discovery-fuels-hope-colonize-moon.html)

Hopes, dreams and practical plans [...] ," Burns told SPACE.com.



Low-cost water-derived propellants from the Moon will quickly transform and invigorate space exploration


Stone 2011 (Bill, CEO of Shackleton Energy, interview with Mike Wall, Space.com senior writer, “Mining the Moon's Water: Q & A with
Shackleton Energy's Bill Stone,” January 13, http://www.space.com/10619-mining-moon-water-bill-stone-110114.html)

It costs about $10, [...] opportunity is wide open to anyone.

Colonization’s the only way to ensure human survival---we won’t be able to predict what causes extinction which means all counter-measures will fail
Gott 9 – J. Richard Gott, Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton University, July 17, 2009, “A GOAL FOR THE HUMAN SPACEFLIGHT PROGRAM,” online: http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf
The goal of the human spaceflight [...] seem the logical place to start.

The Resources for a permanent colony are available on the moon
JÄRVSTRÅT 02(Niklas March-April, Ph.D. on high temperature behavior of metals “Ad Astra: To the Stars” http://moon-isru.com/information/AdAstra2002.pdf)

On the Moon, all that [...] life are present in reasonable quantity.

Underground colonies protect against radiation, solar flares, meteorites, and other hazards


Schrunk et al. 7 – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, p. xli, p. SpringerLink, MV)

I.2.4 Protection [...] between the Earth and the Moon.

Space colonization is feasible- adaptation solves
Frank White, author, 1987, The Overview Effect, p. 172-173

Beyond these considerations, of course [...] evolutionary ladder to a galactic civilization.


Acknowledging the feasibility of known technology ends resource conflicts that will culminate in nuclear war – low space travel costs are key

Collins and Autino, 10 (Patrick and Adriano, Life and Environmental Science, Azabu University and Andromeda, Inc., “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)

The major source of social friction [...] of a vigorous space tourism industry.

Space colonization enables nuclear survival
Fred Koschara, computer programmer, 2001, http://www.l5development.com/fkespace/financial-return.html,
Potentially one of the greatest benefits [...] best hope we're not too late.


Advantage 2: Leadership

We isolate 2 internal links:

First is ally support. Unilateral abandonment of lunar base plans has shaken our international standing and undermines our allies’ willingness to accept U.S. leadership

Newton 11 (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, with Michael D. Griffin, United States space policy and international partnership, Space Policy 27 n 1)
The president’s request and congressional authorization [...] Moon if it is not present?



Bypassing the Moon relinquishes a powerful symbol of U.S. technological superiority and deals a blow to its superpower status

Quek 2010 (Tracy, US Correspondent for Straits Times, “Skipping the Moon: One Giant Leap Back for U.S.” The Straits Times, 3 May,
L/N)

However, some fear bypassing the [...] banking, media, shipping and airlines



Second is human space flight. Commitment to human spaceflight is a key signal of American leadership

Vergano 10 (Dan, Jan. 29, USA Today, “Has USA hit its final frontier in space; Tight budgets and success of unmanned missions could shackle human exploration,” http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/space/2010-01-19-space19_CV_N.htm)

In June, Obama appointed the [...] . But something has to give.



And leadership in deep-space exploration is the key component of U.S. global leadership
Stone, 11
[Christopher Stone is a space policy analyst and strategist who lives near Washington DC., “ American leadership in space: leadership through capability,” Space Review, March 14, 2011 ]

When it comes to space exploration [...] “worthy of a great nation”.

Moon colonization allows for detection and deflection of NEO asteroids – solves extinction

Schrunk et al. 7 – Faculty Member of the Kepler Space Institute (Dr. David G., author and Founder of the Quality of Laws Institute; Madhu Thangavelu, works with the Department Of Aerospace Engineering & School of Architecture at the University of Southern California, lecturer for a graduate seminar in Extreme Environment Habitat Design as part of the USC School of Architecture, former Conductor of the Space Exploration Architectures Concept and Synthesis Studio in the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering in the School of Engineering at USC, former Space Projects Director for the Calearth Institute, Advisory Board Member for the Los Angeles Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Burton L. Sharpe, participant in mission operations planning and execution of the Gemini, Apollo, and Viking NASA space programs; Dr. Bonnie L. Cooper, from Oceaneering Space Systems in Houston; The Moon: Resources, Future Development, and Settlement, 2nd edition, p. 36, p. SpringerLink, MV)

2.3.3. [...] raw materials (see Chapter 10).


U.S. hegemony is key to preventing multiple global nuclear conflicts
Robert Kagan, 2007 senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [“End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, web)

Finally, there is the United [...] involvement will provide an easier path.


Observation 2 is Solvency:

Moon’s proximity makes it ideal for colonization – permits setting up a functioning lunar installation in advance and retrieving assets at any time

Spudis and Lavoie 2010 (Paul, Lunar and Planetary Institute, and Tony Lavoie, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center. 
“Mission and Implementation of an Affordable Lunar Return,” December 19,
http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Papers/Affordable_Lunar_Base.pdf)

The Moon is the closest planetary [...] from the Moon at any time.

Space Launch System solves- new heavy lift rocket for colonization
Pasztor 9/15/11. [Andy Pasztor, Associated Press Staff Writer. September 15th, 2011. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904060604576570583021682082.html?KEYWORDS=Space+Launch+System. “NASA’s Aim for Rocket: Deep Space.” Accessed: September 2011//SL]

NASA unveiled plans Wednesday for a [...] the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.


Moon is accessible with existing launch systems for only modest increase in budget

Spudis 2005 (Paul, staff at Johns Hopkins Univ. Applied Physics Laboratory. “The Moon: A New Destination in Space for America,” in
Return to the Moon, ed. Rick Tumlinson & Erin Medlicott, p. 23)

The Moon is close, accessible [...] modest increase in the space budget.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]