[[toc]]
=**Security K**= 

===1NC=== 

The idea of catastrophe management results in an endless cycle of problems to be fixed.
Der Derian 2005
(Brown, James International Studies, Predicting the Present, Vol. 27 (3) - Fall 2005, http://hir.harvard.edu/articles/1430/)

It often takes a catastrophe to reveal the... the capacity of conventional language itself.


Their apocalypse justifies biopoltical genocide

Coviello 2000

(Peter, Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On.”)
This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag's incisive observation... otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

Reject the aff’s employment of security – individual criticism can create terrains of dissent.
Anthony Burke, School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland. Alternatives 27, 2002.
It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but as ... and what its shimmering possi­bilities might be.


===2NC Framework=== 

Security discourse defines who deserves authority – these discourses shape policy by determining what can and cannot be thought Lipschutz 1998 Ronnie, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, 1998. “On Security” p. 7 
Conceptualizations of security ... as it is of discursive practices."

Assuming that politics has an endpoint without looking at the justifications and processes that lead to that politics results in devastating consequences by destroying the agency of discussing the linguistic acts that lead to political choice 
Bleiker 2000 (Roland, Popular Dissent, Agency, and Global Politics, p.242-243)
No dissenting writer can hope to ... discursive boundaries of global politics.

===2NC Perm=== 

Combinations of the alternative and the state result in the cooption of intellectuals into a political, interventionist sphere Shampa BISWAS, Prof – Politics, Whitman, 2007 "Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist" Millennium 36 (1) 
While it is no surprise that the US academy ... contemporary context preceding and following the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

===AT: Threats Real=== 
The mindset of endless threats is a self-fulfilling prophecy leading to the constant creation of more threats Lipschutz 1998 Ronnie, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, “On Security” p. 8 
Security is, to put Wæver's argument in other words ... in this respect, their relationship is intersubjective.



=Cap K= 


===1NC=== 
Capitalism expands by exploring and developing space. Dickens ’10 [Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] 
The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside” ... companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

Capitalism necessitates nuclear war and is the root of the aff’s impacts. Webb ’04 [Sam, masters in econ at uconn, “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” 2004, http://www.pww.org/article/view/4967/1/207/O/] 
Capitalism was never a warm, cuddly ... in large measure on the outcome of political struggle.

The alternative is to stop the humanization of space. Dickens ’09 [Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, May, The Sociological Review, Vol. 57, Iss. Supp. s1, p. 68-82] 
If Rosa Luxemburg’s theory of imperialism is correct ... crises on Planet Earth are currently far more compelling.


===K aff link=== 
Social movements in debate only create more space within capitalism and abandon changing the system. Young ’06 [Robert, Associate Professor of English, works in the area of contemporary African-American literary and cultural theory, contemporary social theory, and materialism, Red Critique, Winter/Spring, “Putting Materialism back into Race Theory”, 2006, http://www.redcritique.org/WinterSpring2006/puttingmaterialismbackintoracetheory.htm] 
Gilroy endorses the new social movements precisely ... politics to the cultural (re)negotiations of identity.