[[toc]]
=Aff Stuff= 

==Util== 

**Extinction comes first**
**<span class="cite">__Bok, 88__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sissela, Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis, Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory, Rosenthal and Shehadi, Ed.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The same argument can be ….. simplicity of Kant’s moral theory. </span>


**Extinction must be avoided at all costs**
**<span class="cite">__Schell, 82__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonothan, The Fate of the Earth, p. 184-186)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The death of our …..</span><span class="underline0"> the world on our shoulders.</span>

**Cultivation of risk assessment skills is key to survival**
**<span class="cite">__Scruton, 4__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger, Former Columnist for the Financial Times, National Interest, Summer, p. 150)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This suggests another and deeper …..</span><span class="underline0"> risks, but choosing between them.</span>

**Right to life outweighs all other considerations**
**<span class="cite">__Kateb, 92__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, Professor at Princeton, The Inner Ocean: Individualism and Democratic Culture, p. 12-13)</span>

<span class="underline0">For the state to override </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. if they resist being sacrificed. </span>



**Worst case scenarios must come first – even a tiny risk of our impact means you vote negative – privileging their feel-good impacts means extinction**
**<span class="cite">__Bostrom, 2002__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.doc)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Previous sections have argued that …... </span><span class="BodyTextChar">**__if we play our cards right.__**</span>


**We agree that assessing the risk of extinction is difficult, however, it still must be evaluated – the only framework for evaluation is magnitude times probability**
**<span class="cite">__Matheny, 2007__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reudcing the Risk of Human Extinction”, Risk Analysis, Vol. 27 No. 5, http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In this article, I discuss …..</span><span class="BodyTextChar"> **__to invest in extinction countermeasures.__**</span>



==Consequences== 

**Consequences matter – the tunnel vision of moral absolutism generates evil and political irrelevance**
**<span class="cite">__Issac, 2__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politics, in large part, involves …. </span>**__And it undermines political effectiveness.__**

==AT: Extinction Inevitable== 

**Violence and extinction are not inevitable – human ingenuity, technology and democracy mean that the probability of human survival is higher than ever before**
**<span class="cite">__Peiser, 2007__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Benny, Ph.D. and Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, “Existential Risks and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In recent years</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">leading ….. any hitherto stage of history.</span>


**Whoever accesses extinction __first__ wins – the human race can only die once. Their extinction impact has no timeframe; prolonging extinction is critical because we may discover solutions down the road**
**<span class="cite">__Bostrum, 2002__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Ph.D. Faculty of Philosophy at Oxford University, http://www.anthropic-principle.com/primer1.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The last step is to transpose ….. belong to the same reference class.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deontology Bad</span>== 
**Deontology is bad in the context of public policy – multiple reasons**
**<span class="cite">__Woller, 97__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary, Economics Professor at BYU, Policy Currents, June, http://apsapolicysection.org/vol7_2/72.pdf , p. 11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span>deontologically <span style="font-size: 8pt;">….. public policy in a democracy.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nuclear War Comes First</span>== 
**Any risk of nuclear use should be avoided at all costs – it must be evaluated first because extinction is the inevitable result**
**<span class="cite">__Kateb,92__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George, Professor at Princeton, The Inner Ocean: Individualism and Democratic Culture, p. 110-112)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The highest worth of Schell’s ….. the least forfeit their offices. </span>


**Nuclear war is the biggest possible impact – even a small risk outweighs**
**<span class="cite">__Seely, 86__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rob, H.O.N-V: 289-290)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Supporters of U.S. and Soviet …..</span><span class="underline0"> under any sane moral code.</span>


**Prioritizing the impact of nuclear war is an essential expression of ethics and respect for life**
**<span class="cite">__Bidwai and Vanaik, 2000__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Praful and Achin, Journalists and Anti-Nuclear Activists, “New Nukes: India, Pakistan, and Global Nuclear Disarmament”, p. 3)</span>


=<span style="font-size: 25px;">Neg Stuff</span>= 
==Framework== 

===1nc=== 
**1. “Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Army Officer School 4</span>** (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)

The colon introduces <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the following…..</span> this council petition <span class="underline">the mayor.</span>

**2. “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is __solely about__ the outcome of a policy established by governmental means. They aren’t topical because they do not act through the USFG but through the judge**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ericson 3</span>** (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging ….. the future action that you propose. </span>
**D. Topicality is a voting issue for fairness and outweighs all other issues because without it, debate is impossible**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shively 00</span>** (Ruth Lessl, Assistant Prof Political Science – Texas A&M U., Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-182)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The requirements given thus far ….. some basic agreement or harmony.</span>

===Link – Activism=== 
**Education --- debate is the __wrong pedagogical location__ to train students in activism**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 00</span>** (Ross, Debate Coach – Wake Forest U., “Dialogue on Kritiks”, Debaters Research Guide, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Smith&Groves2000.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But you say we have ….. production, </span><span class="underline">and networking, among others</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**If activist success is the criteria for the ballot, vote Neg on presumption --- activism in debate doesn’t produce “real world” change**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solt 4</span>** (Roger, Debate Coach – U. Kentucky, “Debate’s Culture of Narcissism”, Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Vol. 25, p. 46)

<span class="underline">In another early formulation, critical …..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span><span class="underline">fast, short, competitive </span>debates<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Link – Narratives=== 

**Privileging personal narratives squelches debate and ruins the ‘switch-side’ model**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stannard 6</span>** (Matt, Director of Forensics and Associate Editor – U. Wyoming, “Deliberation, Democracy, and Debate”, Spring, 4-28, [[http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the Academy is not ….. sides of the ideological spectrum.</span>

===Grammar 2NC=== 

**Its 100 percent defense --- all of their arguments are indictments of a policy __topic__, not a reason that, __once given__ that topic, they should be able to debate in a different way. Because the topic is decidedly policy-oriented, this has to be a voting issue**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 3</span>** (Ross, Debate Coach – Wake Forest U., “From Kritik to Performance and Back to Topicality”, Debaters Research Guide, http://groups.wfu.edu/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Crtique2003.htm)

Debate cannot be ….. lose to those who do<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Limits Good=== 

**Participation --- broad topics destroy entire programs**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rowland 84</span>** (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-54)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first major problem identified by ….. schools to cancel their programs. </span>

**Basic limits are necessary to effective resistance –-- they govern deliberative democracy and are essential to prevent violence and tyranny**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shively 00</span>** (Ruth Lessl, Assistant Prof Political Science – Texas A&M U., Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 184)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point here is that </span><span class="underline">…..</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">without their conscious, rational assent.</span>

===AT: C/I – General=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">They say theirs better because of technicism, but No scenario for escalation – ethnic conflicts remain localized and are exaggerated by the West</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">FPA 05</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Recently in Focus”, Foreign Policy Association, http://www.fpa.org/newsletter_info2482/newsletter_info_sub_list.htm?section=Ethnicity)</span>
In [[http://www.fpa.org/pubs_inventory2416/pubs_inventory_list.htm?attrib_id=2286|Great Decisions 2001]], I. William ….. motives have skewed its importance.
==<span style="font-size: 25px;">Cap K</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 15px;">1nc</span>=== 

**Quick fix in space causes cap and imperialism**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens</span>** Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>** Peter Sociological Review wiley online

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Explanatory primacy is given here …..</span><span class="underline"> a </span>temporary<span class="underline">, sticking-plaster, variety</span>.





**Resisting reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek and Daly 2k4</span>** (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek it is …..</span> __in an otherwise sound matrix.__



**The notion of endorsing the plan despite its inability to create actual change is the same empty gesture that defines the sociopath – the refusal to question the validating of this model of communication negates that every choice we make with language is indicative of a meta-choice. Only the criticism answers the question of why we continue to make the choice to defend this pathological method of debate, and acknowledges that this foundational decision dictates and limits our potentiality.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek 2009</span>** How to Read Lacan, Empty Gestures and Performatives [[http://www.lacan.com/essays/?p=88]]



__The notion of the social link established__ __…..__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a certain attitude to life.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capitalism precludes ethics because it preferences economic valuation to any other method of judging the world </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgareidge</span>** Prof of Philosophy at Lewis & Clark College **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span>** Clayton Why Capitalism is Evil 08/22 http://www.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now none of these philosophers …..</span> __a seat__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the table.</span>





**Demand for urgency is a product of hypocritical outrage meant to extend the privilege of global capitalism – our alternative is to do nothing in the face of the affirmative**

**Zizek 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Slavoj Violence p 6-8</span>



__Let’s think about the fake ….. learn” what causes this violence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>