Levinas AC:
VC: Maximizing understanding of the other
1. Ontology
2. Moral Agreement
3. We cannot know the I without understanding the other. **Wood in** 06’
<span style="color: #1d1d1d; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">There</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **__the transcendental ...__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">possible</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">at al</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">4</span> We cannot use predetermined logic or knowledge to understand the other; doing so actually alienates them, we must first meet them.**Beavers in 90’**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony F. Beavers. **“**</span>**<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Introducing Levinas to Undergraduate Philosophers</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">”.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> This paper was originally presented as a colloquy paper to the Undergraduate Philosophy Association at the University of Texas at Austin, 1990. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://faculty.evansville.edu/tb2/PDFs/UndergradPhil.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If we can accept ...</span>on the environment.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">5.</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Knowledge actually objectifies the Other and cannot be used to understand the Other. **Gottlieb in 94’**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ETHICS AND TRAUMA: LEVINAS, FEMINISM, AND DEEP ECOLOGY, Roger S. **__Gottlieb__**, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Cross Currents Summer 19**94**, Vol. 44 Issue 2, p222, 19p,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Levinas seeks to ... site for ethics.</span>
Converse theory:
reciprocity
<span style="color: black;">Even if, the negative says the individuals should have autonomy, that autonomy is only meaningful if that duty expresses the obligations to other. **Herman in 01’**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Barbara Herman, “The Scope Of Moral Requirement,” Philosophy & Public Affairs. (Summer, 2001). Pg. 236</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">For</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">human rational agents... </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">our moral deliberations.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">**__Contention 1: Allowing suffering to happen distances ourselves away from the other.__**</span>
# Allowing the Other to suffer distances ourselves from them even further; therefore, we must alleviate this suffering in order to understand the Other. **Hasan in 92’**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.meteoritejournal.com/pdfs/3.Levinas.Phenomenon.of.Suffering.pdf]], The Meteorite Journal, student journal of philosophy from the university of Michigan,EMMANUEL LEVINAS AND THE PHENOMENON OF SUFFERING ETHICS, VOICE, REPRESENTATION, Rafeeq Hasan, 1992</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">In “Useless Suffering,” ....</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">helplessness, abandonment, and solitude.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">**__2.__** </span>Taking action against another’s suffering and suffering from their suffering is the key to understanding the Other. **Hasan in 92’ (discourse on why the system of morality must be to go to the other)**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.meteoritejournal.com/pdfs/3.Levinas.Phenomenon.of.Suffering.pdf]], The Meteorite Journal, student journal of philosophy from the university of Michigan,EMMANUEL LEVINAS AND THE PHENOMENON OF SUFFERING ETHICS, VOICE, REPRESENTATION, Rafeeq Hasan, 1992</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Yet this very</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">3. </span>Responsibility towards the Other must come in the form of action, the judge must vote affirmative to show that recognition of the other.**Irwin in 01’**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anderson-Irwin, doctoral candidate in the Graduate Programme in Social and Political Thought @ York University, 2001 [Chris, Beyond Economy, or the Infinite Debt to the Other: Caputo and Derrida on Obligation and Responsibility], No. 3 | June] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">To say this about ... </span>of all others.
Comes before all other args
Presume Aff:
1. Number of worlds:
2. Time skew
**Theory 1AC**

Observartion 1 is Theory

Subpoint A is fairness
Textuality - <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">According to the New Oxford American Dictionary, an individual: “a distinctive or original person,” and a government is “the group of persons in office at a particular time.”</span>

Advocacy Shift

Subpoint B is Education
1. Depth
2. Real-World

Subpoint C is Weighing
1. Scope of F
2. Education unique to debate
3. Education prerequisite to activity

Subpoint D is Pre-Empts
1. Plans okay with disclosure
2. Jurisdiction
3. Textuality sufficient.
4. Plan gives ground

Observation 2 is Framework

Value is morality- <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nielsen – philosophy prof, Calgary – 93Kai Nielsen, Professor of Philosophy, University of Calgary, Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics, ed. Joram Graf Haber, 1993, p. 170-2 </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17.3333px;">“The consequentialist is… a moral evasion” </span>


Comparative standard is stopping genocide- <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">ICISS, __The Responsibility to Protect: Research, Bibliography, Background__, December 2001.</span>

“Obligations for negative … obligated to respect”

Observation 3 is the Plan Text: Governments should adopt the stance that they should act to stop genocide when it is occurring. I reserve the right to clarify.

Observation 4 is the Inherency: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">CBS in ‘11. “Ex-Lebanon Leader: Christians Target of Genocide”, January 3, 2011, 11:09 AM, CBS News World,[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011/01/03/world/main7208414.shtml]], </span>
“Extremist groups are … extremists as well”

Observation 5 is offense.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A FAILURE OF PERSPECTIVE: MORAL ASSUMPTIONS AND GENOCIDE, Naomi Kaplan, evaluates: “A PROBLEM FROM HELL”: AMERICA AND THE AGE OF GENOCIDE. By Samantha </span><span style="color: #008000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm|Power]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. New York: Basic Books 2002. Pp. 592., [[http://www.bc.edu/dam/files/schools/law/lawreviews/journals/bctwj/23_2/05_TXT.htm]], </span>
“From the perspective…prevent a third”


Observation 6 is that the presumption goes aff.
**Individuals 1AC**

All definitions come from the New Oxford American Dictionary

Value is morality- Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy

“The term morality … code of conduct”

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Erik Carlson. “DELIBERATION, FOREKNOWLEDGE, AND MORALITY AS A GUIDE TO ACTION.” Erkenntnis 57: 71–89, 2002. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Without the requirement ,,, ordinary normative concepts” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">\</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The standard is taking an active approach to stop genocide. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This is an ethical obligation we must embrace – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">ICISS, __The Responsibility to Protect: Research, Bibliography, Background__, December 2001.</span>

“Obligations for negative … ensuing moral responsibility”



Genocide should weigh as the largest impact under any framework
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Claudia, prof of philosophy (Ph.D from Harvard), Senior-Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities, Genocide and Social Death,Hypatia, vol. 18, no. 1, Winter]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Genocide is not … concept of genocide.” </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Outcomes matter regardless of intention</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nielsen – philosophy prof, Calgary – 93Kai Nielsen, Professor of Philosophy, University of Calgary, Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics, ed. Joram Graf Haber, 1993, p. 170-2 </span>

“The consequentialist is ..constitute a moral evasion”




Individuals make a difference in the fight against genocide
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Kathleen Renee</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cronin-Furman</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">; graduate of Columbia Law School. She is one of the editors of the blog Wronging Rights; Article and Essay: 60 Years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Towards an Individual Responsibility to Protect; American University International Law Review; </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">. lexis</span>

“ some of the … recognition and observance.”


Genocide is something that we perpetuate
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Jayan Nayar, Law Student at the University of Warwick, Re-Framing International Law for the 21st Century: Orders of Inhumanity, 9 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems 599, Fall 1999</span>

“ my questioning is … dare not speak”


Lastly, presumption goes aff.
== == 
== == 
==[[#November-December-Negative]][[#November-December-Negative]]Negative== 
CFK 2
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Link 1: Whenever we confront suffering, we are increasingly numb to the suffering of others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moeller, //Compassion Fatigue,// 1999, p. 9-13</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"The first time... of news images."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Link 2: The guiltier we feel, the less the need to take real action since we figure that confessions are sufficient.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bruckner [1], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"What they aim... no longer responsible."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 1: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The more we are confronted with suffering psychoanalytically, we begin to feel numb to bigger things.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Paul Slovic, //Judgement and Decision Making,// 2007, p. 79-95</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Our cognitive and... and saving 88."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 2: Representing pain does nothing productive; we always reproduce it in order to keep the comforting images coming, we will act.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bruckner [2], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Our own comfort... to be catastrophe."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 3: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Showing compassion for the oppressed instrumentalizes their suffering. The AC destroys moral agency and uses them for a means.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Beer, //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"it is the... are promptly forgotten."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alternative: Reject the Aff's call for an obligation to those in need because they advocate . Not only are the harms prolonged in the AC's world, but they cause us to perpetuate the problem to satisfy our own guilt to a point where we make the problem worse by denying moral agency to them. Even if you don't buy that, the AC causes compassion fatigue which leads to desensitization of bigger issues. The impacts turn the AC on its own framework because they THINK they're solving one issue, but in reality, the action of assisting those in need is bad in the long run. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Framework: </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Framework: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Questions of representations come first – the language we use and the framing of issues is the most important question as it informs all our actions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Doty, //Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Representation is an... series of dichotomies"</span>


**Nietzsche K**

Section 1 is the Link:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Their thesis is that morality can infuse action even without proof of a transcendental placeholder from which it is derived. But it is precisely in such a condition, when the telos of the good has vanished and the yearning for it remains, that morality transforms into its cheap opposite---a moralizing vengeance serving only as a hysterical mask for the vertigo of God’s vacuum. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Wendy </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Brown</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Political Theory @ UC Berkeley, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.6667px;">2k1</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Politics Out of History. P 28-29</span>
"but the loss...postmodernism, or theory"

Their affirmative responds to the crisis of nihilism via the strategy of the Last Man—their attempt to abolish suffering from the world through identifying a moral obligation to assist people in need results in absolute leveling of difference the culmination of which is a suicidal nihilism in which life becomes truly meaningless as we passively await our own deaths.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David Owen, Social Science—University of Southampton, and Aaron Ridley, Philosophy—University of Southampton, 2000.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 10.6667px; text-align: justify;">Why Nietzsche Still? Reflections on Drama, Culture, and Politics, ed. Alan d. Schrift, p. 149-54</span>
"The modern condition...Dionsysus, not Apollo"

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The vision of morality which grounds the 1AC is based on tyrannical view of human nature which ensures the world can only appear to us impure—means life can never be worth living in their framework. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Martin **Drenthen**, Philosophy and Science StudiesRadboud University of Nijmegen//,// </span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">2005</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">“Wildness as a Critical Border Concept: Nietzsche and the Debate on Wilderness Restoration,” Environmental Values, Volume 14, Number 3, August 2005 , pp. 317-337(21)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">"Nietzsche tries to give...nature around us"</span>


Section 2 is the Impact:



Focusing on suffering of the weak devalues life – we need to affirm existence. Tevenar:
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tevenar 5 (Gurdren von, Prof of Philosophy @ Birkbeck University, “Nietzsche’s Objections to Pity and Compassion,” [[http://www.bbk.ac.uk/phil/staff/academics/gemes-work/GurdrenvonTevenar18Oct05]]) Zanezor</span>
"Yet before we...fail to affirm"

Section 3 is the Alternative: Reject the aff in favor of embracing amor fati.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;"> Say yes to the world in its totality.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 10.6667px; text-align: justify;">David Owen**,** Social Science—University of Southhampton, 1995 Nietzsche, Politics & Modernity, p. 112-5</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">"What kind of...experience amor fati"</span>

Section 4 is the Underview:

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Suffering is inevitable.</span> The perm is impossible.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Wrisley No Date (George, Prof of Philosophy @ U Iowa, “What Should Our Attitude Towards Suffering Be,” Nietzsche and Suffeirng- A Choice of Attitudes and Ideals,[[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=site%3Ageorgewrisley.com+What+Should+Our+Attitude+Towards+Suffering+Be&aq=f&oq=&aqi]]=) Zanezor</span>
"We have now...pit of snakes"

Section 5 is the Framework:
1. The focus of debate is not about living and dying; it is a question of ontology—what it means to be alive.
2. Ontology first.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Campbell and Shapiro 96 eds., //Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics// (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1999) pg. 96</span>
"As Heidegger-himself...modern political thought"

Skep NC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Converse burden theory.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Individuals can only have moral obligations if they have free will. Humans are not morally responsible for their actions. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">GALEN </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">STRAWSON</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MORAL RESPONSIBILITY' (Received 15 September1993) Philosophical Studies 75: 5-24, 1994.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is undeniable…for their actions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CFK 1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Link 1: Whenever we confront suffering, we are increasingly numb to the suffering of others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moeller, //Compassion Fatigue,// 1999, p. 9-13</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"The first time... of news images."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Link 2: The guiltier we feel, the less the need to take real action since we figure that confessions are sufficient.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bruckner [1], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"What they aim... no longer responsible."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 1: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The more we are confronted with suffering psychoanalytically, we begin to feel numb to bigger things.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Paul Slovic, //Judgement and Decision Making,// 2007, p. 79-95</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Our cognitive and... and saving 88."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 2: Representing pain does nothing productive; we always reproduce it in order to keep the comforting images coming, we will act.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bruckner [2], //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Our own comfort... to be catastrophe."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Impact 3: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Showing compassion for the oppressed instrumentalizes their suffering. The AC destroys moral agency and uses them for a means.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Beer, //The Tears of the White Man,// 1986</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"it is the... are promptly forgotten."</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alternative: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Reject the Aff's representations of suffering **(and/or)** big impacts. Our alternative is not inconsistent with the call for a moral obligation but instead is a kritik of the affirmative representations. The NC solves for the AC without the harms in the language implications the AC's strategy brings about. </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Framework: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Questions of representations come first – the language we use and the framing of issues is the most important question as it informs all our actions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Doty, //Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, 1996</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">"Representation is an... series of dichotomies"</span>