[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

==T- Human== 
**A. Interpretation - Exploration means to expand humyn presence to space**
<span class="s2">**Logsdon, 9 –** </span>professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute(John, “Fifty Years of Humyn Spaceflight //Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”// http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)
Exploration as a Compelling Rationale
Many believe that the only … of the several “secondary objectives.”

**Development means humyn**
<span class="s2">**Livingston 07**</span> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

<span class="s1">Eric Westling is ascience writer</span><span class="s3">, … </span><span class="s1">**(staffed) commercial projects in space**</span><span class="s3">. </span>

**B. Violation – the affirmative doesn’t increase humyn missions in space**

**C. Voting issue –**

**1. limits – they allow all robotic missions and satellites, this could be dozens of small additional affs**

**2. negative ground – we don’t have disad links to launching one additional probe – humyn missions are visible and contentious, and the core of the debate**

**For global distribution is extra topical:**
**Voting issue for predictable limits – allowing them to go outside of resolutional action opens up the floodgates to literally anything – there’s no way to predict the infinite amounts of extra-topical advantages they can garner**



==<span class="s1">**Jackson Vanik DA**</span>== 

<span class="s1">**Jackson Vanik repeal coming now – Obama has launched an all-out push. Capital is key**</span>
<span class="s1">**Verona 3-29** [Ed, pres and CEO of the US-Russia Business Council, “The true cost of Jackson-Vanik,” National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/the-true-cost-jackson-vanik-6702?page=1</span>
<span class="s1">In January, the </span><span class="s4">Obama</span><span class="s1"> administration ...</span><span class="s4"> members of Russia’s political opposition</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Expanding space exploration is perceived as controversial new spending -- guarantees backlash.**
<span class="s6">**Handberg, 11**</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
The US space program remained … ball approach becomes your mantra.

<span class="s1">**Obama’s capital is key**</span>
<span class="s1">**Allison and Blackwill 11** [Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill October 2011 Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Harvard University Russia and U.S. National Interests: Why Should Americans Care? A Report of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interest Graham Allison Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Assistant Secretary of Defense in the first Clinton Administration Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. Deputy national security adviser for strategic planning under President George W. Bush, presidential envoy to Iraq and was the administration’s coordinator for U.S. policies regarding Afghanistan and Iran]</span>
<span class="s7">Finally, given the disparities ...</span><span class="s1"> topic like American policy toward Russia</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Failure to repeal undermines US-Russia relations**
**Miller 11** [Jacqueline, senior associate, “The WTO and the Reset” EastWest Institute -- April 8 --http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]
It took Barack Obama several … Russia and <span class="s4">**the U.S.-Russia relationship**</span><span class="s8">.</span>

**Relations solve nuclear war and turn the case**
<span class="s1">**Allison** **and Blackwill** **11** [Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs 10-30, "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]</span>
<span class="s1">That central point is that R... in advancing our national interests.</span>


==<span class="s1">**Oil DA**</span>== 

<span class="s1">**Oil prices high now**</span>
<span class="s4">**McCarthy, 4/21/**</span><span class="s1">12 //(//Shawn //is a// </span>national business correspondent for The Globe and Mail, covering global energy, http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/industry-news/energy-and-resources/high-oil-prices-threatened-by-high-oil-prices/article2409670/)
<span class="s1">The fivefold increase in oil … here, and stay high into 2013.</span>


<span class="s1">**SSP reduces dependence on oil – lowers prices** </span>
<span class="s4">**Aviation Week 7**</span><span class="s1"> (‘NSSO Backs Space Solar Power’ http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?id=news/solar101107.xml&headline=NSSO%20Backs%20Space%20Solar%20Power%20&channel=space kdej)</span>
<span class="s1">Collecting solar power in space … </span><span class="s4">SSP to spur its development.</span>


**High prices causes a shift to algae biofuels**
**MarketWatch 2-25**-11 [Steve Gelsi is a reporter for MarketWatch, Energy players weigh effects of $100 oil, http://www.marketwatch.com/story/energy-players-weigh-effects-of-100-oil-2011-02-25]
While this week’s oil price … <span class="s4">no doubt</span> about it,” he said.

**Solves oil dependence**
**Clanton 07** (Brett, Houston Chronicle, 10/8, “Could West Texas algae curb oil dependence?,” lexis)
Selected strains The bags also … <span class="s4">need arable land</span>," he said.

**Algae will reuse sewage and waste water to create phosphorus fertilizer**
**Hodge, 08** (Nick, The Green Chip Review, October, “Investing in Algae Biofuel”,
[[%22http://www.greenchi|http://www.greenchipstocks.com/report/investing-in-algae-biofuel/109]])
<span class="s4">It is possible to use … </span>extracting C02 from the air.

**Current phosphorus shortages risk extinction**
**Osava, 07 -** correspondant for Inter Press Service (Mario, “Farming faces phosphate shortfall,” 10/15, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/35851]])
RIO DE JANEIRO - <span class="s4">Scarcity of … </span>held Sep. 26 in Sao Paulo.


==<span class="s1">**Privitization CP**</span>== 
**The United States federal government should provide tax credits and advance civilian power purchase agreements for the commercial development of solar power satellites in 3 hour Sub-Molniya Orbits and utilize Fresnal lenses to concentrate solar energy for a High Concentration Photovoltaic power systemand for global distribution and negotiate all necessary international agreements governing the deployment on behalf of industry.**

**‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, <span class="s4">its</span>, … shows that it belongs to me.)

**Government development of SPS risks bureaucratic mismanagement and over-specification of performance standards – it will eliminate commercial applications**
<span class="s2">**Nansen, 95**</span>– founder and president of Solar Space Industries. He has been recognized as one of the key leaders in the world to develop, promote, and manage the Solar Power Satellite program since 1973. (Ralph, Sun Power: The Global Solution for the Coming Energy Crisis, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower14.html)
<span class="s3">The Government Development Option.</span> <span class="s1">A logical … , thus impeding the whole operation.</span>

**SSP tech might exist but isn’t even close to mature – current capabilities don’t create a business case and NASA tech development programs have been gutted.**
<span class="s2">**Day, 9**</span> - senior program officer at the National Research Council’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board (part of the National Academies, which includes the National Academy of Sciences). He is currently directing several studies for NASA and the U.S. Air Force, including a study of the role and size of the activities conducted by NASA’s astronaut office, a study of NASA’s aeronautics flight test research program, and the Space Studies Board’s recently concluded planetary science decadal survey. He has previously served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, was the first historian for the Congressional Budget Office, and held both Guggenheim and Verville Fellowships at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)
<span class="s3">You don’t have to spend … </span><span class="s1">the activists are excited about.</span>

**Technological risk and cost overruns …** (Purple = Air Force, Blue = DoD)
<span class="s2">**Rendleman and Faulconer,** **11**</span> - * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 2, High Frontier, August, <span class="s2">**http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-030.pdf)**</span>
<span class="s1">Space systems, even quick and … and costs were consistently underestimated.”10</span>

==<span class="s1">**OTEC CP**</span>== 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology as well as increase incentives for algae biofuels. The United States Federal Government should increase global distribution of non-fossil fuel energy.**

<span class="s1">**The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming**</span>
<span class="s1">**Galbraith, 09** (4/12/09, Kate, The New York … , which stop in calm conditions.</span>

**Increased launches collapse ozone**
**Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields**
Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html
<span class="s7">Rocket emissions have two distinct … </span>stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.

**Extinction**
**Thomas 6**
William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm
<span class="s1">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns … shielding—but the stratosphere itself.</span>


==<span class="s1">**Fossil Fuel Adv**</span>== 

**Existence outweighs other impacts. It is necessary for the “I” that can behave ethically or create meaning.**

**Gelven ’94** (Michael, Prof. Phil. – Northern Illinois U., “War and Existence: A Philosophical Inquiry”, p. 136-137)
<span class="s1">The personal pronouns, like "I" and "We," … beyond human appeal or persuasion</span><span class="s9">.</span>


**Preventing war key to solve structural violence**
**Folk 78,** Professor of Religious and Peace Studies at Bethany College, 1978 **[**Jerry, “Peace Educations – Peace Studies : Towards an Integrated Approach,” Peace & Change, volume V, number 1, Spring, p. 58]
<span class="s1">Those proponents of the positive … </span><span class="s3">of view </span><span class="s1">of negative peace.</span>


==<span class="s1">**Ethics Adv**</span>== 

**Status quo development solves human rights**
**Fukuyama and McFaul ’08** (Francis, director of the International Development Program at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and Michael, Hoover Senior Fellow and director of the Center on Democracy, Development, and Rule of Law at Stanford University. “Should Democracy Be Promoted or Demoted?” The Washington Quarterly 31:1, winter 07-08.)

Moreover, <span class="s1">human rights and the … good governance and economic growth</span><span class="s9">.</span>

**Alt cause---backlash to the U.S. freedom agenda, and autocratic leaders**
**Windsor ’06** (Jennifer, executive director at Freedom House in D.C. “Advancing the Freedom Agenda: Time for a Recalibration?” The Washington Quarterly 29:3, summer 2006.)

<span class="s2">Yet, today the pendulum in … </span>allies for the United States.4

**Obama solves human rights**
**Pillay 09** (Navanethem, writer for the New York Times. United Nations high commissioner for human rights May 13, 2009. New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/14/opinion/14iht-edpillay.html)

<span class="s1">For the first time, the … this initiative carries promising potential</span><span class="s10">.</span>

**US can’t solve in Bahrain**
**Gengler, 11** – Ph.D. candidate in Political Science … <span class="s11">serve his nation and religion." </span>


**No root cause. Blaming systems of thought or action is pointless. Violence is always proximately caused.**
**Curtler ’97** (Hugh Mercer, Prof. Phil. – Southwest State U. “Rediscovering values: coming to terms with Postmodernism”, Netlibrary, p. 164-165)
At the same time, <span class="s1">we … </span>additional problems with postmodernism, however.

==<span class="s1">**Solvency**</span>== 
**. Multiple hurdles to SPS operability**

<span class="s12">**Mankins 8**</span> (John, pres of Artemis Innovation Management Solutions, adAstra, Spring, pg. 20, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf, accessed: 25 June 2011,)
<span class="s8">**A handful of the technical …** </span>at higher than ambient temperatures.

**2. There’s no SPS until 2050**
<span class="s9">**Foust 8**</span> (Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review and aerospace analyst, with a BS with honors in geophysics from Caltech and a PhD in planetary sciences from MIT, “A renaissance for space solar power?”, <span class="s13">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/931/1</span>)
Smith made it clear, though, … <span class="s14">like, is carved in Jell-O.”</span>

**3. Other energy sources are cheaper than SPS; not competitive in the market**
<span class="s9">**Shiner, 8**</span> (Linda, editor of Air & Space Smithsonian magazine, 7/1/08, Air & Space magazine “Where the Sun Does Shine”, http://www.airspacemag.com/space-exploration/Sun_Does_Shine.html?c=y&page=2)
<span class="s1">If the government put money … more difficult, </span><span class="s3">not less difficult.”</span>







=Round 2= 

==Space Elevator Aff== 

===Environment Advantage=== 
**We will isolate 2 Impacts:**
**1st is the Ozone**
**Ross et al, 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – *Adjunct professor at Embry-Riddle University, PhD in planetary physics from UCLA, **PhD from Harvard, Program Director for Baker Residential Academic Program at Colorado University at Boulder,** *Project Engineer at The Aerospace Corporation, Center Faculty Chair at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, MA in aeronautical science</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[3/20, *Martin Ross **Darin Toohey** *Manfred Peinemann Patrick Ross, “Limits on the Space Launch Market</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Related to Stratospheric Ozone Depletion”, Astropolitics 7:1, [[http://atoc.colorado.edu/%7Ewhan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf|http://atoc.colorado.edu/~whan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf]], AL]</span>
__If rockets are a minuscule contributor … perfectly ‘‘green’’ in this sense.__

**That destroys the planet**
**Thomas 6** William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm
__A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns … shielding—but the stratosphere itself.__

**2nd is nitric acid – that destroys the environment**
**Science ray 11**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (5/19/11, http://scienceray.com/biology/ecology/about-nitric-acid/#ixzz1QJmsahzP)</span>
**__Nitric acid__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is a naturally occur … with the high pH water.</span>

**We only need to win a small risk of any of our impacts to vote aff**
**Diner 94 – PhD in Planetary Science, Sex edited**
David Diner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology. “The Army and the Endangered Speciies Act: Who’s Endangering Who?. Military Law Review 143. 1994
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To accept that the snail … </span>__edging closer to the abyss.__

**It is a question of sustainability – fuel will run out and those fights have already caused political backlash – only the plan lets us get to space**
**Greenfieldboyce 11/08/11** [NPR science correspondent With reporting focused on general science, NASA, and the intersection between technology and society, Greenfieldboyce has been on the science desk's technology beat since she joined NPR in 2005. A graduate of Johns Hopkins, earning her Bachelor's of Arts degree in social sciences and a Master's of Arts degree in science writing, Greenfieldboyce taught science writing for four years at the university. She was honored for her talents with the Evert Clark/Seth Payne Award for Young Science Journalists.] “The Plutonium Problem: Who Pays For Space Fuel?” http://www.npr.org/2011/11/08/141931325/the-plutonium-problem-who-pays-for-space-fuel
__When NASA's next Mars rover …__ we need to start immediately."


===Economy Advantage=== 


**We will isolate 2 internal links:**
**1st is launch dependence –key to the commercial sector and soft power – solves war**
**Burton**, **7** - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]]
__The U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates</span> __must address …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and military aspirations in space.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, the proliferation of international partnerships raises national security concerns which require further study. Specifically, how are influence and power exercised in an international partnership? How can weaker partners influence business outcomes in these partnerships? When is an international partner likely to abandon their national roots in search of profit? The answers to these and other questions are critical to the way national defense systems are procured in an era of increased globalization.</span>
__The U.S. cannot afford to ignore the vulnerabilities inherent in relying on foreign providers for launch services and system components. Failure to act will place the U.S. at the mercy of hostile nations or aggressive corporations and ultimately jeopardize U.S. dominance of the high ground.__

**2rd is high launch costs – inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith, 10** – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]

__Lost in the attention given …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

**Key to economic growth**
**Collard-Wexler 4**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Simon, Spacesecurity.org, Jessy Cowan-Sharp, Sarah Estabrooks, Amb. Thomas Graham, Jr. Dr. Robert Lawson, Dr. William Marshall, “Space Security 2004,” 2004, [[http://www.spacesecurity.org/SSI2004.pdf]] DA; 5/15/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">New directions for civil programs </span>__… , advanced lubricants, and programmable pacemakers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 3</span>

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**It’s a controlling impact – economics cause wars across the globe**
**Harris and Burrows 9**
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report encompasses … **__a more dog-eat-dog world.__**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Even if we are wrong – any attempt at transition is impossible and would lead to war and poverty anyway</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barnhizer 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(David R., Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law; “Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government.” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Summer http://www.allbusiness.com/human-resources/employee-development-leadership/4077913-1.html)</span>
__The scale of social needs, … the pattern once again intensifies.__

**Economic collapse leads to extinction**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld ‘8** (Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR – Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Visiting Scholar – Witherspoon Institute, Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
__Then there are the dolorous …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">internal travails with external adventures.</span>

===Plan Text=== 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space elevator development.**

===Solvency=== 

**Current rocket programs fail – only the space elevator can solve**
**Edwards 06** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, with Phillip Ragan, //Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator,// p. 153-4)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So </span>__why do it with a … in. It is the only alternative.__

**That means only the space elevator can solve extinction**
**Ohlson 08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Orbital express: here comes the space elevator, Issue 21 of Cosmos, June 2008, Kristin Ohlson, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/print/2435/orbital-express?page=0%2C0)</span>
__"THE PATH TO SOLVING … to keep all its eggs in.'"__

**Space elevator solves a space economy**
**ISEC 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Why do I want a Space Elevator? Thursday, 17 February 2011 01:09. ISEC - The International Space Elevator Consortium.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">© 2011 ISEC - The International Space Elevator Consortium - All rights reserved.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So what’s in it … </span>__way to provide this capability.__

**The aff let’s US control launches**
**Kent, 7** - Major, USAF, Blue Horizons Paper for the Center for Strategy and Technology at the Air War College (Jason, “Getting to Space on a Thread … Space Elevator as Alternative Access to Space,” April,
… <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">see through to the end.</span>

**Only the plan can solve high launch costs**
**Edwards 06** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, with Phillip Ragan, //Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator,// p.161-162)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A paradigm shift </span>__The reason__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … </span>__history of the 21st century.__

**Tech is feasible – the space elevator will quickly become viable.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Edwards 09</span>** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson, Dec 1, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Question: Given proper funding, when … </span>__create a massive space-based industry__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**The elevator absorbs damage – means no solvency turns**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Edwards 09</span>** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson, Dec 1, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)
__Question: Some critics have claimed … are by no means intractable.__

**Space elevator is key to the future of space development**
**Edwards 07** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Space Elevator: Expert Q&A, Jan 16, http://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/space-flight/a-hoist-to-the-heavens)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It sounds like a crazy idea, … </span>__could become the next frontier__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**It’s a ribbon – that solves your offense**
**Edwards 05** “A Hoist to the Heavens A space elevator could be the biggest thing to happen since the Stone Age, but can we build one?” http://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/space-flight/a-hoist-to-the-heavens/0
__To avoid problems with cable … would have high electrical resistance.__
=Round 3= 
==Space Elevator Aff== 
===Perchloric Acid Scenario=== 
**Perchlorate comes from rockets and causes massive water shortages by contamination.**
<span class="s1">**Waldman 2**</span> (Peter, reporter @ wsj, 12/27/2, http://www.kuratrading.com/HTMLArticles/perchlorate.htm) JPG
<span class="s2">**Several of the nation's fastest-…** </span>space for sprawling suburban communities.

**Collapsing global water supply causes extinction.**
<span class="s3">**Marlow, 01**</span> - National Chairperson of the Council of Canadians and IFG Committee on the Globalization of Water. (Maude, “BLUE GOLD: The Global Water Crisis and the Commodification of the World's Water Supply,” http://www.ratical.org/co-globalize/BlueGold.pdf.

<span class="s4">Perhaps </span><span class="s5">the most devastating analysis … desertification and, eventually, "global collapse</span><span class="s4">."</span>






=Round 4= 
T-staffed

===Process CP=== 
Recommendation to CP - something about top priority

avoids the link to politics
Brumfeld X

===Jackson-Vanik=== 
[Same as round 1]

===Gender IR=== 
IR is gendered - violence
Steans 8 or 6?

vote negative - solves
Peterson 99

Interrogation solves
Peterson 99

===Heg Adv=== 
Decline solves nation building
Mandelbaum 11

Hegemony solves nothing - empirics
Mearshiemer 11

retrenchmentnow key to multilateralism
XX 12

hegemony turns military power -> backlash
XX X

hegemony causes terrorism
Layne 99
Sidahmed

Heg -> asian intervention
XX X
nuclear War
XX X

===Cooperation Adv=== 
No Accidents
Quinlan 9

Safeguards
Orkalman? 9

No ISS missions - can't solve
XX

international coop solves (or doesn't solve?) resource wars
Layne 8

===Weaponization Adv=== 
Cooperation fails
XX 11

cooperation can't solve weaponization
Pang 11

=Round 5 AFF vs MBA= 
= = 
==<span class="s1">**ISS Aff**</span>== 
===<span class="s1">**Inherency**</span>=== 
<span class="s2">**The Obama administration has cut funding for the shuttle and NASA has no clear goals to restart humyn spaceflight**</span>

<span class="s3">**Cunningham and Olson, 2011**</span> [Walter, Colonel and served as the NASA lunar module pilot for Apollo 7 and Pete, the former ranking member for the House Science Committee, Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. He represents the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas; "NASA at a Turning Point", Politico, July 22, 2011, <span class="s4">[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0711/59647.html]]</span>]
<span class="s4">However, last year</span><span class="s1"> President</span><span class="s4"> Barack </span><span class="s1">… our economy and national security.</span>

===<span class="s1">**Science Diplomacy Adv**</span>=== 
**Shuttle cancellation meant abandonment of the ISS and an increase in unilateral policies by allies – this destroys cooperation and removes the key benefits of the ISS**
<span class="s2">**Newton and Griffin, 2011** </span>[Elizabeth K., PhD, alumna of the graduate school at University of Alabama, Huntsville and Michael D., King-McDonald Eminent Scholar and Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and Director of the Center for System Studies at The University of Alabama in Huntsville; “United States space policy and international partnerships,” Space Policy. January 8, 2011; Accessed at:
[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S026596461000113X]]]
3. Will the USA have … <span class="s5">if it is not present?</span>

**And, cancellation makes continued support for the ISS physically impossible**
<span class="s2">**Abbey, 2011** </span>[George W. S., Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University; “Restore the Vision,” July 20, 2011; http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/SPACE-pub-AbbeySpaceShuttleVision-072011.pdf]
<span class="s1">The director general of the</span><span class="s4"> … </span><span class="s6">multiple six-hour repair spacewalks.</span>

**And, the ISS is key to science diplomacy - visibility, technical complexity, and precedent**
<span class="s2">**Hauser and John, 2009** </span>[Marty, Vice President of Washington Operations, Research Analysis and Mariel, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation; “The International Space Station: Decision 2015,” Space Foundation, 2009, [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]<span class="s7">]</span>
As the world becomes increasingly … that the program is succeeding.19

**And, abandonment destroys our credibility as a scientific partner - prevents future projects**
<span class="s2">**Hauser and John, 2009** </span>[Marty, Vice President of Washington Operations, Research Analysis and Mariel, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation; “The International Space Station: Decision 2015,” Space Foundation, 2009, [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]<span class="s7">]</span>
<span class="s1">International partners place a great deal … </span><span class="s4">all costs on its own.</span>

**And, the US is key to global science diplomacy**
<span class="s3">**Turekian, 2010** </span>[Vaugh, Director of Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS); Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010, <span class="s4">[["ht|http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]]</span>]
<span class="s1">Dr.</span><span class="s4"> Vaughan </span><span class="s1">Turekian began his … nexus of access and influence.</span>

**Try-or-die – extinction is inevitable without science diplomacy – and it’s key to solving all other impacts**
<span class="s2">**Sackett, 10**</span> – former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, <span class="s8">[[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]</span>]
Now turn your attention to … <span class="s5">such as trade and security. </span>

**And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter**
<span class="s3">**The Royal Society, 10**</span> –<span class="s2">[Replaced Other Royal Society Card] </span> a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]
<span class="s1">Cooperation on the scientific aspects … </span><span class="s7">foreign ministry and embassy staff.</span>
<span class="s1">**Contention Three is Microgravity** </span>

===**Micro-Gravity Adv**=== 
**NASA’s Vision for Space Policy of 2004 changed the scope of the ISS which functionally decreased research and scientists**
<span class="s2">**Gordon and Nelson, 2009** </span>[Bart, Chairman of the Committee on Science and Technology, US House of Rep and Bill, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Science and Space (Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation), US Senate; Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9 November. <span class="s9">[[http://www.gao.gov/]]</span> new.items/d109.pdf]
Facilities on board the ISS … scope of planned ISS facilities.

**And, the ISS provides critical infrastructure to conduct microgravity experiments**
**NASA 08 (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 5/20/08, “Unlocking Mysteries in Microgravity: NASA Glenn Provides the Keys With the Fluids and Combustion Facility,” http://www.nasa.gov/centers/glenn/about/fs07grc.html)**
The term "microgravity" will become … in a controlled and safe environment.

**We isolate two scenarios:**
**The first is the Industry –**
**Microgravity is key to the pharmaceutical industry**
<span class="s2">**Gunther et al, 2001**</span> [Seibert, Günther et al. “ESA SP1251 A World Without Gravity: Research in Space for Health and Industrial Processes”. 2001. [[http://www.esa.int/esapub/sp/sp1251/sp1251web.pdf]]. Gunther Seibert is the former head of the ESA’s Microgravity and ISS Utilisation Department.]
- Growth of Protein Crystals … tiny crystals would be avoided.

**The pharmaceutical industry is key to preventing bioterrorism**
<span class="s10">**Washington Post ‘1** </span>(Justin Gillis, 2001 "Scientists Race for Vaccines," lexis)
U.S. scientists, spurred into action … <span class="s11">.</span>It's the right thing to do."

**Biological terrorist attack would cause extinction**
<span class="s2">**Kellman, 2008** </span>[Barry, Director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law and author of //Bioviolence—Preventing Biological Terror and Crime//; “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat,” <span class="s7">The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]</span>
**What Might Bioviolence Accomplish?** <span class="s1">Envision a … </span><span class="s4">catastrophic bioviolence is simply untenable.</span>
**Now is key – bioterror threats increasing**
<span class="s2">**Garrett, 1/5/**</span>12 [Laurie, Senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of //I Hear the Sirens Scream: How American Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks//; “Flu Season,” Foreign Policy, January 5, 2012, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season]
Meanwhile, <span class="s12">bird flu is back, … </span>infected a dozen Americans by Christmas.

**Independently, even research on small diseases solves major ones**
<span class="s5">**Dana-Farber, 2002**</span><span class="s1"> [Since its founding in 1947, Dana-Farber has been committed to providing cancer patients with the best treatment available today while developing tomorrow's cures through cutting-edge research. Research into rare disease leads to discovery of six new breast cancer-susceptibility genes, June 13, http://www.dana-farber.org/abo/news/press/061302b.asp]</span>
<span class="s1">A decade of research into … more common diseases," </span><span class="s13">D'Andrea explains.</span>

**The impact is extinction**
<span class="s2">**Darling and Shultz-Makuch, ‘12**</span> [Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling Seattle's Big Blog, <span class="s8">[[http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment]]</span>, Washington State University]
Catastrophometer Scale 7.5: The enemy within (… <span class="s5">our species could be threatened. </span>

**The second scenario is Nanotech –**

**Global development inevitable – 60 countries heavily invested.**
**Sargent, 2008**
[John F., Specialist in Science and Technology Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division, 5-15, “Nanotechnology and U.S. Competitiveness: Issues and Options,” CRS Report for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34493.pdf]
Public Investments. <span class="s5">The United States … </span>nanotechnology R&D is provided in Table 1.

**Microgravity is uniquely key for nanotech**
<span class="s2">**Ferrari et al. 09**</span> (Mauro Ferrari, Ph.D., Professor, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and President, Alliance for NanoHealth; Alessandro Grattoni, Sr. Research Assistant; Arturas Ziemys, Postdoctoral Fellow; Dan Fine, Postdoctoral Fellow; Enrica De Rosa, Postdoctoral Fellow. “Decoupling Diffusive Transport Phenomena in Microgravity,” [[http://www.labflight.com/UT_Health_Sciences.pdf%20accessed%201/9/2012|http://www.labflight.com/UT_Health_Sciences.pdf accessed 1/9/2012]].)
<span class="s4">In the liquid or gas … </span><span class="s1">task of synthesis and characterization. </span>

**US leadership creates a responsible model, causes regulation which makes nanotech safe**
<span class="s2">**Forrest, 1989**</span> [David, President of the Institute for Molecular Manufacturing and a Senior Fellow at the Foresight Nanotech Institute, member of the Working Group for the International Technology Roadmap for Productive Nanosystems, and of the Technical Advisory Group to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) on the ISO Technical Committee on Nanotechnology (TC/229), “Regulating Nanotechnology Development,” 3-23, http://www.foresight.org/nano/forrest1989.html]
<span class="s5">If we tried to block … </span>task as soon as possible.

**Only the US can serve as a catalyst for international cooperation**
<span class="s2">**Goel, 2008**</span> [Dr. Anita, MD, PhD, is the president and scientific director of Nanobiosym Labs and president and CEO of Nanobiosym Diagnostics, the commercial arm of Nanobiosym that is developing next-generation diagnostic capabilities, 4-28, “Harnessing Nanotechnology to Drive the New Global Economy,” [[http://www.xconomy.com/boston/2008/04/28/harnessing-nanotechnology-to-drive-the-new-global-economy/2/]]]
I envision that the new … of a growing multibillion-dollar market.

**Unilateral nanotech causes an arms race and insures extinction – only international cooperation can solve**
<span class="s2">**Treder And Phoenix, 8**</span> Mike , Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, <span class="s1">“The Need for International Control” http://www.crnano.org/int_control.htm</span>
<span class="s13">Overview: </span><span class="s1">International administration appears to … the International Atomic Energy Agency. </span>

**There are multiple scenarios for extinction and your impact defense is wrong**
<span class="s3">**Nagel ‘7** </span>(MC - , “Do the potential dangers of nanotechnology to society outweigh the potential benefits,” Science Clarified, Volume 1, http://www.scienceclarified.com/dispute/Vol-1/Do-the-potential-dangers-of-nanotechnology-to-society-outweigh-the-potential-benefits.html)
<span class="s1">Against</span><span class="s7"> the background of </span><span class="s1">the … result in even more danger.</span>

===<span class="s1">**Plan Text**</span>=== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its staffed shuttle missions to the International Space Station**


===<span class="s1">**Solvency**</span>=== 
<span class="s2">**Continuing the shuttle allows the US an independent way to get astronauts into space and it revitalizes NASA innovation and leadership**</span>

<span class="s3">**Wall, 2011**</span> [Mike, SPACE.com senior writer), Citing Neil Armstrong (First man on the moon, former US senator), and Eugene Cernan (Commander of Apollo 17), " Apollo astronauts to Congress: Bring back the space shuttles", MSNBC, September 22, 2011, accessed September 22, 2011, <span class="s4">[[%22http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44631718/ns/technology_and_science-space|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44631718/ns/technology_and_science-space/#]]</span>]
<span class="s1">The United States desperately needs a … </span><span class="s4">back, we lose our talent." </span>







=Round 6= 

==<span class="s1">**Airpower K** </span>== 

**Air war leads to serial policy failure by killing disposable populations and depersonalizes war – their “truth claims” are based in flawed epistemology**
<span class="s2">**Engelhardt 11**</span> [Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com.] March 18, 2011 3:32 AM PRINT TEXT What U.S. air power actually does By Tom Engelhardt http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-215_162-20044539.html
Over the years, Afghan civilian … <span class="s3">power has ended up.</span> Live with it.

**That makes endless war inevitable**
<span class="s2">**Record 02**</span> Jeffrey Record, Professor of International Security Studies at the Air War College and former professional staff member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Ph.D. from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, senior fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Hudson Institute, and the BDM International Corporation, 2002, “Collapsed Countries, Casualty Dread, and the New American Way of War,” [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/parameters/Articles/02summer/record.htm]]
<span class="s1">An airpower-dominant way of … rights and even democracy itself.56</span>

**Our alternative is to personalize war – the affirmative view causes dehumanization and incentivizes further highly militarized conflicts.**
<span class="s2">**Ignatieff 00**</span> academic and former politician. He was the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada and Leader of the Official Opposition from 2008 until 2011. Known for his work as a historian, Ignatieff has held senior academic posts at the University of Cambridge, the University of Oxford, Harvard University and the University of Toronto. Virtual war MICHAEL IGNATIEFF 20th April 2000 — Issue 51 http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2000/04/virtualwar/
<span class="s4">In Kosovo, war enlisted western … </span><span class="s1">increased likelihood of that approval.</span>

The same executive power … tenacity of the north Vietnamese.

==<span class="s1">**C2 DA**</span>== 

**Information overload on the brink – new information destroys C2**
<span class="s2">**Bateman et al. 2/5**</span> [Scott Bateman University of Saskatchewan, Aaron Genest University of Saskatchewan, Anthony Tang University of Calgary, Stacey Scott University of Waterloo, Carl Gutwin University of Saskatchewan] Feb 5, 2012 “Why Expressiveness Matters in Command & Control Visualizations” http://crisisinformatics.wineme.fb5.uni-siegen.de/files/Genest.pdf
A key aspect of our … this limit is remarkably high [9]

**C2 solves heg and is a prerequisite to solvency**
<span class="s2">**Moseley 07**</span> [T. Michael Moseley General, USAF Chief of Staff] “Command and Control” Air Force Doctrine Document 2-8 1 June 2007 http://www.fas.org/irp/doddir/usaf/afdd2-8.pdf
<span class="s1">C2</span><span class="s4"> is not unique from … </span><span class="s1">of what C2 really entails. </span>

**Extinction**
<span class="s2">**Kagan, 07 -** </span>senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, and … will provide an easier path.













=Round 7= 
==<span class="s1">**NRO Pic**</span>== 
<span class="s1">**The United States National Reconnaissance Office should develop next generation space-based space reconnaissance capabilities.**</span>

<span class="s1">**CP solves the aff – new agency creation risks turf wars and gaps in responsibilities. Plus, new agencies are tied to the old one means your solvency deficits still apply** </span>
<span class="s1">**Laking 05** [Rob Laking is a professor in the School of Government of the Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand; Agencies: Their Benefits and Risks, OECD Journal on Budgeting Volume 4 – No. 4, http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/3/7/43487848.pdf]</span>
<span class="s1">In developing countries and in … there is a failure of management.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: 5338px; width: 1px;">
|| plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its staffed shuttle missions to the International Space Station ||
|| happening now ||
|| x ||
||   ||
|| akdjkfddkkdkkdk ||
|| x ||
||   ||
|| sci diplomacy checks conflicts ||
|| x ||
||   ||
|| c2 micro gravity ||
|| pharms key to stop ||
|| x ||
|| now is key bterror threats increasing ||
|| x ||
|| even research on small dieseas solves big ones ||
|| x ||
|| impact is extinction ||
|| x ||
|| bio terror attack cause extinction ||
|| xkelman ||
|| scen 2 nano tech ||
||   ||
|| xchargen 8 ||
|| microgravity uniquely key for nanotech ||
|| x ||
|| us lship creates resp model ||
|| x ||
|| catalyst for international cooperation ||
|| x ||
|| ulat nanotech ||
|| xcheddar ||
|| mult scens for extinction ||
|| xnagal ||
|| c3 ||
|| cut funding for shuttle nasa no plans to restar ||
|| x ||
|| cancellation makes continued support for the iss impossible ||
|| x ||
|| iss key to sci diplomacy ||
|| x ||
|| destroys our credibility ||
|| xhosser johnson ||
|| nasa vision change scope ||
|| xwharton ||
|| microgravity key to pharm ||
|| x ||
|| iss ||
|| x ||
|| plan increase shuttle missions to the iss ||
|| fleet out of retirement ||
|| x ||
|| iss key to coop and innovatin ||
|| x ||
|| sovle world food shortages ||
|| x ||
|| that solves millions of deaths ||
|| x ||
</span>