=Capitalism K= 
**Energy production is inseparable from capitalist growth—their narrow lens framing is complicit through excusing avoidance & propping up destructive forces**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark and York ’8</span>** Brett Clark, assistant professor of sociology at North Carolina State University, and Richard York, coeditor of Organization %26 Environment and associate professor of sociology at the University of Oregon, "Rifts and Shifts: Getting to the Root of Environmental Crises," Monthly Review, Vol. 60, Issue 06, November 2008
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The development of energy ........</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> additional ecological rifts.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">18</span>

**The impact is extinction** 
**Brown, 05** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan, 05/13/2005, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The capitalist class ........fact of life in the U.S.</span>

**Our alternative is to Vote __neg__ – the purpose of the debate should be __envisioning a different relationship__ toward the knowledge capital produces – only by __situating ourselves__ as intellectuals outside of state politics can solvency start – reformism __is__ the __link__ means the perm gets __co-opted__ too**
**Meszaros 8** (Istvan, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p323-328)
The unreality of postulationthe<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ..... ongoing historical enterprise. </span>

=Spanos/Ontology/Heidegger K= 
**Engaging one facet oppression through a universal morality only replicates the harms. This mindset cedes the political to elites and masks alternative modes of being.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">Spanos '2K</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11.5pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of English at SUNY–Binghamton) 2k (The Question of Philosophy and Poiesis in the Posthistorical Age: Thinking/ Imagining the Shadow of Metaphysics, William V. Spanos, boundary 2, 27.1 (2000) 169)//JRC]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">And in thus focusing this........</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11.5pt;"> and maiming of human life.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In order to find a different relationship to technology the alternative is to do nothing because only doing nothing allows for a new destining of being.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Harman in 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Graham, Professor of Philosophy @ American University in Cairo, “Cambridge Journal of Economics”, 2009, Vol. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">34(1), __Technology, objects and things in Heidegger__ p.17-25)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Another word in ......</span>____<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> mere wish to know’</span>__<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Heidegger, 1994, pp. 71–2)</span>

=<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Speaking for Others K</span>= 
**Advocating for those those in poverty is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment but inherently ends up utilizing descriptions of poverty to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.**
Linda Martín **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span>**, Department of Philosophy at SyracuseUniversity.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**1992**, </span>Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Feminist discourse is not...... one is a member.</span>

**The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.**
Linda **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span>**, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1995</span>**, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is partly the case ........ of our experiential lives.9</span>

**The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.**
Patricia **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams</span>**, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1987</span>**  University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> There are certain ......</span><span class="Emphasis2">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> humanity we have left.</span>**</span>

**Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.**
Michel **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault and</span>** Gilles **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1972</span>** Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">FOUCAULT: It seems to me that z</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.........</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">obviously seen as power?...</span>