=Federalism DA= 
====**A. States are taking the lead on Transportation now – Federal Intervention Guts Effectiveness**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomasson ’12</span> (Scott Thomasson, President, NewBuild Strategies LLC. "Council on Foreign Relations." Council on Foreign Relations. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 June 2012. <http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771>.)
There is no........<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> executive branch action.</span>
====**B. Federal Transportation Infrastructure Spending Guts Federalism – it’s a state issue**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Horowitz 12</span> (Daniel Horowitz, writer for Red State, 1-19-12, “Devolve Transportation Spending to States,” http://www.redstate.com/dhorowitz3/2012/01/19/devolve-transportation-spending-to-states/) GZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the ...... bold conservative solutions.</span>
====**C. Only a U.S. model of federalism provides dual sovereignty and checks civil war in Iraq**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mihalakas ‘12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nasos Mihalakas, LLM from University College London and a JD from the University of Pittsburgh, “Time for Iraq to Activate its Federation Council!”, April 30, https://mihalakas.wordpress.com/2012/04/30/time-for-iraq-to-activate-its-federation-council/</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The political ........ secession of break-up</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


====**D. Iraq civil war goes global**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson ‘6</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Harvard Prof, 9/11, “The Next War of the World,” http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2006/09/the_next_war_of_the_world.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What makes the ........ Palestine and </span>Mesopotamia<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=Budget DA= 
====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. __UNIQUENESS__ - US is displaying fiscal discipline – spending has grown at a snail’s pace</span>**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baker 12</span> (Peter, “Obama More Conservative Than Hoover? Someone Thinks So,” 5-23-12,
[[http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/23/obama-more-conservative-than-hoover-someone-thinks-so/]])

COLORADO SPRINGS — <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It’s ........</span> to the other.

<span style="line-height: 24px;">**[INSERT SPECIFIC LINK]**</span>

====**Continued deficit spending collapses the economy**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roe 11</span> (Phil, member of the Education and Workforce Committee and Representative from Tennessee, “Cut, cap and balance: A fight toward fiscal responsibility,” 5-18, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05/navy_plebes_scale_herndon_monu.html)
z
On Monday, the ...... the long-term.


**If we don’t start cutting our budget Economic collapse is inevitable: that causes WWIII**
**Hamer 10** 3/6, *Prof Dr. Eberhard Hamer writes for Current Concerns, “Increasing Indications for a Third World War,” http://www.currentconcerns.ch/index.php?id=1012
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Due to the ........ escape this danger.</span>

=Airlines DA (HSR Specific)= 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oil prices are dropping—airlines now have a slightly higher margin for profitability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Forbes, 6/6</span>** [June 6 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2012/06/06/airline-stocks-flying-high-after-big-correction-in-oil-prices/]]</span> “Airline Stocks Flying High After Big Correction In Oil Prices,”] TJ

**__Oil prices have ......__** passengers stop flying.”


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">High Speed Rail would trade off with the Airline Industry </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JTRC 08’ </span>**(Joint Transport Research Center, October 2nd and 3rd 2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/jtrc/discussionpapers/DP200907.pdf]]</span>) M.S
**__Some policy‐makers .....__** and road alternatives 28 .

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Airlines provide the key internal link to the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tam et al. 02’ </span>**(Ryan Tam and John Hansman, IMPACT OF AIR TRANSPORTATION ON REGIONAL ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONNECTIVITY IN THE UNITED STATES, Massachusetts Institute of Technology)M.S
Most analyses on ........ 1978 and 1995.z

**Cross Apply their Econ Collapse leads to war card from the 1AC**


=Elections DA= 
Most stuff changes a lot obviously. We've been reading different impacts though.

==Russian Relations Impact== 
Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reichardt 12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama’s policy towards .......</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> American foreign policy.</span>

Relations key to solving prolif, terrorism, nuke war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NTI 9</span>Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
Russian leaders have ......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>

==Indian Relations Impact== 
Romney kills US-India relations
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Larison 12</span> (Daniel Larison, contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Weekonline, Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago, “Romney and U.S.-Indian Relations”, 6-6-12 [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/romney-and-u-s-indian-relations/]], 6/06/12)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, this........</span><span class="TitleChar"> closely with ours.</span>

US-India relations solve every major impact
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burns et al 10</span> (Armitage, Richard, Burns, Nicholas, & Fontaine, Richard. "Natural Allies: A Blueprint for the Future of U.S.-India Relations." Paper, Center for a New American Security, October 20, 2010. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20446/natural_allies.html?breadcrumb=/]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The emergence of ......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the international community. </span>


=Oil DA= 
Oil Prices are high and on the rise
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post 9/14</span> (“Oil prices hit four-month high”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/oil-prices-hit-four-month-high/2012/09/14/b09829ca-fe9f-11e1-b153-218509a954e1_story.html]], 9/14/12)
Oil prices hit ..... as a drum<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Status quo U.S. transportation is key to sustained demand for oil – the plan reduces consumption
**WC 8**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (World Crisis news service,“World Oil Crisis: Driving forces, Impact and Effects,” http://www.world-crisis.net/oil-crisis.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The demand side ....... years in a row.</span>


Russia’s economy RELIES on these prices
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GM 9/15</span> (Globe and Mail news service, “For Russia, high energy prices a necessity, not a luxury”, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/international-business/european-business/for-russia-high-energy-prices-a-necessity-not-a-luxury/article4546314/?service=mobile]], 9/15/12)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Kremlin does ......</span> by //$20-billion//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]
<span class="TitleChar">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, historically</span><span class="TitleChar">, <span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">........</span> least dangerous consequence.</span>