[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States via a national infrastructure bank.**
===Observation 1 is Stimulus=== 
**Scenario 1 is unemployment: Growth isn’t fast enough to generate jobs**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IBJ</span>, Indianapolis Business Journal, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">10/18/</span>12, IBJ, U.S. unemployment claims hit four-month high, http://www.ibj.com/us-unemployment-claims-hit-four-month-high/PARAMS/article/37338, KP
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Weekly </span>applications for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> U.S. </span>unemployment benefits jumped<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 46,000 last week</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
staying at or below 2 percent in the second half of the year.

**Employment is on the brink of recovery but will remain stagnant unless further stimulus is passed – best economic analysis says little blips are insignificant**
Alan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krueger</span>, The White House, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1-4-</span>2013 [“The Employment Situation in December,” White House, http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2013/01/04/employment-situation-december]/sbhag
While more work remains to be done, today’s employment report provides further evidence that
AND
consider each report in the context of other data that are becoming available..


**Our projects help those hurt by the downturn – budgets and employment – transportation costs absorb one out of every seven dollars of income**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Treasury Department</span>, March 23, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> [“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” A REPORT PREPARED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY WITH THE COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS]/sbhag
IV. How Infrastructure Investment Affects the Middle Class
For the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> average </span>American family<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>transportation //expenditures// rank //second//only <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to housing expenditures</span>.
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">example of the geographic diversity of benefits which comes from investing in infrastructure. </span>


**NIB immediately solves unemployment and thus the deficit**
Fareed <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria</span>, Indian-American journalist and author. From 2000 to 2010, he was a columnist for Newsweek and editor of Newsweek International. In 2010 he became editor-at-large of Time. He is the host of CNN's Fareed Zakaria GPS. He is also a frequent commentator and author about issues related to international relations, trade and American foreign policy, 06-13-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank”, http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/
President Obama has proposed a number of specific policies to tackle the jobs crisis,
AND
? That moment of bipartisanship might actually be the biggest payoff of all.


**Unemployment causes systemic suffering and death**
Dean <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baker</span>, Co-Director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and</span> Kevin <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hassett</span>, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, former served as a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and an associate professor of economics and finance at the Graduate School of Business of Columbia University, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, 05-12-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, “The Human Disaster of Unemployment,” http://www.cepr.net/index.php/op-eds-&-columns/op-eds-&-columns/the-human-disaster-of-unemployment
Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the
AND
is their occupation. Few events rival the emotional strain of job loss.


**The feds are key – they must act first or state budget cuts will destroy recovery**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JOHNSON ET AL ‘10</span>- Nicholas Johnson- graduate degree from Duke University's Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Director of the State Fiscal Project, which works to develop strategies for long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, encourage low-income tax relief, and improve the way states prioritize funding, received the Ian Axford Fellowship in Public Policy, a program financed by the New Zealand government and administered by Fulbright New Zealand. Through this fellowship, he spent six months as an advisor to the New Zealand Treasury and the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development. AND* Iris J. Lav- created the State Fiscal Analysis Initiative, a network of nonprofit organizations that work on state budget issues. The SFAI network began with 11 state organizations in 1993 and now operates in 31 states with groups in seven other states under development. In 1999, she received the Steven D. Gold award for contributions to state and local fiscal policy. Holds an MBA from George Washington University and an AB from the University of Chicago. AND* Elizabeth McNichol- M.A. in Political Science University of Chicago. Senior Fellow specializing in state fiscal issues including methods of examining state budget processes and long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, served as Assistant Research Director of the Service Employees International Union in Washington, D.C. was a staff member of the Joint Finance Committee for the State of Wisconsin Legislature specializing in property taxes and state aid to local governments (Nicholas, Iris J. Lav,Elizabeth McNichol, “ Additional Federal Fiscal Relief Needed to Help States Address Recession’s Impact “, March 1, http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=2988)
There are a number of reasons for these lags in state fiscal recovery.In
AND
other key state services to make it through this unusually painful economic downturn.


**Scenario 2 is Lashout: Declining infrastructure is destroying US economic competitiveness**
Thomas J. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Donohue</span>, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, 09-08-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure”, http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2011/0908/The-highway-to-jobs-via-better-infrastructure
As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal from the US Chamber of
AND
first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.


**No resiliency – we’re out of buffers**
Catherine <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rampell</span>, economics reporter for The New York Times; wrote for the Washington Post editorial pages and financial section, 08-07-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Second Recession in U.S. Could Be Worse Than First”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/08/business/a-second-recession-could-be-much-worse-than-the-first.html?pagewanted=all
If the economy falls back into recession, as many economists are now warning,
AND
, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first.”


**A federal bank spurs critical public-private partnerships – states can’t fill in**
Laura <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tyson</span>, professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton, 08-18-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html
Years of underinvesting in the nation's transportation infrastructure are apparent in congested roads, freight
AND
private partnerships is one way to realize larger returns on scarce investment dollars.


**Err aff - empirics discredit optimism**
Jack <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rasmus</span>, Ph.D in Political Economy and currently teaches economics and politics at St. Mary’s College and Santa Clara University in California is the author of the just-released book, "Obama's Economy: Recovery for the Few”, 01-05-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, “Economic Predictions for 2012 to 2013”, http://truthout.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=5904:economic-predictions-for-2012-to-2013
A striking fact of the past four years is that the world's 10,000
AND
in early 2013, when deficit cutting by Congress and the administration intensifies.


**US collapse goes global – US demand fuels other markets**
Ashfaqur <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahman</span>, former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies, 08-21-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Another global recession?”, http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461
Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear. First
AND
we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession.

**NIB is heavy efficient investment–__multiplier effect__, __bipartisan__, and __not perceived as spending__**
Scott <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thomasson</span>, economic and domestic policy director of the progress policy institute, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, “Hearing before the subcommittee on Highways and transit “National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and Red Tape”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/92300621/Congressional-Testimony-National-Infrastructure-Bank-Separating-Myths-from-Realities
Myth #1: We can't afford a national infrastructure bank, because the federal
AND
solutions that make the most efficient use of all our country's financing resources.


**Current economic instability uniquely increases risk of nuclear war**
Tina <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fordham</span>, Senior Global Political Analyst Citi Global Markets Master's in International Affairs, School for International Public Affairs, Columbia University. Formerly: head of Global Political Risk, Eurasia Group; Senior Adviser, Countries at Risk of Instability Project, UK Prime Minister's Strategy Unit. Since 2003, with Citi; as Senior Global Political Analyst, focuses on the implications of macro political developments for companies and investors. Fellow, Aspen Institute Socrates Society; Member, Global Agenda Council on Geopolitical Risk, World Economic Forum; Member, Chatham House; Senior Research Fellow, King's Centre for Risk Management, King's College, London, 07-17-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Investors can’t ignore the rise of geopolitical risk”, Financial Times, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html
Geopolitical risk is on the rise after years of relative quiet – potentially creating further
AND
would be a very unwelcome time to see the return of geopolitical risk.”


**Even a slowdown triggers U.S. lashout**
Avery <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Goldstein</span>, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, August 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence”, Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume30, Issue 4 & 5 pages 639 – 682
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for
AND
the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

**Economic stability stymies escalation – mutual investment, market allocation, and data**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux, </span>professor of economics, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6 </span>(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html)
During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University
AND
are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.

**Economic crisis causes war – prefer contextualized data**
Jedediah <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal</span>, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


===Observation 2 is infrastructure=== 
**Our mechanism is the only way to build projects -complex funding requires targetting**
Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Puentes</span> (Senior Fellow, Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program and director of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative) 7/16/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> “What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?” http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-avenue/105017/what-would-infrastructure-bank-really-do# /Rohit
It remains that the greatest potential for an NIB is for a different set of
AND
In fact, we're already seeing it here at the Brookings Metro Program.


**NIB creates federally-backed mass transit**
Yonah <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark</span> (writes on cities and transportation at The Transport Politic)1/2/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> “How to Pay for America's Infrastructure” http://www.theatlanticcities.com/politics/2012/01/solution-americas-infrastructure-woes/845/ /Rohit
America's transportation infrastructure is in desperate need of an update, and most politicians would
AND
transit, thanks to major investments in projects like the SunRail commuter line.

**Underdeveloped transit systems hamper access to education opportunities**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sanchez, et al. 03</span> Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard., 2003, "MOVING TO EQUITY: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities," The Civil Rights Project at Harvard University, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf linja
Creating barriers to access to education is another indirect effect of transportation policies. Following
AND
equal access to educational opportunities will remain deferred for many students of color.

**Increase transit yields individual agency and social inclusion**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stanley and Vella-Brodrick 09</span> Janet Stanley, Janet Stanley Monash Sustainability Institute, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia, AND Dianne Vella-Brodrick, School of Psychology, Psychiatry and Psychological Medicine, Monash University, Caulfield 3145, Australia, July 2009, “The usefulness of social exclusion to inform social policy in transport,” Transport Policy
Volume 16, Issue 3, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0967070X09000043]] linja
The role of transport in facilitating social inclusion through thedevelopment of social capital, according
AND
reduced capabilities due tofactors such as low income, poor health and disability.

**Our decision process fights desensitization, alternatives legitimizes structural violence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4</span>
(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkely; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn)
(Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)
This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this
AND
, including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization