[[toc]]
For additional cites, questions, etc.
[[mailto:alex.nhd@gmail.com|alex.nhd@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC WIPP (TFA State)== 



===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should facilitate the transportation of nuclear waste from interim storage facilities to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant permanent deep-geological repository by substantially increasing it’s investment in efficient dedicated railway transportation infrastructure.

===Contention 1 is the Status Quo=== 
Waste will go to interim storage facilities like Yucca Mountain – deep geologic repository is key
Buckner 3/2 (Saturday, March 2, 2013, Mel Buckner is a nuclear engineer and an adjunct professor in the Nuclear Program at the University of South Carolina, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/mar/2/buckner-us-irresponsibility-nuclear-waste/]]</span>) AE

We are going to –AND- installations around the country.



Legislation proves
Tollefson 11 (Jeff, former Knight fellow in science journalism at MIT, “Battle of Yucca Mountain rages on”, Nature, Vol. 473, No. 266, 5-19-11,)

The commission intends –AND- lives have been used up.”

Yucca explosion is likely and results in extinction – top geologists agree.
Broad 90 (William, NYT Staff, The New York Times, November 18)

One scientist, however, –AND- to envision the end of the world, that's it."


Nuclear waste facilities have no access to rails
Glenn Hess, 2005, Nevada senators challenge DOE plan for nuclear waste train service, Chemical and Engineering News, http://pubs.acs.org/cen/news/83/i35/8335notw3.html

Nevada's senators are –AND- plants and defense-related activities.




===Advantage 1 the Hanford Reservation=== 
The Hanford nuclear production site just got cut – this harbors waste cleanup efforts
Vekshin 3/5 (Alison, Mar 5, 2013, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-05/washington-nuclear-waste-site-faces-171-million-in-cuts.html]]</span>) AE

More than 4,700 –AND- to Washington Governor Jay Inslee.


It’s inherent – WIPP isn’t taking the waste now and even if they did it would be by truck
Chittim 3/7 (Gary, correspondent, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.king5.com/news/local/Exporting-Hanford-waste-is-complicated-196218791.html]]</span>) AE

There does not appear –AND- barrels would be moved.¶


Unchecked waste at Hanford spills into the Columbia Basin – this crushes marine biodiversity
Dininny and Baker 2/15 (Shannon and Mike, 02/15/13, AP, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/02/16/hanford-nuclear-tank-is-l_n_2701197.html]]</span>) AE

The long-delayed cleanup –AND- double-shell tanks today.

Hanford specifically kills chinook salmon – this card slays their impact D
Spain 2 (WHY THE HANFORD MATTERS TO FISHERMEN Avoiding a Radioactive Columbia River, Glen Spain, Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen’s Associations, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pcffa.org/fn-sep02.htm]]</span>) AE

Unfortunately, today –AND- much worse in the future?¶


137 species rely on Columbia Basin salmon for survival – including birds and land animals. Specifically, river salmon are key to greater ocean biodiversity
Save Our Wild Salmon 9 (environmental advocacy group, 3/6/2009 (“Why Restore Wild Salmon?”, Save Our Wild Salmon, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]]</span>) AE

Salmon and steelhead –AND- of the Pacific Northwest.


Marine biodiversity collapse leads to extinction
Craig 3 (Associate Professor at Indiana University School of Law [Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection”, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, p. 264-266]

Biodiversity and ecosystem –AND- of business as a result.


It outweighs their war scenarios – deterrence proves
Tepperman 9—Deputy Editor at Newsweek. Frmr Deputy Managing Editor, Foreign Affairs. LLM, i-law, NYU. MA, jurisprudence, Oxford. (Jonathan, Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jonathantepperman.com/Welcome_files/nukes_Final.pdf]]</span>, CMR)

The argument that nuclear –AND- what they had to do to avoid it.


Interdependence checks
Deudney et al 9 , professor of political science at John Hopkins et al, 09 [Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]]</span>]
This bleak outlook is based on –AND- autocratic revivalists acknowledge.


Most recent evidence and better models prove - their science is bad
Seitz 2006 - former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]]</span>)
All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill are –AND- winter models feature so much smoke so far aloft for so long?


Plan solves Hanford
Beyond Nuclear 2/28 (Beyond Nuclear Editorial Staff, “Hanford's radioactive leaks should not be exploited to enact commercial Mobile Chernobyl legislation,” February 28, 2013, http://www.beyondnuclear.org/radioactive-waste-whatsnew/2013/2/28/hanfords-radioactive-leaks-should-not-be-exploited-to-enact.html) SS

However, as <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.beyondnuclear.org/storage/OR%20WA%20Mobile%20Chernobyl%202013%20Action%20Alert%202%2026%202013.pdf|Beyond Nuclear has warned in an action alert]]</span>, –AND- waste into the living environment.


Transport is necessary – the waste can’t sit there
Carlson 3/3 (Sarah, “Nuclear Waste: Is the World’s Largest Cleanup Plan Also the Slowest?” The International, http://www.theinternational.org/articles/358-nuclear-waste-is-the-worlds-largest-c) SS

Over 40 percent of the outdated –AND- as time goes on.

===Advantage 2 is the Atom=== 
====Scenario 1 is the Industry==== 
Nuclear renaissance now –industry consensus
McMahon, 2012, Jeff Forbes, The Nuclear Renaissance Is Back, Industry Panel Says, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2012/09/27/the-nuclear-renaissance-is-back-industry-panel/]]</span>

Encouraged by a new poll –AND- safe place to be for a utility.


It’s key to solve warming – its anthropogenic and causes extinction
Lynas ’12 [Mark, “Without nuclear, the battle against global warming is as good as lost”, Contributor, The Guardian, 9-14-12,
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/sep/14/nuclear-global-warming?newsfeed=true]]</span>)
Let me be very clear. –AND- worthy of the name.


But meltdowns will cripple the industry
USA Today 11 [Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants, 12/12/<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1]]</span>] AE

There's never a shortage of –AND- for major error.


They’re likely
Alvarez 12 (Robert, Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”, Winter, ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, RSR)

Until the NAS completes its –AND- lower contamination.


And cause extinction – one meltdown is equivalent to 100 nuclear bombs
Lendman 11 (Stephen, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization, ¶ 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”, The People’s Voice <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]]</span>, accessed 8-2-12,)

Reuters said the 1995 –AND- event.

====Scenario 2 is the Grid==== 
Nuclear plants are key to stability
Community Science Action Guides, No Date, The Benefits of Nuclear Energy, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fi.edu/guide/wester/benefits.html]]</span> (authors of "Community Science Action Guides" are practicing educators who worked with staff at The Franklin Institute and the Science Museum)

Nuclear power plants provide –AND- while operating).


Meltdowns cause a long term shutdown, Fukushima proves
Schiffman 12 (Richard, May 7, 2012, The Guardian, The Fukushima nuclear plant's slow recovery offers lessons to the US, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2012/may/07/japan-fukushima-nuclear-power-earthquakes)

But Mr Noda's optimistic –AND- on inside those crippled structures.


Grid collapse kills billions and causes societal breakdown
WND weekly March 7 2013 (Independent conservative news website with an emphasis on aggressive investigative reporting, wnd.com)

In effect, the outcome could –AND- grid must be protected.”


Dedicated Rails specifically key to prevent waste accidents – spills devastating radiation
Nuclear Waste Office 13, YuccaMountain.org FAQ's — Frenquely Asked Questions, last edited in 2013, http://www.yuccamountain.org/faq.htm#transport

The DOE has announced a –AND- and shipment security.


Which trucking causes
Nevada 1999, State of Nevada Nuclear Waste Project Office Transportation of Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Radioactive Waste to a Repository, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.state.nv.us/nucwaste/trans/trfact03.htm]]</span>

Without rail access to Yucca –AND- increase





===Contention 2 is Solvency=== 
A permanent deep geological repository is key to provide a safe storage place for the radioactive waste
Vandenbosch 12 [Susanne E. & Robert; American Physical Society “A Blue Ribbon Commissions Proposal for Breaking the Nuclear Waste Stalemate” (http://www.aps.org/units/fps/newsletters/201207/vandenbosch.cfm) [KC]

It is under this key –AND- nuclear weapons.


Only the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant solves radiation
Harward 6 (05/22/06, Don Waste Isolation Pilot Plant¶ Radiation Safety Manual, http://www.wipp.energy.gov/library/Information_Repository_A/Supplemental_Information/WP12-5.pdf)

¶ A key element of the v and radiological contamination.


Fed key – legislation requires plant operators work through the DoE
CRS ’9 (Congressional Research Service, February 6, 2009

Section 302 of -AND- appropriations from general revenues.


7 reasons rails specifically solve best
NEILL, No Date HELEN R. NEILL AND ROBERT H. (Helen Neill is an Associate Professor in the Department of Environmental Studies at the University of Nevada), Transportation of Transuranic Nuclear¶ Waste to WIPP: A Reconsideration of Truck versus Rail for Two Sites, http://lawlibrary.unm.edu/nrj/40/1/05_neill_nuclear.pdf

Shipments of waste by rail –AND- truck operations.


===Contention 3 is Hauntology=== 

The ecological crisis of nuclear radiation is an ontological priority—the ecological destruction of nuclear spills exist as a hyperobject, exceeding exclusively human-oriented decision-calculus.
Morton 2011 (Timothy, Professor and Rita Shea Guffey Chair in English at Rice University “Zero Landscapes in the Time of Hyperobjects” Graz Architectural Magazine (7):78-87)

The ice cream is the world –AND-, withdrawn strangeness.



==1AC WIPP (Berkeley)== 


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Plan</span>=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase it’s investment in the transportation of nuclear waste from temporary storage facilities to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant permanent deep geological repository through the use and creation of efficient dedicated railway transportation infrastructure.**

===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Observation 1 is the Status Quo</span>=== 

**Nuclear renaissance now –industry consensus**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McMahon, 2012</span>,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeff Forbes, The Nuclear Renaissance Is Back, Industry Panel Says, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2012/09/27/the-nuclear-renaissance-is-back-industry-panel/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Encouraged by a new p</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> place to be for a utility.</span>

**It’s key to solve warming – its anthropogenic and causes extinction**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Lynas’12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[Mark, “Without nuclear, the battle against global warming is as good as lost”, Contributor, The Guardian, 9-14-12,</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/sep/14/nuclear-global-warming?newsfeed=true]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Let me be very clear. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Without nuclear, the battle against global warming is as good as lost</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. Even many greens now admit this in private moments. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">We are already witnessing the first signs of the</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> outcome is not worthy of the name.</span>

**Even if it doesn't, it kills BioD**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China View 2008</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>7/6/“Warming may cause rapid plant species loss on Qinghai-Tibet Plateau,” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-07/06/content_8498318.htm
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Global warming could cause a</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> degradation, are believed to be related to the warming trend. </span>

<span class="Author-Date">Biodiversity loss = extinction</span>
Science Daily 11 - Biodiversity Key to Earth's Life-Support Functions in a Changing Worldhttp://<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm|www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm]]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">The </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">biological diversity </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> range of ecosystem processes.</span>


**But meltdowns cripple the industry**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">USA Today 11 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants, 12/12/</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">] AE</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">There's never a shortage of AND</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> there's zero margin for major error.</span>

**They’re likely**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Alvarez 12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”, Winter, ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, RSR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Until the NAS completes its study, AND to areas of lower contamination.</span>

**And cause extinction**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Lendman 11 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(Stephen, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”, The People’s Voice </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">, accessed 8-2-12,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Reuters said the 1995 Kobe AND </span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">an apocalyptic event.</span>__**

**Status quo waste will go to the Yucca Repository**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Tollefson 11 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeff, former Knight fellow in science journalism at MIT, “Battle of Yucca Mountain rages on”, Nature, Vol. 473, No. 266, 5-19-11,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The commission intends to AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> many lives have been used up</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**Explosion is likely and results in extinction – top geologists agree.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Broad 90 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(William, NYT Staff, The New York Times, November 18)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">One scientist, however, has AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> world, that's it</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


**Nuclear waste facilities have no access to rails**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Glenn </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hess, 2005</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Nevada senators challenge DOE plan for nuclear waste train service, Chemical and Engineering News, http://pubs.acs.org/cen/news/83/i35/8335notw3.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevada's senators are AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">-related activities.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dedicated Rails specifically solve best </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear Waste Office, No Date</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, YuccaMountain.org FAQ's — Frenquely Asked Questions, http://www.yuccamountain.org/faq.htm#transport</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Answer: The DOE says it AND </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> and shipment security.</span>

**Leads to Severe accidents**
**Nevada** 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">99</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">State of Nevada Nuclear Waste Project Office Transportation of Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Radioactive Waste to a Repository, [[http://www.state.nv.us/nucwaste/trans/trfact03.htm]]</span>

Without rail access <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to AND </span> could also increase


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Observation 2 is Terrorism</span>=== 
**Temporary storage facilities inadequately secure nuclear materials**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Carol ’12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Carol, Citizen. “The task force responsible for revamping U.S. nuclear waste policy has issued its final report.” //TexasVox: The Voice of Public Citizen in Texas.// TexasVox, February 3, 2012. <http://texasvox.org/2012/02/03/the-task-force-responsible-for-revamping-u-s-nuclear-waste-policy-has-issued-its-final-report/.>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Among the recommendations for AND radioactive waste.</span>
**The US needs to secure its nuclear materials to prevent nuke terrorism**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">PSR 6</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear Weapon Security,” [[http://www.psr.org/nuclear-weapons/nuclear-weapon-security.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">With the end of the AND weapons worldwide</span>
**The high density storage of temporary nuclear facilities leaves risk of terrorism uniquely likely**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Princeton ’3</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Princeton University. “Study: High-density storage of nuclear waste heightens terrorism risks.” //News from Princeton University.// <http://www.princeton.edu/pr/news/03/q1/0213-nuclearfuel.htm.></span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">PRINCETON, N.J. -- </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A space-AND sabotage, the study contends.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism is likely and causes extinction – security experts agree.**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Rhodes 9</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award, “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety” 12-14, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, RSR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The response was very AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> of sending a message. </span>

**Only the WIPP solves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DOE 12 </span><span style="font-family: ArialMT,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">October 24, 2012, WIPP Security Contractor Receives DOE Voluntary Protection Program Award, CARLSBAD, N.M., http://www.wipp.energy.gov/pr/2012/Security%20Walls%20VPP.pdf</span>
Security Walls, LLC, AND <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that they show daily.”</span>


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Observation 3 is Peak Oil</span>=== 
**It’s here**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Worstall 12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Tim, Contributor, “Peak Oil is Here: Now What?”, Forbes, 5-2-12, http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2012/05/02/peak-oil-is-here-now-what/, RSR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">At least </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">peak oil is he AND to US$100/bbl.</span>
**Permanent repository key to nuclear leadership**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Domenici & Miller 12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[July; Pete: Senator and Senior Fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center Warren: PhD, is a private consultant and a part time Research Professor at Texas A & M University and assistant secretary for nuclear energy at the U.S. Department of Energy “Maintaining US Leadership in Global Nuclear Energy Markets: A Report of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Nuclear Initiative” (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Leadership%20in%20Nuclear%20Energy%20Markets.pdf)%5bKC|http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Leadership%20in%20Nuclear%20Energy%20Markets.pdf)[KC]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Given this near-term expansion, AND</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> weapons proliferation.</span>
**Which solves for dependency**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Szabo 10 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, J.D., George Washington University Law School; Financial Analyst, United States</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 3pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), 2010, “Reprocessing: The Future Of Nuclear Waste”, Temple Journal of Science, Technology & Environmental Law, Vol. 29, No. 2,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Energy independence AND hostile countries</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Oil depletion causes resources wars**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Howard 9</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Roger, “Peak Oil and Strategic Resource Wars.” Futurist, 00163317, September/October 2009, Vol. 43, Issue 5) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">At various points over the coming AND states in unexpected ways.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Lendman 7 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">(Stephen Lendman, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?,” Rense.com, 6-6-7, pg. http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">With the world's energy AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">of it, would have survived.</span>

**Peak oil kills economic recovery – outweighs resiliency and safeguards.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria 12</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Fareed, host of CNN foreign affairs program, “Zakaria: Why oil prices keep rising”, http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/09/zakaria-why-oil-prices-keep-rising/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The rising price of </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">oil is the</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> Iran, Iran and Iran</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**Economic growth solves war**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Jeddiah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signalling And The Problem Of Economic Crises”, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">on a dyadic level</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> in the use of force</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Observation 4 is Solvency</span>=== 
**A permanent deep geological repository is key to provide a safe storage place for the radioactive waste**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Vandenbosch 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[Susanne E. & Robert; American Physical Society “A Blue Ribbon Commissions Proposal for Breaking the Nuclear Waste Stalemate” (http://www.aps.org/units/fps/newsletters/201207/vandenbosch.cfm) [KC]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">It is under this key eleAND e for making nuclear weapons.</span>

**Only the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant solves radiation**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Harward 6</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(05/22/06, Don Waste Isolation Pilot Plant</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 2pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">Radiation Safety Manual, http://www.wipp.energy.gov/library/Information_Repository_A/Supplemental_Information/WP12-5.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A key element of the AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 5pt;"> contamination.</span>

**It will be safe**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">AP ’11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(The Associated Press, “Larger radioactive waste box arrives safely at Waste Isolation Pilot Plant near Carlsbad,” September 1, 2011, < [[http://lubbockonline.com/filed-online/2011-09-01/larger-radioactive-waste-box-arrives-safely-waste-isolation-pilot-plant-near#.ULVEZdPjm5I|http://lubbockonline.com/filed-online/2011-09-01/larger-radioactive-waste-box-arrives-safely-waste-isolation-pilot-plant-near#.ULVEZdPjm5I]].>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">CARLSBAD, N.M. — </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">The government AND </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> smaller waste boxes.</span>

**Fed key – legislation requires plant operators work through the DoE**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">CRS ’9</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Congressional Research Service, February 6, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Section 302 of NWPA AND from general revenues</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**7 reasons rails solve best**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">HELEN R. NEILL AND ROBERT H</span>. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">NEILL</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">No Date</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Helen Neill is an Associate Professor in the Department of Environmental Studies at the University of Nevada), Transportation of Transuranic Nuclear</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Waste to WIPP: A Reconsideration of Truck versus Rail for Two Sites, http://lawlibrary.unm.edu/nrj/40/1/05_neill_nuclear.pd</span>f

Shipments of waste by AND <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"> disrupts truck operations.</span>


Then we usually put in a short preempt card depending on the team

==1AC WIPP (Bowie)== 
===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear renaissance now – US subsidizing the industry</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Worthington 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (David Worthington, February 9, 2012, The U.S. nuclear renaissance has begun , Smart Planet, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/intelligent-energy/the-us-nuclear-renaissance-has-begun/13058]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">There are cooling towers… US$14 billion</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, CNN </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://money.cnn.com/2012/02/08/news/economy/nuclear_reactors/index.htm?hpt=hp_t3|reported.]]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Normal Means is onsite storage. Despite years of proposals, there is no current permanent location for nuclear wastes that are currently at power plants</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Wald ’12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Wald, Matthew L. “Will a Lame Duck Congress Confront Nuclear Waste?” //Green: A Blog About Energy and the Environment//. The New York Times, November 12, 2012. <http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/11/12/will-a-lame-duck-congress-confront-nuclear-waste</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">When Congress returns…</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">the commission’s chairman.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Although the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant is popular, determination to Yucca forestalls waste disposal. </span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Helman 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://search.forbes.com/search/colArchiveSearch?author=christopher+and+helman&aname=Christopher+Helman|Christopher]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, “Nuke Us!“, 01-25-12, Forbes Magazine dated February 13, 2012, [[http://www.forbes.com/forbes/2012/0213/feature-energy-carlsbad-new-mexico-nuke-us.html]]) //AE//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Yet thanks to politics even more radio­active than the material itself, it hasn’t happened yet and might not happen anytime soon. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Though taxpayers… that can be done.¶ </span>//

//**We have a high brink, temporary storage facilities are quickly reaching an unsustainable capacity**//
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Miller ’11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Miller, Craig. “Nuclear Waste Piles Up As Repository Plan Falters.” </span>//NPR. //NPR News, July 28, 2011. <http://www.npr.org/2011/07/28/138707937/nuclear-waste-piles-up-as-repository-plan-falters.>)//

//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Diablo Canyon nuclear… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">nuclear waste," she said.</span>//

//**In the long term, waste will be stored at the Yucca Mountain Repository– only option.**//
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Tollefson 11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeff, former Knight fellow in science journalism at MIT, “Battle of Yucca Mountain rages on”, Nature, Vol. 473, No. 266, 5-19-11,)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The commission intends to… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> been used up</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>//

//**Yucca explosion likely and results in extinction – top geologists agree.**//
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Broad 90</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(William, NYT Staff, The New York Times, November 18)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">One scientist, however, has… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">of the world, that's it</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>




===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Advantage 1 is Waste</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">In the short term US nuclear waste is stored on-site.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Galbraith 11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(Kate, Staff Writer, “A New Urgency to the Problem of Storing Nuclear Waste”, New York Times, 11-27-11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/28/business/energy-environment/a-new-urgency-to-the-problem-of-storing-nuclear-waste.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Other countries are… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">village of Bure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">On-site storage is dangerous – storage pools are vulnerable to accidents.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Alvarez 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Senior Scholar at IPS, where he is currently focused on nuclear disarmament, environmental, and energy policies, “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”, Winter, ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Until the NAS completes… of lower contamination.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The densely packed fuel is enough to trigger a full scaled meltdown – Fukushima proves.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Kinitisch 11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Eli, Reporter at Science Magazine, “Waste Panel Expected To Back Interim Storage”, Science Magazine, Vol. 333, 7-8-11,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">In any case, experts… tackle the subject.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">These catastrophic meltdowns cause extinction – reactors contain 100x the radiation of nuclear bombs. </span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lendman 11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(Stephen, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,”, The People’s Voice </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">, accessed 8-2-12,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Reuters said the 1995… </span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">could be</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, literally, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">an apocalyptic event.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Only the Waste Isolation Plant solves radiation- federal compliance is key</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Harward 6</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(05/22/06, Don Waste Isolation Pilot Plant</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 2pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">Radiation Safety Manual, http://www.wipp.energy.gov/library/Information_Repository_A/Supplemental_Information/WP12-5.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A key element of… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 5pt;">and radiological contamination.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Advantage 2 is Terrorism</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Temporary storage facilities inadequately secure nuclear materials</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Carol ’12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Carol, Citizen. “The task force responsible for revamping U.S. nuclear waste policy has issued its final report.” //TexasVox: The Voice of Public Citizen in Texas.// TexasVox, February 3, 2012. <http://texasvox.org/2012/02/03/the-task-force-responsible-for-revamping-u-s-nuclear-waste-policy-has-issued-its-final-report/.>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Among the recommendations… radioactive waste.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The US needs to secure its nuclear materials to prevent nuke terrorism</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">PSR No Date</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear Weapon Security,” [[http://www.psr.org/nuclear-weapons/nuclear-weapon-security.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">With the end of the… nuclear weapons worldwide</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The high density storage of temporary nuclear facilities leaves risk of terrorism uniquely likely</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Princeton ’3</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">(Princeton University. “Study: High-density storage of nuclear waste heightens terrorism risks.” //News from Princeton University.// <http://www.princeton.edu/pr/news/03/q1/0213-nuclearfuel.htm.></span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A space-saving… the study contends.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear terrorism is likely and causes extinction – security experts agree.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Rhodes 9</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award, “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety” 12-14, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The response was… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">of sending a message. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Failure to condemn terrorism as pure evil invites moral relativism about everything – makes any atrocity morally justified</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Dershowitz 3</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felix_Frankfurter|Felix Frankfurter]][[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professor|Professor]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;"> of Law at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_Law_School|Harvard Law School]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">, 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(Alan, The Case for Israel, Pages 193-194)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Yet </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">there is… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">—is morally equivalent. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Advantage 3 is Peak Oil</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Peak oil coming soon – newest data proves.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Worstall 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">(Tim, Contributor, “Peak Oil is Here: Now What?”, Forbes, 5-2-12, http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2012/05/02/peak-oil-is-here-now-what)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">At least </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">peak oil is here… to US$100/bbl.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">US disposal policies are modeled internationally- absent a permanent repository for nuclear waste, we’ll lose our leadership role in the nuclear power industry which will be filled in by other countries</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Domenici & Miller 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[July; Pete: Senator and Senior Fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center Warren: PhD, is a private consultant and a part time Research Professor at Texas A & M University and assistant secretary for nuclear energy at the U.S. Department of Energy “Maintaining US Leadership in Global Nuclear Energy Markets: A Report of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Nuclear Initiative” (http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Leadership%20in%</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">20Nuclear%20Energy%20Markets.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Given this near-term expansion… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">weapons proliferation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear power is the only way to avert catastrophic warming that causes extinction.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lynas, ’12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">[Mark, Contributor “Without nuclear, the battle against global warming is as good as lost”, The Guardian, 9-14-12,</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/sep/14/nuclear-global-warming?newsfeed=true]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Let me be very… worthy of the name.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear power solves for dependency</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Szabo 10</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, J.D., George Washington University Law School; Financial Analyst, United States</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 3pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), 2010, “Reprocessing: The Future Of Nuclear Waste”, Temple Journal of Science, Technology & Environmental Law, Vol. 29, No. 2,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Energy independence has… possible hostile countries</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Peak oil kills economic recovery – outweighs resiliency and safeguards.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Zakaria 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Fareed, host of CNN foreign affairs program, “Zakaria: Why oil prices keep rising”, http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/09/zakaria-why-oil-prices-keep-rising/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The rising price of… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Iran, Iran and Iran</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">40 year study proves oil key to the global economy</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Li 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Mingqi, Econ professor at the University of Utah, ““Here's Why The Economy Is More Vulnerable Than Ever To Oil Price Shocks”, http://www.businessinsider.com/heres-why-the-economy-is-more-vulnerable-than-ever-to-oil-price-shocks-2012-3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">This paper examines… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">economic expansion.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Economic growth solves war</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Royal 10</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Jeddiah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signalling And The Problem Of Economic Crises”, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">on a dyadic… in the use of force</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Oil depletion causes resources wars</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Howard 9</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Roger, “Peak Oil and Strategic Resource Wars.” Futurist, 00163317, September/October 2009, Vol. 43, Issue 5) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">At various points… in unexpected ways.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Resource wars cause extinction. </span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Lendman 7</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">(Stephen Lendman, Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?,” Rense.com, 6-6-7, pg. http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">With the world's energy… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">would have survived.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should increase it’s investment in the transportation of nuclear waste from temporary storage facilities to the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant permanent deep geological repository through the use and creation of roads and railways by an amount equal to a substantial increase in its investment in transportation infrastructure.</span>**


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 2 is Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A permanent deep geological repository is key to provide a safe storage place for the radioactive waste</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Vandenbosch 12</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[Susanne E. & Robert; American Physical Society “A Blue Ribbon Commissions Proposal for Breaking the Nuclear Waste Stalemate” (http://www.aps.org/units/fps/newsletters/201207/vandenbosch.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">It is under this key… nuclear weapons.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Fed key – legislation requires plant operators work through the DoE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">CRS ’9</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (Congressional Research Service, February 6, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Section 302 of NWPA… general revenues</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Empirics prove – Waste Isolation Pilot Plant is a safe place to transport nuclear waste</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">AP ’11</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">(The Associated Press, “Larger radioactive waste box arrives safely at Waste Isolation Pilot Plant near Carlsbad,” September 1, 2011, < [[http://lubbockonline.com/filed-online/2011-09-01/larger-radioactive-waste-box-arrives-safely-waste-isolation-pilot-plant-near#.ULVEZdPjm5I|http://lubbockonline.com/filed-online/2011-09-01/larger-radioactive-waste-box-arrives-safely-waste-isolation-pilot-plant-near#.ULVEZdPjm5I]].>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The government says… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">smaller waste boxes.</span>

==== ==== 

==1AC Climate Adaptation (St. Marks rd1)== 
===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
**Current efforts to protect transportation infrastructure from climate change are inadequate.**
**Ongoing climate change threatens the entire foundation of transportation infrastructure**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11</span> [Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]] AD]

**__The transportation planners, ……__** __Alaska by rail or road.__

===Plantext=== 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for climate adaptation**

===Advantage 1 is the Economy=== 
**Current recovery is fragile-long-term growth is uncertain**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Guardian 6/26 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ewen MacAskill and Dominic Rushe, “OECD Says US economy recovery but income equality problematic” June 26th, 2012, http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/26/oecd-us-economy-income-inequality)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The OECD report said </span>**__……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">held back exports</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">."</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
**Climate change will unravel current transportation infrastructure networks-This will wreck the economy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joanne R.</span> <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” [[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]]</span>
Transportation is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such </span>an **__……__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">days in traditionally cold climates.</span>

**Proactive measures now are critical to avert structural economic decline**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winkleman et al, ’12</span> [Steve Winkleman, Jan Muller, Erica Jue, associated with the CCAP and EESI, “CLIMATE ADAPTATION & TRANSPORTATION Identifying Information and Assistance Needs”, http://files.eesi.org/Climate_Adaptation_Transportation.pdf]

Extreme weather events, **__……__**understood.

===Scenario 1 is Poverty=== 

**The recession substantially increased global poverty.**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Global Economic Assessment by Austrilian Federal Government 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">October 12. AusAid’s response to the global recession. http://www.ausaid.gov.au/makediff/gec.cfm]</span>
The global recession has **__……__**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> leading the way. </span>
**Poverty causes violence that is worse than a perpetual nuclear war.**
**Abu-Jamal 98** [Mumia. Sept. 19. Incarcerated social activist and author who has written books and articles since being placed on death row. http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]

[Ghandi said] The **__……__**fight each other.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**And, Environmental degredation caused by food insecurity fuels genocides and risks global wars.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Trudell 5</span>
<span style="font-family: 'HJAONF+Arial',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robert H. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'HJAOND+Arial,Bold',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trudell</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'HJAONF+Arial',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, JD Candidate @ Syracuse Law, Fall 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'HJAOND+Arial,Bold',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">05</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'HJAONF+Arial',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce, 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277 </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'HJAONF+Arial',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In his study on </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'HJAOND+Arial,Bold',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">environmental </span>__****__……__**__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'HJAONF+Arial',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">out </span>__**__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'HJAOND+Arial,Bold',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">before it is too late. </span>__**

===Scenario 2 is War=== 
**Economic Collapse causes war – Prefer impacts with robust statistical data**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

Less intuitive is how **__……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to those views</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**Assign zero probability to impacts with zero data.**
//Zellner ’7//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Arnold. Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago. 2007. “Philosophy and objectives of econometrics”. __Journal of Econometrics__. Volume 136. Issue 2. Pages 331-339.</span>

There must be a uniform **__……__**effect unless shown otherwise.”

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Challenging //their// Form of Knowledge-Production Creates New Policy-Making Habits that Demand Strong Data.</span>**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Davies, 2k4. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">Philip Davies 2004 [PhD, Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office, “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?, Jerry Lee Lecture, 4th AnnualCampbell Collaboration ColloquiumWashington D.C.19 February 2004]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">‘There is nothing a government </span>**__……__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">and efficiency. </span>

===Advantage 2 is American Leadership=== 

**Failure to adopt climate adaptation measures in the transportation infrastructure sector threatens overall US military primacy. We’ll isolate three internal links.**
**First, Highways:**

**The status quo is failing to respond to the climate issue-Leadership on the highway vulnerability is critical to spur action.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meyer et al. 09,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael Frederick R. Dickerson Professor, School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, PhD Michael Flood Senior Planner at Parsons Brinckerhoff </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Chris Dorney Transportation/Land Use Planner at Parsons Brinckerhoff </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ken Leonard Principal of Cambridge Systematics, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert Hyman Associate at Cambride Systematics </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joel Smith expert on climate change policy, lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2001 and 2007 assessment report; the latter shared the Noble Peace Prize with former Vice President Al Gore. Vice-President of Stratus Consulting, Boulder, CO. “Climate Change and the Highway System: Impacts and Adaptation Approaches”. National Cooperative Highway Research Program. 5/6/2009 http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/docs/NCHRP20-83%2805%29_Task2-3SynthesisReport.pdf)</span>
There is a growing **__……__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of climate </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">uncertainty.</span>

**Climate change threatens road system-multiple reasons-Delaying mitigation measures magnifies the impacts**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FHWA 10’ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Federal Highway Administration, US Department of Transportation, “Regional Climate Change Effects: Useful Information for Transportation Agencies”, http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/climate_change/adaptation/resources_and_publications/climate_effects/effects03.cfm]</span>

"Climate affects the **__……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">change may cause.</span>__**

**This threatens military effectiveness**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cox and Love 96</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(Wendell and Jean, American Highways Users Alliance, "40 Years of the US Interstate Highway System: An Analysis The Best Investment A Nation Ever Made," June,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.publicpurpose.com/freeway1.htm]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

One of the principal **__……__**//post-Cold War era.//

**Second, Airports:**
**Absent adaptation measures, climate change will impair the smooth operation of airports**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11</span> [Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]] AD]
**__The potential__** //serious// **__……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">components of the airport infrastructure.</span>__**

**Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of the Air Force ’01</span> [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf]] AD]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Air National Guard is </span>**__……__**significant player in the Aerospace Expeditionary Force.

**And, US primacy is key to solve great power wars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhand & Shi 11</span> - *Yuhan, a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. *** AND*** Lin, Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry” [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the past two decades, no </span>**__……__**US primacy.

===Contention 2 is Solvency=== 

**Investment in new design, construction, and maintenance of transportation infrastructure is critical to mitigating the effects of climate change**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation Research Board of the National Academies ’11</span> [Transportation Research Board, “ Adapting Transportation to the Impacts of Climate Change”, June 2011, Transportation Research Circular, E-C152, [[http://www.trb.org/Publications/Blurbs/165529.aspx]] AD]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">T</span>**__he projected effects ……__**//appropriate adaptation strategies.//
**The Federal government is uniquely positioned to encourage climate adaptation in the transportation sector-Leveraging federal public transportation assets is key to motivating changes in the private sector**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neumann ’09</span> – Resources for the Future think tank [Resources for the Future, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”, December 2009, Resources for the Future Issue Brief 09-15, [[http://www.rff.org/rff/documents/RFF-IB-09-15.pdf]]]

__<span style="color: #262626;">The main threats presented by </span>**……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and extreme events</span>**__<span style="color: #262626;">.</span>

**Only federal leadership can overcome institutional obstacles to climate adaptation reforms.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NTPP ‘9</span> (National Transportation Policy Project, Bipartisan coalition of transportation policy experts, business and civic leaders, and is chaired by four distinguished former elected officials who served at the federal, state, and local levels, Published December 15 2009, Bipartisan Policy Center, [[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Transportation%20Adaptation%20(3).pdf]])

The adaptation **__……__**infrastructure planning.


==1AC Dementia (St. Marks)== 

===Contention 1 is the Status Quo=== 
**The American Disabilities Act mandated transportation accessibility for people with disabilities—unfortunately federal definitions only included physical impairment, facilitating the systematic exclusion of people with cognitive disability.**
//Carmien et al. ’5//<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Stefan Carmien et al. Researchers at University of Colorado, Boulder. June 2005. “Socio-Technical Environments Supporting People with Cognitive Disabilities Using Public Transportation”. __ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction__ 12:2. Pages 234-235.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over the past 35 years…… </span> intended by the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1990 </span>ADA<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Contention 2 is Automobility=== 
**Since 1999 the number of older people driving has increased by over 10 million and many times they are impaired by cognitive disabilities causing car accidents.**
//CDC No Date//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Center for disease control, Older Drivers Data and Statistics, Accessed August 30, 12, http://www.cdc.gov/Motorvehiclesafety/Older_Adult_Drivers/data.html)</span>

In 2008, more <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…… </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">death rates than females.4</span>

**Motor vehicle accidents are costly to the government and result in millions of deaths.**
//Naumann ’10//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Rebecca Naumann. Researcher for Center for Disease Control and Prevention. 2010. “Incidence and Total Lifetime Costs of Motor Vehicle-Related Fatal and Nonfatal Injury by Road User Type, United States, 2005”. __Traffic Injury Prevention__. Page 357.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2005, </span>motor…. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">had to pay about $172.</span>



**Prefer our impacts—grounded in robust statistical data.**
//Naumann ’10//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Rebecca Naumann. Researcher for Center for Disease Control and Prevention. 2010. “Incidence and Total Lifetime Costs of Motor Vehicle-Related Fatal and Nonfatal Injury by Road User Type, United States, 2005”. __Traffic Injury Prevention__. Pages 354-355.</span>

Fatality incidence…. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the methods in further detail.¶ </span>

**Assign zero probability to impacts with zero data**.
//Zellner ’7//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Arnold. Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago. 2007. “Philosophy and objectives of econometrics”. __Journal of Econometrics__. Volume 136. Issue 2. Pages 331-339.</span>

There must be a…… shown otherwise.”

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Challenging //their// Form of Knowledge-Production Creates New Policy-Making Habits that Demand Strong Data.</span>**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Davies, 2k4. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">Philip Davies 2004 [PhD, Government Chief Social Researcher’s Office, “Is Evidence-Based Government Possible?, Jerry Lee Lecture, 4th AnnualCampbell Collaboration ColloquiumWashington D.C.19 February 2004]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">‘There is nothing a…. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">ffectiveness and efficiency. </span>


----
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Thus, the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in participatory transportation infrastructure for persons with dementia.</span>
----


===Contention 3 is Stigma=== 
**The biomedical model of seeing dementia causes people to see those with dementia disgust and fear much like the zombie, they are not quite living yet not quite dead. This treatment and stigmatization leads to the inevitable dehumanization of those with dementia.**
//Behuniak ’11//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Susan Behuniak. Department of Political Science at Le Moyne College.2011. “The living dead? The construction of people with Alheimer’s disease as zombies”. __Ageing &Society__. Pages 73-77.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harre ́ and Moghaddam….. </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">the dehumanisation of people with AD.</span>

**Exclusion of disabled bodies underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations.**
//Siebers ’10//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)</span>

Disqualification as a symbolic….. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of justifiable human inferiority. </span>

**Using a participatory model solves for the discrimination against those with cognitive disabilities, causes transportation planners to adapt technologies better.**
//Carmien et al. ’5//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Stefan Carmien et al. Researchers at University of Colorado, Boulder. June 2005. “Socio-Technical Environments Supporting People with Cognitive Disabilities Using Public Transportation”. __ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction__ 12:2. Pages 256-257.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even when transportation ….. or nonnative speaker.</span>

**Participatory transportation planning solves—people with dementia control decision-making processes regarding pathways and visual cues.**
//Mitchell ’12//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Dr. Lynne Mitchell. University of Warwick. June 2012. “Breaking New Ground: The Quest for Dementia Friendly Communities”. Housing Learning & Improvement Network. Pages 15-16.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The other research….. and ornamentation56, 57.</span>

**By engaging and respecting those with dementia and their ideas we are able to break out of the zombie metaphor.**
//Behuniak ’11//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Susan Behuniak. Department of Political Science at Le Moyne College.2011. “The living dead? The construction of people with Alheimer’s disease as zombies”. __Ageing &Society__. Pages 85-88.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether used inadvertently,….. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by a ‘politics of humanity’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 
**Participatory planning is a prerequisite to overcoming stigma—cognitive disability is empowered at the level of community politics, overcoming bureaucratic transportation planning.**
//LoPresti ’8//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edmund LoPresti. Faculty at University of Pittsburgh Department of Rehab Science and Technology. 2008. With Cathy Bodine and Clayton Lewis. “Assistive Technology for Cognition: Understanding the Needs of Persons with Disabilities”. __IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine__. Pages 35-36.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although user testing,….. but also very disorienting.</span>

**Participatory planning solves only by actually engaging those with dementia will we be able to solve the stigma against those with cognitive disabilities.**
//Blackman et al. ’3//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tim Blackman. School of Social Sciences and Law at University of Teesside. 2003. With Lynne Mitchell of Oxford Brookes University. “The Accessibility of Public Spaces for People with Dementia: A new priority for the ‘open city’”. __Disability & Society__ 18:3. Pages 365-367.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Participation in Planning and Design…… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">requirements for the open city.</span>


**Experiential knowledge becomes incorporated into dynamic policy processes of adaptive transportation infrastructure**.
//LoPresti ‘8//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Edmund LoPresti. Faculty at University of Pittsburgh Department of Rehab Science and Technology. 2008. With Cathy Bodine and Clayton Lewis. “Assistive Technology for Cognition: Understanding the Needs of Persons with Disabilities”. __IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine__. Pages 35-36.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although user testing…….. projects in the right direction.</span>

=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===Politics=== 

Immigration Reform w/ science diplo or econ


==<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 18px;">PPP</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CP TEXT: Congress should give states flexibility to pursue alternative financing sources—public-private partnerships (PPPs), tolling and user fees, and low-cost borrowing through innovative credit and bond programs for purposes of _</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The CP solves the case</span>**
**__Thomasson ’12__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm in Washington, DC. He most recently served as a policy director at a nonprofit think tank and has testified before Congress about current proposals for financing infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scott, June. “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment.” Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 17. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771]]</span>

**__Congress can__** **__…__** estate investment trusts (REITs).

===China SWF=== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government _ with those funds.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">**The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China** </span>
//Richter, ’11//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Many Americans … can be avoided.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">We have a linear net benefit – every dollar spent by China on US Infrastructure decreases the risk of dollar dumping</span>**
//Reuters 2011//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> – largest news agency in Europe, (“China may channel reserves to U.S. infrastructure –minister”, Reuters, December 12, 2011,</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond;">[[http://www.reuters.com/places/china|China]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> may channel … procurement policies</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Chinese bond-selling results in global financial panic and crushes the US economy</span>**
//Wharton 9//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> – Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, (“Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” 9/2/09, [[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332)//JKahn]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">As the global economy … -denominated reserves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Extinction</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Bearden 00</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">– Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 1pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[T. E., “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” Space Energy Access Systems, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">History bears out … at least for many decades.</span>
==**<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Kritiks</span>**== 
===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Heidegger</span>=== 


**We call our argument Rage of the World Picture, aka The Highway Phenomenology.**

**The affirmative project is founded on the very roots of Western metaphysics which promises to bring peace to every corner of the world, rendering both people and places as standing-reserve, ready-at-hand to be both controlled and managed.**

**Despite the best intentions of their supposedly benevolent internationalism, however, the 1ac only recalls an imperial consciousness which is based on a total colonization and pacification of the other—making any and all systems of violence inevitable.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spanos 2000</span>** William V.. Dove. //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of an Empire//. pp. 56-59

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The end of the pursuit of knowledge,</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">dominant culture’s representation of the contemporary, “postcolonial,” occasion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Our argument is not that certain technologies are bad per se but that the affirmative is bound up in a limited way of understanding the world which we term “modern technology” that includes both calculated manipulations of instruments to harness the earth and the accompanying philosophical grounding that justifies its development.**

**The failure to resist technologies slow motion destruction of nature otweighs complete nuclear war annihilation – vote negative to avoid loss of our relation to being**
**Zimmerman 94** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Michael E. Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity p. 119-120]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Heidegger asserted that </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">human self-assertion,</span>__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">because they were never "disclosed" by humanity.</span>


**Our alternative is to do nothing. However, let us be clear what doing nothing actually entails—it is not a devolution to passive nihilism but rather a call to rumination, to mediation, to reflection or whatever term you may choose. It is an escape from the confines of technological thought to allow other ways of thinking and being-in-the-world to reveal themselves.**

**In the face of nuclear winter, economic collapse and environmental catastrophe, we must remember that it is our forgetfulness, our forgetting that there are other modes of thinking other than calculatively, technologically, or pragmatically, that not only lie at the heart of these problems but threaten to overwhelm us with an even greater loss—the loss of ourselves and what it means to be human in this world.**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">McWhorter 92</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ladelle McWhorter. Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State University. “Guilt as Management Technology: A Call to Heideggerian Reflection.” Heidegger and the Earth: Essays in Environmental Philosophy. 1992. pp. 3-9)</span>

Heidegger’s work is a call to reflect, to think
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
what is shattered eventually is ourselves<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>




===<span style="font-size: 110%;">Cap</span>=== 

**A new wave of revolts and tension is inevitable – capitalism is unraveling we must only learn to read the signs**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**__Zizek 7/25__**- </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology in Ljubljana [Slavoj], 2012,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://criticallegalthinking.com/2012/08/03/signs-from-the-future/-http://criticallegalthinking.com/2012/08/03/signs-from-the-future/|http://criticallegalthinking.com/2012/08/03/signs-from-the-future/-]] AE</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">So where do we stand …. con­tin­gen­cies”). </span>

**Infrastructure projects are the epitome of capitalism – infrastructure supports market consumption by generating collective energy for time economies and growth. The plan falls in reliance to capitalism, making the stranglehold tighter.**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Connolly 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (William E, Krieger-Eisenhower Professor at Johns Hopkins University where he teaches political theory, "Steps toward an Ecology of Late Capitalism," Theory and Event Vol. 15 Issue 1, 2012, Muse) AE</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 5pt;"></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> 3. Today, perhaps </span>the<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> initial </span>….<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and citizen activism. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Capitalism results in endless war and inter-state competition—impact is nuclear annihilation.</span>**
**__Callinicos ’4__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Alex, Director of the Centre for European Studies at King’s College, The Revolutionary Ideas of Karl Marx, 2004 pg. 196-197</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Capitalism has not changed… we must act on it.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And you have an a-priori ethical obligation to reject capitalism. There may be some things worse than death, but you will never know because capitalism makes its victims anonymous.</span>**
**__Zizek and Daly ’4__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, page 14-16</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For Zizek __it is…__ otherwise sound matrix.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our alternative is to reject capitalism in all instances</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">In the context of the affirmative, this means to do nothing. Refusal to take action breaks down the pseudo-activity that maintains capitalism and steers away from past Communist failures</span>**
**__Zizek ’8__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—Senior Research @ Institute for Social Studies-Ljubljana [Slavoj, Violence, p. 207-217]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mutatis mutandis, the same… </span>**__doing nothing is the most violent thing to do__**__.__


===Cap Redux=== 

**//The alternative: problematize the foundations of the 1AC.//**

**Our advocacy creates a line of flight – a mode of escape – that allows a small re-articulation towards capitalism. The line of flight escapes the constant confinement of the capitalist apparatus and creates the space for the revolutionary ethic.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze AND Guattari 1972</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, [AO, 340-342] AE</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">From the viewpoint of the unconscious.... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">upon a sociohistorical field.</span>

===Egotism=== 

**Death is a fantasy – our biology means we cannot truly “die” or cease to be, rather we enter a new form of becoming: becoming earth. Becoming-nitrogen. Even if we are all wiped from the face of the earth in a hailstorm of nuclear bombs the process of life goes on even at the micro level. There is no unique warrant for why the biological construct of human deserves a place higher than the construct of atoms. This desire to be secure from death is the most personal level of microfascism that negates our ability to live life to its fullest and breeds ressentiment.**
**//Deleuze and Guattari 72//** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[AO, 330-39] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it seems that things are.... "bring off" frustration.</span>

**Our alternative is to problematize the foundations of the 1AC.**
**This is a process of making something that was formerly seen as true into a complex and uncertain mess of questions, making further action impossible because we have an ethico-political deadlock in the form of a problem. We open up the space to question why we allowed ourselves to become entrenched in fascist global capital and demand a more efficient tomorrow.**
**//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze & Guattari 72</span>//** [AO, 366-8]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span> fourth and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">final... </span>the ruins of institutions”

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">{whiteness}</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The 1ac’s celebration of participatory democracy is grossly inadequate to theorize the singularity of antiblackness. Civil society is founded upon the murder of Black and Red bodies.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">20</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> [Frank B., killed apartheid officials in South Africa, nuff said, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 1-5]</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">What are we to make of a… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">political theory that follows. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Sociological empirics codify the category of “exploitation” as the base grammar of suffering. It is this libidinal economy of anti-blackness which exists as the condition of possibility for the violence of the world.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">20</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> [Frank B., again, dude straight up MURKED white supremacists like buk buk, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 10-11]</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Regarding the Black position… University awaits an answer. </span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">**Thus we should focus our energies and points of attention on an unflinching paradigmatic analysis that calls for the end of America.** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">20</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> [Frank B., I told you he was on some guerilla shit, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages ix-x]</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">STRANGE As it might seem, …. , and S'bu Zulu. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Life will not change for the better absent an assault on the establishment. That doesn’t mean we will live to enjoy the fruits of the revolution but it DOES mean that we should pursue revolutionary suicide because death is inevitable and this is the only one worth pursuing. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Huey P. </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Newton </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">19</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">73</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">, Co-founder of the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, Revolutionary Suicide, pages 2-6 gender modified</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Connected to </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">reactionary… people who use it. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">If our alternative leads to violent revolution, that most definitely solves </span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">George </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Jackson</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">19</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">**72**,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> Revolutionary, Blood in My Eye, pages 59-62 </span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The enemy culture,…. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">a determined internal enemy.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Kritik outweighs – their impacts are __experiential__, black suffering is __ontological__ and sets the stage for __all__ other impacts</span>**

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Frank </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">, 20</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> (revolutionary, “The Vengeance of Vertigo: Aphasia and Abjection in the Political Trials of Black Insurgents,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Garamond; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/79282989/Wilderson-the-Vengeance-of-Vertigo]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> >:)</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11pt;">Subjective vertigo is…. of Human subalterns.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">**Their calls to prevent wars just gloss over the ongoing living apocalypse for people of color.** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Rodriguez 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">**(**Dylan, 2008, Assistant Professor at University of California Riverside, Abolition Now! P. 93-100) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">We are</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">collectively… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">drowned in blood."</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond;">**Policy is only going to come after our radical abolitionist pedagogy starts to go into effect, fw hacks take the bench** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;">Rodriguez 10</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, Dylan, D Rod Will Make Ya Jump, “Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position”, Radical Teacher, Number 88, Summer </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">2010</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, p. 7-19</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 9pt;">Perhaps, then, there is… </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">this form of pedagogical audacity.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Garamond;">recent 2nrs</span>== 


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">berkeley</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r1 vs dallas jesuit pm (inland waterways)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r3 vs carrolton ar (icebreakers</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r6 vs hoflo (nola)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">trips vs san deiguito hw (its)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">china cp</span>


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">tfa</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r1 vs ghill sp (bering strait)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger + occularcentrism</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r3 vs hebron ak (nola)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">rd5 vs kinkaid yb (jarc)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">friere</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">dubz vs ghill gr (bering strait)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger</span>


===<span style="font-family: Garamond;">nfl districts</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r2 vs llano (inland waterways)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">politics + case</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">r3 vs hendrickson bs (fasching disabilities)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">heidegger + friere </span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond;">That's all folks</span>