[[toc]]
**2A: Elliott Turner**
**2N: Zach Maghirang**

=Affirmative= 
==1ACs== 
===Port Security=== 
**Contention 1: Inherency**
----
**1. Washington just turned down a bill to up port security – our ports are uniquely susceptible in the squo**
Bobby Calvan, political analyst for The Boston Globe, 7-12-2012, “US to miss target for tighter port security” The Boston Globe, http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb, //eR//
//WASHINGTON - The Department of Homeland Security will miss an initial deadline of July 12//
//AND//
//government’s own estimate, with some shipments getting only a cursory paperwork review.//

//**2. Port security is currently underfunded**//
//Anthony Kimery, ASBPE 2011 winning journalist, 3-9-12, “Counternarcotics, Terrorism & Intelligence Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” HSToday, [[http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html]], TF//
//This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of//
//AND//
//such a drastic reduction of funds will have negative consequences on port security.//

----
**Contention 2: Advantages**
----
**Advantage 1: Terrorism**
----
**1. Ports are vulnerable to terrorist attack – current funding levels don’t solve**
CFR; Council on Foreign Relations; January 2006; “Targets for Terrorism: Ports;” Council on Foreign Relations; [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215]] ET
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports? ¶ Yes. Experts warn that
AND
the United States and many other harbors, piers, and ferry landings.

**2. We isolate two impact scenarios:**
**A) Nuclear Terrorism**
Middle Eastern proliferation ensures that terrorists will have access to nuclear weapons
Greg Sheridan, foreign editor, 7-26-2012, “COMPLEX WEB OF TERROR AND NUKES MAGNIFIES THREATS” The Australian, Lexis eR
This is part of the very difficult nexus of terrorism and traditional strategic issues.
AND
earth that terrorists are likelier to come by some nuclear material than Pakistan.

**1. The threat of port terrorism is high – Coast Guard can solve port security**
Mr. Maxwell; a senior instructor in the Marine Training Branch of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia; and Mr. Blanda; a senior instructor in the Marine Training Branch of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia; 2005; “Terror by sea: the unique challenges of port security;”
[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Terror+by+sea%3a+the+unique+challenges+of+port+security.-a0137713576]] ET
¶ Post-September 11 World Before the tragic events of September 11, marine
AND
the strengthening of the security posture and reduction of vulnerability of American ports.

**2. Nuclear terrorist attack or regional conflict spreads - causes extinction**
ABC News; the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journalism|news]] gathering and broadcasting division of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Broadcasting_Company|American Broadcasting Company]]; Dec. 12, 2006; “Even a Small Nuclear War Could Change the World;” ABC News; [[http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/story?id=2720173&page=1]] ET
The decline of the Soviet Union may have left many Americans feeling safer from nuclear
AND
years ago. It is more, they said repeatedly. Much more.

**3. Improving the ability to detect nuclear weapons decreases the probability of attack**
Jonathon Medalia, Specialist in National Defense¶ Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 1-24-2005, “CRS Report for Congress” Congressional Research Service, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]], CP
The 9/11 Commission wrote,¶ “Opportunities to do harm are as great
AND
Congress is how to allocate security funds among ports and other potential targets.

**B) Oil Terrorism:**
**1. Our ports are key to trade and oil – security is key to prevent terrorist attacks**
Mr. Maxwell; a senior instructor in the Marine Training Branch of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia; and Mr. Blanda; a senior instructor in the Marine Training Branch of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia; 2005; “Terror by sea: the unique challenges of port security;”
[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Terror+by+sea%3a+the+unique+challenges+of+port+security.-a0137713576]] ET
The United States always has defended its borders and natural resources from harm. Unlike
AND
as the Mississippi River obviously requires protection from the threat of maritime terrorism.

**2. Oil terrorism is a major threat – tanks US economy**
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM AND NONPROLIFERATION; standing subcommittee within the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_Foreign_Affairs_Committee|House Foreign Affairs Committee]]; WEDNESDAY, JULY 27, 2005; “TERRORIST THREATS TO ENERGY SECURITY;” Committee on International Relations; [[http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/intlrel/hfa22655.000/hfa22655_0f.htm]] ET¶
The possibility of energy terrorism—attacks on the world's energy infrastructure—doesn't generate
AND
attacks abroad could hurt us as if they were committed here at home.

**3. Seaports vital to US economy – many warrants**
AAPA American Association of Port Authorities 2009 “New Study Details Economic Benefits of U.S. Seaports” [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/press/prdetail.cfm?itemnumber=3485]] JD
Last year, United States deep-draft seaports and seaport-related businesses generated
AND
$1,976.4 billion, or nearly $2 trillion.

**4. US economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
By [[http://online.wsj.com/search/term.html?KEYWORDS=AARON+FRIEDBERG&bylinesearch=true|AARON FRIEDBERG]]; professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School; and [[http://online.wsj.com/search/term.html?KEYWORDS=GABRIEL+SCHOENFELD&bylinesearch=true|GABRIEL SCHOENFELD]]; senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J.; OCTOBER 21, 2008; “The Dangers of a Diminished America - In the 1930s, isolationism and protectionism spurred the rise of fascism;” Wall Street Journal; [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]] ET
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
disastrous effects of disengagement and the stiff price tag of continued American leadership.

----
**Advantage 2: US-Japan Alliance**
----
**1. Growing instability in Asia due to military expansion**
Lindsey Ford; research associate at the Center for a New American Security; December 2009; “The Value of the U.S.-Japan Sea Power Alliance;” Pacific Forum CSIS; [[http://csis.org/files/publication/issuesinsights_v09n22.pdf]] ET
The most important issue the U.S. will face in the Asian maritime
AND
minimize the risk of conflict or miscommunications associated with increasingly crowded regional waters.

**2. US – Japan Alliance key to solve Asian instability**
Lindsey Ford; research associate at the Center for a New American Security; December 2009; “The Value of the U.S.-Japan Sea Power Alliance;” Pacific Forum CSIS; [[http://csis.org/files/publication/issuesinsights_v09n22.pdf]] ET
The rapid military buildup of maritime forces in the region will only intensify the challenge
AND
play a leading role in ensuring the Asian region remains peaceful and prosperous.

**3. Container scanning at ports and tech key to US – Japan cooperation and alliance**
Brian Harding; research associate at the Center for a New American Security; December 2009; “U.S. Port Security and the U.S.-Japan Alliance;” Pacific Forum CSIS; [[http://csis.org/files/publication/issuesinsights_v09n22.pdf]] ET
¶ The principal security responsibility of the U.S. government is to protect
AND
goods transported through Japan, and to the United States, originate. 4

**There are two impact scenarios:**
**A) South China Sea**
**1. Tensions over South China Sea high – lead to US – China conflict**
[[http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&n=james.grubel&|James Grubel]]; Senior Correspondent, Canberra; Tue Jun 28, 2011 6:55am EDT; “South China Sea disputes could lead to Asian war: think tank;” Reuters; [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/28/us-southchinasea-idUSTRE75R0C820110628]] ET
(Reuters) - Risks are growing that incidents at sea involving [[http://www.reuters.com/places/china|China]] could lead
AND
Japan and China, to allow real-time responses to any incidents.

**2. US – China war causes extinction**
Ching Cheong; China Correspondent, Chief Journalist for Strait Times; June 25, 2k; “No one gains in war over Taiwan;” Strait Times, Singapore; Lexis Nexis
The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American
AND
War was to assess Chinese actions according to the American way of thinking.

**B) Asian Prolif:**
**1. Asian instability leads to nuclear proliferation**
Brad Roberts; US Military Academy; August 2001; “East Asia’s Nuclear Future: A Long-Term View of Threat Reduction;” Defense Threat Reduction Agency; [[http://www.wslfweb.org/docs/dtraasco/east_asia_nuke_future.pdf]] ET
For many U.S. security analysts, the nuclear problem in East Asia
AND
¶ could fall in Asia, along with nuclear wildcards and nuclear flashpoints.

**2. Asian proliferation escalates to nuclear conflict- causes extinction**
Stephen J. Cimbala; Distinguished Professor of Political Science, Penn State; March 2008; “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia;” Comparative Strategy, , Vol. 27 #2
The spread of nuclear weapons in Asia presents a complicated mosaic of possibilities in this
AND
could overturn these expectations for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.

----
**Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its grants for port security in the United States.**
----

**Contention 3: Solvency**
----
**1. PSG key to good port security**
Captain John M. Holmes Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles 3/7/2012 “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency – Director and State & Local Witnesses” [[http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]] JD
Since 9/11, port security has become a top priority for U.
AND
levels we have worked so ¶ hard to build over the last decade.

**2. Federal investment key – Coast Guard risk – based strategy will cost less in long term**
Jospeh F. Bouchard, Ph.D.; Executive Director of the Center for Homeland Security and Defense, United States Navy Captain; 2005; “New Strategies to Protect America: Safer Ports for a More Secure Economy;” [[http://www.americanprogress.org/kf/port_security.pdf]] ET
funding for MTSA implementation and long-term¶ sustainability. Meeting MTSA mandates and
AND
transportation priorities, such as the security fee added to all airline tickets.

**3. Coast Guards key to port security – solve standards and container inspections**
CFR; Council on Foreign Relations; January 2006; “Targets for Terrorism: Ports;” Council on Foreign Relations; [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215]] ET
Who guards U.S. ports? ¶ The captain of the port—
AND
being loaded abroad, before they ever reach U.S. ports.



===AACs=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should fully invest in the development of airborne aircraft carriers through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.**

----
**Contention 1 is Inherency**
----

**1. AACs cancelled in 2010 – feasible now**
James Martin; photojournalist and media producer for CNET; July 17, 2012; “Aeroscraft: The future of luxury travel?”; CNET [[http://news.cnet.com/2300-11386_3-10012946.html]] ET
The Aeroscraft is being planned by Worldwide Aeros Corporation and is the result of 25
AND
the 60-ton capacity ML868 and the 500-ton capacity ML86X.

**2. Other methods of AACs have failed – but tech now and AACs key to air superiority**
Frank Swain; scientific staff writer, Bachelor’s degree in Biology and a Master’s in Natural Resource Management; 7/17/2012 “[[http://scienceblogs.com/sciencepunk/2012/07/17/airborne-aircraft-carriers-take-to-the-air/|Airborne aircraft carriers take to the air]];” Science Blog; [[http://scienceblogs.com/sciencepunk/2012/07/17/airborne-aircraft-carriers-take-to-the-air/]] ET
Some time back, I pitched a few editors the idea of doing something on
AND
can afford it. It’ll be interesting to see how this pans out.

----
**Contention 2 is the Economy**
----

**Economic growth is anemic and unemployment is high – continued slow growth makes US economy vulnerable**
Annie Lowry, economic journalist for the New York Times, Harvard University, 12/4/12 “Republicans Balk at Short-Term Stimulus in Obama Plan,” New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/05/business/economy/republicans-balk-at-obamas-short-term-stimulus.html?src=recgET
¶ As the debate rages in Washington, data has shown the recovery once again
AND
-year income tax rebate to give the recovery some breathing room. ¶

**We’ll isolate two internal links:**

**First is mobility**
**1. AACs allows for cargo transport virtually anywhere – revolutionizes transportation and commercial infrastructure**
[[http://www.gizmag.com/author/mike-hanlon/|Mike Hanlon]]; staff writer; September 6, 2005; “The Walrus: the US Army contemplates building an aircraft the size of a football field;” Gizmag – New and Emerging Technology News; [[http://www.gizmag.com/go/4538/]] ET
The up-side for society¶ One of the companies in the mix to
AND
, point-to-point, without sea and air port infrastructures.

**2. Mobility in transportation is the pillar of economic growth**
Alastair Kent-Johnston, the Managing Director of Harrison Grierson and is responsible for the operational performance of the New Zealand and Australian companies, He has over 35 years of experience in providing project management and engineering expertise on land development and civil siteworks projects to a range of both private and corporate clients, Apr 20, 2011, “Transport Infrastructure - Mobility the Key to Economic Growth,” Articles Base, [[http://www.articlesbase.com/economics-articles/transport-infrastructure-mobility-the-key-to-economic-growth-4643777.html]] ET
Transport infrastructure is an essential component of any economy, which can positively or adversely
AND
into synergetic transportation systems that not only enhance, but promote economic growth.

**3. Even absent a recession, slow growth leads to global wars**
Khalilzad 11 – PhD, Former Professor of Political Science @ Columbia, Former ambassador to Iraq and Afghanistan
Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Economy and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024
Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.

**Second is the aerospace industry**
**1. Sequestration destroys the economy now – aerospace spending is key to providing jobs**
Marion C. Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries Association, former FAA administrator, 2-13-12, “350,000 Aerospace and Defense Workers' Jobs at Stake” http://traveltips.ulitzer.com/node/2164551
The budget released by the administration today is not a shot over the bow of
AND
of the budget crisis will undoubtedly be the first to demand an answer.

**2. AACs solve aerospace, military flex, trade and all air transportation**
Mike Hanlon; staff writer; November 6, 2006; “Aeros to develop peacetime Walrus that will will do to the cargo industry what Internet did for information exchange;” Gizmag – New and Emerging Technology News; http://www.gizmag.com/go/4538/ ET
The DARPA Walrus program, one of the most ambitious projects ever scoped, may
AND
United Technologies' Pratt & Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand companies, and ATK GASL.

**3. THE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY IS KEY TO THE U.S. ECONOMY.**
Owen Hernnstadt, director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW, 2008, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html
Aerospace is an especially important industry for a nation's economic and physical security, and
AND
as aerospace, can be detrimental to U.S. national interests.

**4. US economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
By AARON FRIEDBERG; professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School; and GABRIEL SCHOENFELD; senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J.; OCTOBER 21, 2008; “The Dangers of a Diminished America - In the 1930s, isolationism and protectionism spurred the rise of fascism;” Wall Street Journal; http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html ET
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture
AND
disastrous effects of disengagement and the stiff price tag of continued American leadership.

----
**Contention 3 is Air Power**
----
**1. China is rising now – their increased military, economy and fighter jets are challenging US leadership**
Peter W. Singer, director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, January 2013 “Inside China's Secret Arsenal,” Popular Science, Jan. Issue (Volume 282 No.1)
¶ The Chinese government is rapidly building a bigger, more sophisticated military. Here’s
AND
well as computers involved in the F-35 joint strike fighter program.

**2. AACs solve air superiority, ground forces and global military operations**
Aeros; an aviation company that operates under an FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) Production Certificate building lighter-than-air products and innovating in aviation technology; No Date, Accessed 8/11/12; “Aeroscraft Military;” Aeros; [[http://www.aeroscraft.com/#/military/4565225603|http://www.aeroscraft.com/#/military/4565225603]] ET<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
The Aeroscraft will provide the U.S. Military with superior air transport capabilities
AND
Minimize surface convoys (avoid IEDs)¶ Transformational Capability in Worldwide Air Mobility¶

**3. Air power prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
Zalmay Khalilzad and Ian O. Lesser. “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy,” 1998 [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/]]
The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American
AND
effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea. 

**4. Air power is vital to U.S. hegemony**
Major William K. Lewis, senior pilot in the T-37, T-38, AT-38 and F-15 Eagle, Distinguished Graduate of the Squadron Officer School and the Air Command and Staff College, and graduate of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies, June 2002, “UCAV – THE NEXT GENERATION AIR-SUPERIORITY FIGHTER?”, school of advanced airpower studies @ Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.
Air superiority has been an enduring prerequisite to military victory during conflicts in the twenty
AND
superiority will continue to be an essential military mission for the foreseeable future.

**5. Multipolarity makes wars inevitable – competition for status can’t be regulated**
William Wohlforth, Prof at Dartmouth, 1-1-2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics, Volume 61, Number 1.
The evidence suggests that narrow and asymmetrical capabilities gaps foster status competition even among states
AND
for major power war could once again form the backdrop of world politics.

**6. Heg solves nuclear war – ensures economic stability and democratic pe**ace
Bradley Thayer, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, 2006, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.
Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current
AND
, American primacy remains humanity's only practical hope of solving the world's ills. 

----
**Contention 4 is DARPA**
----
**1. DARPA’S RESEARCH FOCUS PROVES THEY CAN MEET ANY VISION**
Richard Van Atta, Senior Research Analyst at the Institute for Defense Analyses focusing on the technological needs and interests of the United States, 2008, “Fifty years of Innovation
And Discovery”, DARPA, http://www.darpa.mil/WorkArea/DownloadAsset.aspx?id=2553
An example of this research focus is DARPA’s championing of stealth. A radical and
AND
weapon” capability – exactly what DARPA and top DoD leadership had envisioned.

**2. DARPA is exempt from budgets cuts and political pressures**
Noah Shachtman is a editor, a nonresident fellow at the Brookings Institution, 2-14-12, Darpa Dodges Obama Budget Death Ray, Keeps Its $2.8 Billion, Wired, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/02/darpa-budget-death-ray/?utm_source=Contextly&utm_medium=RelatedLinks&utm_campaign=Previous
For most of the U.S. military’s far-flung community of scientists
AND
” that’s suddenly seeing some of its dormant factories spring back to life.

**3. New technological breakthroughs make development of advanced airship transportation capacity imminently feasible**
Orbital Vector, 11-2-2010, “Advanced Airships,” http://orbitalvector.com/Aircraft/Airships/ADVANCED%20AIRSHIPS.htm
A number of societal trends and emerging technologies seem to be converging toward the eventual
AND
-air vessels enjoy, while giving up none of an airship’s advantages.


===Carbon Capture & Sequestration=== 

*****CITES COMING SOON*****

=Negative= 
==**Whitman**== 
===**Round 2 v. Centennial (ID) - NIB**=== 
1NC: T - National Infrastructure Bank, Vagueness Theory, Spending DA, Auto Tradeoff DA, Case
2NC: T, Vagueness, Auto DA
1NR: Spending, Case
2NR: Vagueness

===Round 4 v. Juan Diego - Defense Access Roads=== 
1NC: T =/= Military, Heidegger, XO, Fiscal Cliff, Inherency
2NC: XO, T=/= Milt, Heidegger
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Inherency
2NR: Heidegger

===**Round 6 v. Ashland - VMT**=== 
1NC: T- Capital Expenditure, T - Vehicles, XO, Prez Powers, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NC: T, XO, Prez Powers
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR: T, Fiscal Cliff, Case

===**Octas v. St. George's - HSR**=== 
1NC: T - Substantial, Spending DA, Heidegger, Case
2NC: T, Heidegger
1NR: Spending, Case
2NR: Spending, Case



==Tahoma== 
===Round 2 v. Interlake - Gas Tax=== 
1NC: T - Infrastructure, Heidegger, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NC: T, Heidegger
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR: Fiscal Cliff

===Round 3 v. Ballard - Dam Removal=== 
1NC: Heidegger, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NC: Heidegger
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR: Heidegger



==Auburn-Riverside== 
===Round 2 vs. Gig Harbor - Mass Transit (Poverty)=== 
1NC: T - Vehicles, States CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NC: States CP, Case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: States CP, Fiscal Cliff

===Round 3 vs. Interlake - HSR=== 
1NC: Iron Fertilization CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case (Oil, Economy, Warming, Solvency)
2NC: CP, Warming, Oil, Solvency
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Econ
2NR: CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case D

===Round 5 vs. Interlake - NextGen=== 
1NC: Iron Fertilization CP, Fiscal Cliff, Auto Tradeoff, Case
2NC: CP, Auto, Case,
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR: Inherency dbl bind, CP, Auto, Fiscal Cliff

===Round 6 (Hidden Sems) vs. Vashon - Ableism=== 
1NC: J, Framework, Solvency, Case
2NC: Framework, Solvency
1NR: J, Case
2NR: J, Framework, Solvency



==UPS== 
===Round 2 vs. Ingraham - Inland Waterways=== 
1NC: T - Vagueness, Cuban Embargo CP, Debt Ceiling, Case
2NC: T - Vagueness, Cuban Embargo CP, Case
1NR: Debt Ceiling, Case
2NR: Cuban Embargo CP, Debt Ceiling, Case

===Round 4 vs. Ingraham - Inland Waterways=== 
Same as Above
2NR: All + Vagueness

===Round 6 vs. Gig Harbor - Mass Transit=== 
1NC: Empire K, Framework, States CP, Debt Ceiling, Case
2NC: Framework, Empire K, States CP
1NR: Debt Ceiling, Case
2NR: Framework, Empire K