[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==Neolib 1AC== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has derailed any funding for a space shuttle replacement—the result is outsourcing to the companies to design and operate launch vehicles. This outsourcing is destined to fail; only a public based initiative is a feasible solution.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Young 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – former Director of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and President and Chief Operating Officer of Martin Marietta (A. Thomas, TESTIMONY TO THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY May 26, 2010[[http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/052610_Young.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My judgment is that implementation of the proposed human spaceflight … that road too many times with the same unsuccessful result.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The privatization of the constellation program is the result of the logic of neoliberalism, which favors blind allegiance to the market, and privatization of nearly all governmental functions.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">R. Thomas </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Buffenbarger</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2010</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, International President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Dear Mr. President,” [[http://thesent.nl/jQ30I9]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At a time when the U.S. economy in mired in the worst … innovative space technologies vital to future economic and national security.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This privatization of the space program is not an isolated instance, but a manifestation of the ideology of neoliberalism that seeks to eradicate social spending and the public sphere in order to achieve unrestrained capitalism. This produces a new mode of warfare that necessitates continuous disaster, in the name of achieving profit, and economic expansion.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Klein 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 11-20, DS)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Friedman's Chicago School movement has been conquering territory around the … companies and their sovereignty to U.S. military bases and green zones.</span>


Neoliberal economic development has been the motivating factor in the spread of terrorism, militarization, wars, structural violence, and ecological destruction. Only a challenge to the inequalities created by neoliberalism can create a sustainable framework for peace.

**Szentes 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [22 April 2008, Tamás Szentes is a Professor Emeritus at the Corvinus University of Budapest (the former Karl Marx University), and member of the </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hungarian Academy of Sciences, “Globalisation and prospects of the world society”, [[http://www.eadi.org/fileadmin/Documents/Events/exco/Glob.___prospects_-_jav..pdf]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*gender modified</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) It’ s a common place that human society can survive …</span>__and also due to irreversible changes in natural environment.__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberalism doesn’t just authorize war it creates a new mode of biopolitics based upon the economic viability of populations. This demarcating of populations based upon a politics of disposability reduces all otherized populations into a state of bare life—in which the worst manifestations of the violence 20th century become the norm.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The mutually determining forces of every deepening inequality and an … ‘bare life’ is clearly visible in all of these examples.</span>


**<span class="Underline">Daniel and I demand that the United States federal government substantially increase funding for the Constellation program. </span>**

Solvency
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The privatization of the constellation program will inevitably set the stage for space wars, and will be used as a method to reassert neoliberal hegemony over the whole of life. In the face of this privatization, the plan is a method of using space to better the whole of humanity, rather than the elites of the military industrial complex.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dickens 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – teaches at the universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, 1 November 2010, Monthly Review, [[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]], DS)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Society is increasingly humanizing the cosmos. Satellites have for some … be part of the cosmos without colonizing, owning, or conquering it.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conceive of our demand as an occupation of the public debate space in order to challenge the economic calculus of neoliberalism. This creates a rallying point for a movement of movements opposed to neoliberalism, in which all expendable and disposable populations occupy public space, using the plan as a method to challenge biopolitical divisions, and neoliberal rationality to demonstrate our collective vulnerability.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pinkus and Giorgi 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> -- *professor of Italian, French, and comparative literature at USC Assistant Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at USC (Karen, Gabriel, “Zones of Exception: Biopolitical territories in the Neoliberal Era,” Muse, DS)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The piquetero movement originating in Argentina during the ’90s, is … which neoliberalism turns “life” into “human life,” and vice versa.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our demand provides a focal point that allows a larger movement resistant to neoliberalism to coalesce.</span>**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Zizek, 98**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – PhD, Professor of Philosophy at The European Graduate School</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Slavoj, Journal of Political Ideologies, “For a Leftist Appropriation of the European Legacy,”[[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-leftist.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Are we then condemned to the …is thus effectively the end of politics proper.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A failure to challenge the rationales of neoliberalism guarantees a totalitarian politics in which any atrocity against devalued lives, racialized others, and inferior genders is normalized as the natural functioning of the socio-economic order.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Foucault is acutely aware that the impoverishment of the social … conception of the political is, at the very least, complicit. (Martin, 2007, p. 141)</span>


<span class="Underline">Neoliberal economic models are flawed – recent financial crisis proves that their assumption everyone behaves rationally makes collapse inevitable</span>

<span class="Underline">**Stiglitz, 10** -- 2001 Nobel Memorial Prize in economics, is University Professor at Columbia University (Joseph, 8/19/10, “Needed: a new economic paradigm”, Financial Times, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/d5108f90-abc2-11df-9f02-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1dc4Z5vwE)</span>



<span class="Underline">The blame game continues over who is responsible …it is the stability and prosperity of our economies.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neoliberalism is different from capitalism. </span>
**__Klein 7__** – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 24-5, DS)

__But what of the contemporary crusade to liberate …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in their hands and begin their work of remaking the world. </span>

==2AC Case Cards== 
Plan leads to coop.
**__Newton and Griffin ’11__**– *director for Space Policy in the Center for System Studies at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, former strategist at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, AND **physicist & space engineer, former Administrator of NASA, eminent scholar and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Alabama in Huntsville (Elizabeth and Michael, Space Policy, “United States space policy and international partnership” ScienceDirect)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Will the USA have more influence on the world stage? … Magical thinking might make for good politics, but it makes poor policy.</span>
==AT FW== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resolved is to reduce through mental analysis </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Random House Unabridged Dictionary 2006</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved) </span>
<span style="background-color: lime;">Resolve</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">: 1.To come to a definite or earnest decision … </span><span style="background-color: lime;"> mental analysis</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (often fol. by into).</span>

The context of the resolution is determined before the colon
Peck 96 (U of Ottawa; http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/colon.html)
<span style="background-color: yellow;">The colon focuses </span><span class="underline">the reader’s attention </span>on what to follow<span style="font-size: 7pt;">…</span><span class="underline">somehow completes the introductory idea.</span>


State focus frameworks limits the agency of debaters. This limit on the debate space prevents change and turns their education net benefits.
**__Bleiker 2000__** – Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland (Roland, Popular Dissent, Human Agency, and Global Politics. Cambridge University Press, p. 8, DS)

__To expand the scope of international theory … with a legitimate rationale for violent encounters__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.22 </span>

Fetishizing instrumental education kills resistance to neoliberal ideology.
**__Giroux 11__** (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 28 February 2011, “Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy”, [[http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042]], DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, not only have academic jobs been disappearing, …</span> __itself in market terms or simply perish.__

==AT Ozone DA== 


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">launches inev China</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Schroeder 11</span>
Stan Schroeder, China Daily Contributor, 4-26-2011, “China To Launch Its Own Space Station by 2020,” Mashable, http://mashable.com/2011/04/26/china-space-station-2020/
China plans to launch a **…**technology than a single-module space lab.”

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. The ozone layer is depleting at record levels</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 11</span>—award-winning website that is one of the Internet’s most popular science news sites, used by students, researchers, healthcare professionals, government agencies, and educators
(“Record Depletion of Arctic Ozone Layer Causing Increased UV Radiation in Scandinavia,” April 5th,
[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/04/110405102202.htm]])

__Over the past few days ozone-depleted …will be necessary on those days, especially for children,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rex recommends.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">4. Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA 8</span>
NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html
Q. <span class="Underline">Is it true that launching the Space Shuttle …within the initial plume, </span>its global impact would be inconsequential.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">5. Top scholars agree that there is little risk to the ozone</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ross and Zittel 7 – Both PhDs</span>
Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2007, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html
RISO represents but one component of ongoing … industry increases the scientific return on investment for all interested parties.
==AT Fronteir K== 
Perm do both.
**The permutation solves—the concept of the frontier can never be rejected but we can reshape it to encourage cultural harmony and intellectual expansion**
**BILLINGS 1997**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Linda Billings is a doctoral student in the Department of Communication Studies, Indiana University, “Frontier Days in Space: Are They Over?” Space Policy, August)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Patricia Nelson </span>__Limerick has recommended … are more than worthy goals of future space exploration efforts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


Frontier mythology won’t automatically apply to space—each frontier is unique and modern ideas distort the history of frontier expansion
**GRAY 1999**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (D.M., “Space as a frontier - the role of human motivation,” Space Policy, August)</span>

__Frontiers have the reputation for … a unique set of values, ideals and mind-sets__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



==AT China Brain Drain== 

**Neoliberalization leads to widespread instability in China—single greatest factor that makes the impact inevitable.**
**So 10- Professor at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alvin Y. So, “Globalization and China: From Neoliberal Capitalism to State Developmentalism in East Asia” in “Globalization in the 21st Century: Labor, Capital, and the State on a World Scale”, pg 140-141, IWren)</span>

__In response to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the above </span>__neoliberal policies, … to China’s program of economic liberalization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Liew 2001; Nonini 2008). </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conjunctive Fallacy. It justifies a presumption against specific scenarios </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yudkowsky ‘6</span> Research Fellow at the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks” Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan CirkovicDraft of August 31, 2006. Eliezer Yudkowsky(yudkowsky@singinst.org)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conjunction fallacy similarly applies to futurological forecasts. … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> emergency-response capabilities that could respond to any disaster.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Schneier 2005.)</span>

==AT Withdraw from IMF/WTO/World Bank and Ban space privatization== 

Focus on the process of the plan over the goal caters to neoliberal elites by focusing on superficial political processes. This is what allows alienation and exclusion to occur.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Van Oenen 6</span>__</span> -- Associate Professor of Philosophy at the Faculty of Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam in The Netherlands (Gijs, “A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life” Theory and Event, Project Muse, DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although interpassivity was first situated in the domain of the arts…</span><span class="Underline"> while also in some important sense entailing a loss</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

=Round 2 - Neg v. Carollton UV - SPS w/Poverty Ethics & Warming= 
==1NC – T Humz== 

**A. Interpretation - Exploration means to expand staffed missions into space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale Many … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**So does development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

__Eric Westling is a____science writer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>**__[staffed] commercial projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




==1NC – Heg Good K== 
This intellectual arrogance will get us killed – the debating and whining needs to end so we can face realistic threats
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victor Davis </span>**__Hanson__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow … /3050721.html, Accessed Online: 09/11/2008. //wku-tjs//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one were to collate … </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">, even as they pass away</span>__</span>.//



//The failure to embrace violent solutions guarantees foreign aggression from Iran and other violent regimes – their criticism is an open invitation to a new generation of Hitlers//
//Thomas **__Sowell__**, Senior Fellow at … .php3, Accessed Online: 09/11/2008.// wku-tjs

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">"Moral paralysis"</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a term … </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">we morally paralyzed, perhaps fatally?</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The result is wars around globe</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Peter </span>**__Rosen__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kaneb Professor … / is_2003_Spring/ai_99377575 Accessed Online: 09/11/2008. //wku-tjs//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for imperial rule over … </span>are that much more attractive.//



//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The alternative is to vote negative to align yourself with American hegemony.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The only tangible threat to US primacy is isolationism – rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span>**__Kristol__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Visiting Professor in … ?fa=view&id=276, Accessed Online: 09/11/2008. </span>//wku-tjs
BENEVOLENT HEGEMONYTWENTY YEARS later, <span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">it </span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__</span>military supremacy and moral confidence.
===2NC O/V=== 
<span class="reduce2">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">U.S. leadership precludes international hostility and violence, it’s the solution to all modern forms of instability</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay </span>**__Khalilzad__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, U.S. Ambassador to the … GRAND STRATEGY; Vol. 18, No. 2; Pg. 84. //wku-tjs</span>

<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Under the third option, the </span>____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">a multipolar balance of power system.</span>


===Imperialism Good—Space=== 



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Turn: Space, Spread of American values is key to get off the rock and avoid inevitable extinction</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kort </span>**__Patterson__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, President of Overall Technology Inc., “The 4th of July”, 19</span>**__94__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://130.94.161.3/KortExplores/articles/files/4july1.php, Accessed Online: 03/21/2008. //wku-tjs</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It seems obvious to me that…it currently seeks to become.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And, We must go to space now to avoid an otherwise inevitable extinction </span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ad Astra ’95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July/August, p. 43]</span>



Beyond the planetary shore lies…<span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9pt;">the sooner the better</span>__</span>.



===Imperialism Good—Terror=== 



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Turn: Terrorism, The fight against terrorism is an ideological battle wedded in conflicting values</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gerhard </span><span class="UnunderlinedTextChar">**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Hoffstaeder</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD Anthropologist, “The ‘West’ – conceptualization of an idea”, January 20, 20</span><span class="UnunderlinedTextChar">**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">03</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. http://stirling.ukc.ac.uk:16080/Anthropologists/gmh1/docs/West.pdf, Accessed Online: 03/21/2008. //wku-tjs//</span>


//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Spengler’s pessimistic view on…</span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9pt;">in line with the West</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//



//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And, Terrorism promises the end of civilization</span>//


//ALEXANDER__<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Dir. Inter-University Center for Terrorism) </span>__2000 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Yonah, “Terrorism in the 21st Century”, Depaul Business Law Journal, p. LN. </span>//wku-tjs]


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More specifically, </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">present</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9pt;">-day terrorists</span>____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">…</span>____<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 9pt;">the survival of civilization itself</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===Intellectual Indict=== 

<span class="Underline">**Be skeptical of their authors—they have a vested interest in downplaying the need for military force.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sowell 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, graduated from Harvard and received doctorate at UChicago in economics, pretty much a total badass, “Intellectuals and Society”, loc 5443-58, kindle, IWren)</span>

Intellectuals have every incentive to … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">point where it becomes dangerous.</span>

===IL/A2: Global Movements Solve=== 

<span class="Underline">**National pride is recognition that well-being is contingent on your government, not global obligation—failure to embrace this collapses civilization itself.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sowell 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, Ph.D., Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, graduated from Harvard and received doctorate at UChicago in economics, pretty much a total badass, “Intellectuals and Society”, loc 5280-99, kindle, IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">Despite a tendency in some intellectual … </span>future of the Western world.
==1NC - Cap== 

The exploration and development of space is smoke screen for the expansion of capitalism, a short-term solution to economic and societal crisis on Earth. The militarization of space leading to space wars over resources and the development of markets in the cosmos is an inevitable consequence of the aff.
**__Dickens 10__** -- teaches at the Universities … -humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instead of indulging in over-… </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">make their own cosmic “fixes.”</span>

**Resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible.**
**Zizek and Daly 2k4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek it is imperative … </span>__in an otherwise sound matrix.__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thus our alternative is an unconditional commitment to the Communist Hypothesis. Every ethical decision – up to the ballot itself – should be infused with all of the significance of humanity’s destiny. The question regarding the plan is “does it confirm or contradict the communist hypothesis.” If we win a link argument, you should reject the affirmative because they reduce life to a barbaric ratrace and stand opposed to universal emancipation. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alain </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Badiou</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former Chair of … supérieure, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [The Meaning of Sarkozy, pp. 97-103] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I would like to situate … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the history of this hypothesis</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Turns Aff=== 

Space war leads to debris
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">William 10 – MS in Physics</span>
Lynda Williams, M.S. in Physics and a physics faculty member at Santa Rose Junior College, Irrational Dreams of Space Colonization”, Spring 2010, Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice, 22.1, Spring, pg 7

Since the space race began 50 years ago with the launch of Sputnik, … become too trashed for launches to take place without risk of destruction.

===<span class="Underline">2NC Ethics</span>=== 

Capitalism precludes ethics because it preferences economic valuation to any other method of judging the world
**Morgareidge**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prof of Philosophy at Lewis & Clark College </span>**1998**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Clayton Why Capitalism is Evil 08/22 http://www.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html</span>

Now none of these philosophers are naive: none of them thinks that sympathy, love, or caring determines all, or even most, human behavior. … Only when the end of capitalism is on the table will ethics have a seat at the table.
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: Reform</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">THE POLITICS OF COMMUNISM IS INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE STATE. ANY SUCH ATTEMPT INEVITABLY LEADS TO THE CORRUPTION OF REVOLUTIONARY POLITICS. This answers their Bradley evidence. </span>
**__Balso__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Poetry at the European Graduate School, </span>**__10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Judith, “The Idea of Communism,” edited by Slavoj Zizek and Costas Douzinas, pgs 25-26, AU)</span>

Politics proceeds on its own: I want to unpack that statement -with reference to several points. … What does facing up to war in this new mode of existence entail, when no revolution can any longer hope to conjure war away, and when no State desires peace any longer?
==1NC – China DA== 

**China is developing SPS now and it’s key to their space leadership—the plan challenges that—STAR THIS CARD**

**Stone October 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2011, Christopher Stone, (B.A., M.A.) is a space policy analyst and strategist near Washington DC., “National Space Strategy: proactive or reactive?”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1938/1]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout its history, America has … </span>__space exploration and “colonial expansion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” </span>


**Chinese space leadership is key to CCP stability – plan causes nationalist up-rise**
**Johnson-Freese 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese Chair, Department of National Security Studies, Naval War College “Space Wei Qi: The Launch of Shenzhou V” http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/ba695c64-2c13-4913-a6f5-9ebcec9aa311/Space-Wei-Qi--The-Launch-of-Shenzhou-V---Johnson-F /)</span>

__China faces Herculean challenges on a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">role model for China’s youth. </span>

**That causes increased Chinese brinkmanship—that could result in war in the South China Sea**
**Medcalf 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/all-at-sea-over-beijing-brinksmanship/story-e6frg6ux-1226082315305.%20June%2027|http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/all-at-sea-over-beijing-brinksmanship/story-e6frg6ux-1226082315305. June 27]], 2011. Rory Medcalf directs the international security program at the Lowy Institute. This article is based on a major Lowy-MacArthur Foundation paper to be released tomorrow. “All at Sea Over China Brinkmanship.”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A MAN-MADE tempest is … a hearing once the shooting starts. </span>

**Extinction**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a … see the destruction of civilization.</span>


==1NC – LENR CP== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: the United States federal government should provide necessary resources for expanded research and development of Low Energy Nuclear Reactor technology at the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center and distribute it. </span>
**Recent experiments at SPAWAR prove LENR works – they are already engaged but lack further funding.**
**Daily Tech – 7** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“NAVY EXPERIMENT GIVES BOOST TO COLD FUSION”, http://prorev.com/coldfusion.htm)</span>

<span class="HighlightedTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Navy scientists</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">claim that slices … </span><span class="HighlightedTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">additional research in the field.</span>__</span>

**New tests show that LENR are practical and give unlimited cheap energy**
**Blakeslee 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Thomas, degree from Cal Tech, respected text book author, 3/31/11, “Low Energy Nuclear Reactions: 2.5 Million Watt-hours from a Nickel?”, [[http://www.renewableenergyworld.com/rea/blog/post/2011/04/low-energy-nuclear-reactions-2-5-million-watt-hours-from-a-nickel]], MH)</span>

__Now, from Italy, comes the …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">world into a cleaner, safer place. </span>


==Energy== 
**Energy consumption in developing countries increasing in the status quo**
**Birdsall and Subramanian 9** – *Founder of the Center for Global Development AND **Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Development**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nancy and Arvind, “Energy Needs and Efficiency, not Emissions: Re-framing the Climate Change Narrative,” [[http://www.cgdev.org/files/1423191_file_Energy_Needs_and_Efficiency_not_Emissions_FINAL.pdf]], dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, our empirical analysis covering … ” have been less fully met.</span>**


Can’t solve—infrastructure stinks
Africa Renewal 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – The Africa Renewal information programme, produced by the Africa Section of the United Nations Department of Public Information, provides up-to-date information and analysis of the major economic and development challenges facing Africa today., Vol.22#3 (October 2008), page 8 Powering up Africa’s economies Regional initiatives can help cover deficits By Mary Kimani http://www.un.org/ecosocdev/geninfo/afrec/vol22no3/223-powering-up-africas-economies.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If connection rates are so … </span>__grid,”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. Babu told Africa Renewal. </span>
===2NC Inherency=== 


**A. is India**
**Bloomberg 4/28/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">India’s Power Grid Bids for Africa Projects to Expand Business April 28, 2011, 7:05 AM EDT [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-04-28/india-s-power-grid-bids-for-africa-projects-to-expand-business.html]]</span>

__Power Grid Corp. of India__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … in a secondary issue in November. </span>

**B. Germany**
**UPI 7/15/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Energy Resources Merkel seeks renewables boost in Africa Published: July 15, 2011 at 6:27 AM Read more: http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2011/07/15/Merkel-seeks-renewables-boost-in-Africa/UPI-66971310725620/#ixzz1SBYnhu3T \</span>

__Germany is seeking to bolster … each other economically on energy.__

**C. England**
**Telegraph 7/15/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Aid money to build solar panels and wind turbines in Africa” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/environment/climatechange/8143697/Aid-money-to-build-solar-panels-and-wind-turbines-in-Africa.html</span>

__The British tax payer is … funds towards ‘green’ development projects.__

===2NC Solvency=== 

**even if the grid expands, the management fails—no solvency**

**Africa Renewal 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – The Africa Renewal information programme, produced by the Africa Section of the United Nations Department of Public Information, provides up-to-date information and analysis of the major economic and development challenges facing Africa today., Vol.22#3 (October 2008), page 8 Powering up Africa’s economies Regional initiatives can help cover deficits By Mary Kimani http://www.un.org/ecosocdev/geninfo/afrec/vol22no3/223-powering-up-africas-economies.html</span>

__Although the lack of funds … give contracts and reward cronies.”__

==Warming== 

**It`s natural**
**BELL 11-3-2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Prof at U Houston, http://www.forbes.com/2010/11/02/global-warming-climate-change-al-gore-opinions-columnists-larry-bell.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yes, there is no doubt … Napoleon's, a frigid retreat from Russia (1812).</span>

**Too late to stop**
**CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)</span>
__New research indicates the impact … scenarios beginning in 2010__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and in 2100.</span>

**No extinction**
**Idso, Idso and Idso 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sherwood, Craig and Keith, Keith, Vice Pres. Ctr Study CO2 and Global Change, Ph.D. in Botany @ ASU, won several top awards while instructing students in biological and botanical laboratories and lectures at ASU, and Craig, Chrmn Brd of Ctr for Study CO2 & Global Change, Ph.D. in Geog. ASU, “The Spector of Species Extinction: Will Global Warming Decimate Earth’s Biosphere?”, Marshal Institute, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/150.pdf//umich-mp)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Of the twenty-four Tier</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 1 (T1) </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… pertinent actually contradicts the hypothesis. </span>__

**They cause faster warming – because large emission reductions remove sulfate aerosols which cool the Earth**
**Lovelock ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Consultant of NASA, former president of the Marine Biological Association, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of Green Templeton College, Oxford (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 55-56</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2004, two IPCC contributors, Peter … and are damned whatever we do."</span>

**Sulfur offsets carbon dioxide solves warming**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[Documents%20and%20Settings/user/My%20Documents/Downloads/Bryan%20Walsh%20staffwriter%20July%205,%202011%20Has%20“China%20Sky”%20Helped%20slow%20global%20Warming|Bryan **Walsh** staffwriter July 5, **2011** Has “China Sky” Helped slow global Warming? http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2011/07/05/has-china-sky-helped-slow-global-warming/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As it turns out, however, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in coal-fired power plants.</span>
===2NC Ext: Natural=== 

**First is solar variation—star this ev**
**WOJICK 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, President of Climatechange.org, Electricity Daily, January 10)</span>

__U.S. climate change research__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> policy </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">policy hangs in the balance.</span>

=Round 3= 
Read the neolib aff same 1AC

==Case Cards== 

Neoliberal education is bad.
**__Giroux 11__** (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 28 February 2011, “Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy”, [[http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042]], DS)

Meanwhile, not only have academic jobs been disappearing, … justify itself in market terms or simply perish.
==AT Jackson Vanik== 
Functional ban already happened.
Ivanov 4-27, “Magnitsky for Jackson-Vanik: A fair trade?”, http://rbth.ru/articles/2012/04/27/magnitsky_for_jackson-vanik_a_fair_trade_15417.html

Expressing concerns that the adoption …” were so ambiguous that it would set a bad precedent for how the United States deals with human rights cases around the world.

Won’t pass – election year politics
**__Butler 3/27__**/12 (Desmond, Associated Press, “US Trade Upgrade May Worsen Relations With Russia”) [[http://www.ajc.com/news/nation-world/us-trade-upgrade-may-1399234.html]]
But it's a delicate matter in an election year. … nuclear arms treaty with Russia.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conjunctive Fallacy justifies a presumption against specific scenarios </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yudkowsky ‘6</span> Research Fellow at the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks” Forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, eds. Nick Bostrom and Milan CirkovicDraft of August 31, 2006. Eliezer Yudkowsky([[mailto:yudkowsky@singinst.org|yudkowsky@singinst.org]])

The conjunction fallacy similarly applies to futurological forecasts. … the U.S. government was guarding specific domestic targets against "movie-plot scenarios" of terrorism, at the cost of taking away resources from emergency-response capabilities that could respond to any disaster. (Schneier 2005.)

**The political spectacle directly trades off with personal agency—the more we engage in it the less we are motivated to effectuate actual structural change**
**Edelman 88**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1988, Murray Edelman, PhD in Political Science from the University of Illinois, former professor at the University of Wisconson-Madison, “Constructing the Political Spectacle”, pg 35-36, IWren) </span>

On occasion news reports and personal experiences converge. …, it discourages resistance to immanent conditions and it rationalizes acceptance of the world as it is.

Winners win—generates capital and wrecks the opposition.
**Daily Kos, 11** (“On Done Deals, Or, Sometimes Losing Is How You Win” 2011, google)
Right off the bat, you might be surprised how often you can win, …and then voting for Jack Box for President 2012 as a way of expressing our frustration.

Political capital doesn’t spill over—measures of presidential power or credibility don’t have any effect it’s presidential agenda.
<span class="Underline">**Dickinson 9** -- (Matthew, “Sotomayor and Presidential Power,” 5/6 </span>[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]], DS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is of more interest to me, however, … </span><span class="Underline">His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. </span>

==James Webb Trade Off== 

Normal means is supplemental funding --- not internal trade-offs
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Griffin 7</span> (Michael, Administrator – NASA, “Earth Science Isn’t Slipping at NASA”, Washington Post, 5-22, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/05/21/AR2007052101466.html]]</span>)

In their May 10 op-ed, "The Planet NASA Needs to Explore," …, lest our nation's leadership on this new frontier slip away.

Plan increases funding for Earth Science.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Landis 95 (</span>Geoffrey, NASA John Glenn Research Center, “Footsteps to Mars: An Incremental Approach to Mars Exploration”, Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, 48, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://legislative.nasa.gov/PL%20111-267.pdf|http://www.geoffreylandis.com/Footsteps .pdf]]</span>)

Recently there has been an alarming tendency … that nothing, neither Mars nor other programs, will be accomplished.


There intenral link evidence concludes it will happen at the LHC.

Focus on specific scenarios creates an impoverished account of violence that makes resistance impossible. Instead of focus on specific crisis, evaluate systemic violence first.
**__Cuomo, 96__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris Cuomo, Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30)</span>

In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways in which war is currently best seen not as an event but as a presence (Schott 1995). … These approaches also leave unquestioned tendencies to suspend or distort moral judgement in the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism.

==AT Psychoanalysis Case Turn== 

**Our political strategy is more subversive because it makes demands on the system that the system expects will never be made.**
**Zizek, 98** – Professor of Philosophy at Institute of Social Sciences at University of Ljubljana
(Slavoj, Law and the Postmodern Mind, “Why Does the Law need an Obscene Supplement?” Pg 91-94)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__the point__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> about inherent transgression </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that makes them "too good" for the banality of men's rights. </span>

Their politics produces conservative totalitarianism.
**__Robinson and Tormey, 2004__** [Andrew and Simon, University of Nottingham “Zizek is Not a Radical”, Eleven, homepage.ntlworld.com/simon.tormey/articles/Zizeknotradical.pdf]

Furthermore, despite Zizek’s emphasis on politics, … to examine how the concept operates when applied to a concrete political topic.
=Round 4 - neg v dwss= 
==Inherency== 
**US already has worldwide weather modification and Air Force agrees it’s sufficient—specifically solves your readiness and ionosphere internals**
**Chossudovsky 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [27 September 2004, Michel Chossudovsky, PhD from UNC professor of economics (emeritus) at the University of Ottawa, “The Ultimate Weapon of Mass Destruction: "Owning the Weather" for Military Use”, [[http://globalresearch.ca/PrintArticle.php?articleId=319]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>__significant expansion in …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">its interests, at various levels </span>

**Their authors underestimate the project—secrecy means it’s more effective than they claim**
**Burks 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2 August 2010, Fred Burks, former state department official and professional investigator, “HAARP: Secret Weapon Used For Weather Modification, Electromagnetic Warfare”, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=20407]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For those who still doubt … </span>__like those involved with HAARP.__

==Toussaint Planet 1NC== 

**We offer you this passage from Nalo Hopkinson’s novel “Midnight Robber”. In contrast to the 1AC’s tale of space-based technological “progress” and “development”—where the West follows the mythical arc of machinic development—we posit a story that centers __culture__ in its vision. We depict the future not as an Anglo-European frontier to be molded along similar lines of colonial domination, but as one in which the subjects of colonial domination themselves take stage in an attempt to radically alter the science fiction genre that radically alters our approach to space. We divorce technology from progress, space exploration from the West, and the entire project of astrofuturism from the privileged white context it was born in and continues to sustain**

**Jillana Enteen, in 2007, explains:**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[July 2007, Jillana Enteen, prof @ Northwestern and Associate Director and Director of Undergraduate Studies Gender Studies, PhD from Rutgers in cultural studies, “"On the Receiving End of the Colonization":' Nalo Hopkinson's 'Nansi Web”, in Science Fiction Studies, v 34 n 2, jstor, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This rather limited notion of cyberpunk … </span>__and accumulation, are their aims.__

**This passage stands as a check, a barrier to the otherwise unfettered representations of Western technology as the beacon of world progress. In contradistinction to the 1AC’s aspirations towards colonial exploration, “Midnight Robber” provincializes European universalism—showing that alternative formulations of power, knowledge, and technology can exist—that the local knowledges of the Caribbean matter just as much as the knowledge of Cambridge. Contemporary representations of “outer space” provide fertile ground on which to wage this epistemological struggle**

**Peter Redfield, in 2002, explains:**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[December 2002, Peter Redfield, professor at UNC, graduated Harvard, master’s and PHD @ UC Berkeley, “The Half-Life of Empire in Outer Space”, in Social Studies of Science, v 32 n 5/6, jstor, IWren] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To establish the difficulty of such an…in dreams of space travel. </span>

=Round 5= 

==1NC – T Increase== 

**Interpretation – increase is a verb, Dictionary.com**

**in·crease**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">   [v. in-krees; n. in-krees] , -creased, -creas·ing, noun </span>**verb**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (used with object) 1. </span>**to make greater**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as in number, size, strength, or quality; augment; add to: to increase taxes. </span>


==1NC – Euro K== 

**The affirmative’s knowledge is not innocent—it is based in a milito-strategic Western institutional framework that guarantees the only discourses considered are those that justify the endless destruction of the Other**

<span class="Underline">**Chow 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rey Chow, PhD and Master’s in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University, Professor of Literature at Duke University, formerly professor at Brown and UC Irvine, “The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work”, kindle, loc 525-541, IWren) </span>

<span class="Underline">Often </span>under<span class="Underline"> the modest and </span>… <span class="Underline">problem of the vanishing object.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"55</span>

<span class="Underline">**This hierarchal regime is exemplified by the modern nuclear cycle—First World institutions actively legitimize the extermination of the periphery by codifying events like “nuclear war” and “nuclear testing” in manners that obscure more insidious eradicatory intentions**</span>

**Kato 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Masahide, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze”, Alternatives, 18:3 [1993:Summer], pg. 347-349, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let us recall our earlier … Nations almost on a daily basis.</span>

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s Eurocentric relation to the indigenous and place ourselves as postcolonial intellectuals—using this position within the academy is key to transforming dominant Western representations that enable oppression—we must throw ourselves unrestrained into a politics that acknowledges the intrinsic value of indigenous cultures and fights without promise of success to preserve it**

**Banerjee 00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Subhabrata Bobby Banerjee, Professor of Strategic Management and Director, Research at the International Graduate </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">School of Management, University of South Australia, PhD from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, “Whose land is it anyway? National interest, indigenous stakeholders, and colonial discourses”, in Organization & Environment, vol 13 iss 1, proquest, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> One approach is </span>__to … **are important to us.**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Jacqui Katona</span>

===2NC Perm Sequencing=== 
**links are a specific reason inclusion of the plan would fail—the alternative must sequence intrinsic appreciation before Western intellectuals can advance, only this can solve**
**Kanth 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2005, Rajani Kannepalli Kanth, visiting scholar at Harvard, Against Eurocentrism: A Transcendent Critique of Modernist Science, Society, and Morals, pg 5, IWren]</span>

__Not only then does any …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">sections) </span>__simply cannot be undertaken__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Remaining within the Western objective paradigm stymies insights gained from indigenous cultures—only a starting point located outside Western rational research can be truly emancipatory**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Bhawuk 8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dharm Bhawuk, Professor at the University of Hawaii, Ph. D. in Organizational Behavior & Human Resource Management from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Globalization and indigenous cultures: Homogenization or differentiation?”, in the International Journal of Intercultural Relations, vol 32 iss 4, sciencedirect, IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">Research has been generally dominated … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is considered appropriate to science. </span>

===2NC Epist First=== 
<span class="Underline">**Epistemology first—analyzing colonial knowledge flows is a pre-requisite to formulating political solutions—otherwise knowledge just becomes a political weapon**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Anderson 02**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Warwick, Professorial Research Fellow in the Department of History and the Center for Values, Ethics, and the Law in Medicine at the University of Sydney, PhD and Masters from UPenn, “Introduction: Postcolonial Technoscience”, in Social Studies of Science, vol 32 no 5/6, Dec 2002, IWren) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>postcolonial study<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of … </span><span class="Underline">, of science and technology studies.</span>

**Discourse shapes the way we frame problems and policies—this is a disad to their framework**

**Adams 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *Lecturer in Education and Program Director, Centre for Educational Studies, Univ. of Hull</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “From ‘ritual’ to ‘mindfulness’: policy and pedagogic positioning,” Discourse: Studies in the Cultural Politics of Education, January 2011, 32: 1, 57-69, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With such concerns, and many … </span>__said to exercise agentic action__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===2NC Epist Indicts=== 
**And, empiricism ignores the social context in which truths are created—turns their knowledge**

**Welshon 9 - Professor of Philosophy at University of Colorado**
(Rex, Professor of Philosophy at University of Colorado, "Saying Yes to Reality: Skepticism, Antirealism, and Perspectivism in Nietzsche's Epistemology," The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Issue 37, Spring, p. 32)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The perspectival nature of justification … </span>__be forgotten again and again__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**There positioning of knowledge ensures the exclusion of non western knowledges.**
**Ul-Haq and Westwood 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [March 2012, Shoaib Ul-Haq is a PhD student in the area of Strategy and Organization Theory at Lahore University of Management Sciences, Pakistan, Robert Westwood is Professor of Organization Studies at the University of Technology, Sydney, “The politics of knowledge, epistemological occlusion and Islamic management and organization knowledge”, in Organization, vol 19 n 2, sage, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any analysis of Islam in … and thus an epistemology (Sardar, 1991) </span>

<span class="Underline">Positivism is based upon unjustified assumptions and has been integral in promoting empire. </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wedeen 2007** – Lisa, Professor of Political … Social Science Research Council, June 14-15, 2007, DS)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The late Edward </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Said</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (1978) famously </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">… liberal politics, on the other. </span>

==1NC – Patent Law DA== 

**Expanding the space industry cripples patent law—creates a race to the bottom and turns the aff**

**Kleiman 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Matthew J Kleiman, Corporate Counsel at the Draper Laboratory in Cambridge, Mass Lecturer on Space Law at Boston University School of Law</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chair at ABA SciTech Space Law Committee, Law Degree from Duke, “Patent rights and flags of convenience in outer space”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1772/1]], IWren]</span>

__Flags of convenience are likely …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">associated with flags of convenience. </span>

**And, IP Law is the biggest internal link to US competition and trade leadership**

**Reuters 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [August 26, “US says protecting IP rights a top trade priority”, [[http://www.theglobalipcenter.com/news/us-says-protecting-ip-rights-top-trade-priority]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. officials on Monday welcomed </span>__a … enforcement of intellectual property rights.__

**US trade leadership key to curb hostile trade blocs and global conflict**

**Bergsten 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [September 27 1997, C. Fred Bergsten, Director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics & former Assistant Secretary for International Affairs at the Treasury Department, “Global Trade and American Politics”, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span>__American leadership has been …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">staying power in other respects.</span>

==1NC – Punctuality DA== 


<span class="Underline">**K2 v2l and communicative ability—turns their speech act and independent voter for lying—schedule represents an implicit agreement to show up**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wax No Date**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dustin Wax, “Punctuality Counts”, contributing editor and project manager at lifehack.org. He is also a freelance writer and university instructor in Las Vegas, NV, [[http://www.lifehack.org/articles/productivity/punctuality-counts.html]], IWren]</span>

Being punctual matters<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least </span><span class="Underline">… immediately to match those two up. </span>

===2NC Lying Bad=== 

**Promising to show up on time and then not is intentional deception, which is immoral and should be rejected.**
Mark C. **__Murphy__**, 19**__96__** [41 Am. J. Juris. 81]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bok's … </span>__affirm its agreement with Kant.__ <span class="Hyperlink6">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=06a87a29b6952f9bfd647f95fda3771b&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAk&_md5=fb417e0cf720ff1549cfe598dbc5ee69#n40#n40|40]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lying kills heg.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sartori 02</span>, Anne is an associate professor of political science at Northwestern University, Winter 2002, International Organization 56, 1, Winter 2002, pp. 122, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_organization/toc/ino56.1.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I demonstrate formally that </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">diplomacy … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">prepared to go to war. </span>
==1NC - CP== 


Text: The United States federal government should promote a cooperative legal framework stressing collaborative space use. The United States federal government should offer a bribe to any non-signatory nations for the purpose of dissuading space warfare, extend agreements with the European and Japanese space consortiums to conduct cargo resupply missions past 2016, and increase incentives for college students to pursue science, technology, engineering and math programs, offer corporate incentives for investing in the aerospace workforce.

**A cooperative framework solves.**

**Rendleman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James D Rendleman, USAF Colonel (retired), “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, TandF Online, IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By combining and supplementing the … </span>__-made threats or natural hazards.__

**And, bribery solves**

**Rendleman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James D Rendleman, USAF Colonel (retired), “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, TandF Online, IWren] </span>

__Deterrence by inducing adversary action … of compensation or even bribery.__

**Extending agreements solves the ISS. Their 1AC evidence.**
**Chaplain 3/28**/12 –Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office (Cristina T, “NASA: Significant Challenges Remain for Access, Use, and Sustainment of the International Space Station,” Government Accountability Office, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589668.pdf, rbw)

__The greatest challenge facing NASA …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">) of the 23 launches from 2017 through 2020.11</span>

<span class="Underline">**Workforce focus is key.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**AIAA, 2009**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Recruiting, Retaining, and Developing a World-Class Aerospace Workforce: An AIAA Information Paper”, March 18th, http://pdf.aiaa.org/downloads/publicpolicypositionpapers//Retaining%20Aero%20Workforce.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">Without a strong aerospace workforce, the … critical to the aerospace industry. </span>

==1NC Industrial Base== 

<span class="Underline">**New space contracts won’t protect aerospace**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric R. </span><span class="Underline">**Sterner ‘10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric R. Sterner is a fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute, held senior staff positions on the House Armed Services and Science committees, and served in the office of the secretary of defense and as associate deputy administrator for policy and planning at NASA. William B. Adkins is president of Adkins Strategies, held a senior staff position on the House Science Committee and served at the Naval Research Laboratory and National Reconnaissance Office.“R&D Can Revitalize the Space Industrial Base”2/22 [[http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=782]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For nearly 20 years, the United … </span>__industry; it only promotes stagnation.__

**industry strong now**
**Chesebro 6/16** – International Trade Specialist for Manufacturing and Services within the International Trade Administration (6/16/2011, Jonathan, “U.S. Aerospace Industry Goes Big at the 2011 Paris Air Show”, [[http://blog.trade.gov/2011/06/16/u-s-aerospace-industry-goes-big-at-the-2011-paris-air-show/]])

<span class="Underline">The U.S. </span>aerospace industry is internationally … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the more workers they need.</span>


==1NC ISS== 

**Biotech industry growing—new markets and increased research**
**Wall Street Journal January 25**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2012, “Biotechnology Industry on the Upswing -- Aeterna Zentaris and Elite Pharmaceuticals to Benefit”, [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/biotechnology-industry-on-the-upswing-aeterna-zentaris-and-elite-pharmaceuticals-to-benefit-2012-01-25?reflink=MW_news_stmp]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK, NY, Jan 25, 2012 (MARKETWIRE via … </span>__,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> GIA stated in a press release </span>

**Status quo regulation kills industry confidence—makes new research irrelevant**
**Mayleben January 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [9 January 2012, Jim Mayleben, president and CEO of Aastrom Biosciences, “Lack of Funding For Innovative Biotech Companies”, [[http://www.xconomy.com/detroit/2012/01/09/lack-of-funding-for-innovative-biotech-companies/]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most important issue facing … </span>__to address these problems successfully.__

**Foreign workers will steal biotech advances—kills industry competitiveness and makes bioweapons inevitable**
**ICAFIS 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [2003, Industrial College of the Armed Forces Industry Studies Seminar, “Industrial College of the Armed Forces Industry Studies 2003: Biotechnology”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA425466&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two issues surrounding … the U.S. Government and policy makers.</span>



=Round 6= 
==Contention One is Inevitable== 

**Stuff is inevitable—Fourteen Scenarios**

**Scenario One is Chinese Aerospace Rise**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Multiple factors make Chinese aerospace industry rise inevitable</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cliff, Ohlandt, and Yang, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, … specializing in Chinese security studies)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__it is difficult to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States in imposing restrictions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Strong Chinese aerospace sector is key to Chinese military modernization – that causes US-Sino regional conflict </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cliff, Ohlandt, and Yang, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roger, … specializing in Chinese security studies)</span>

<span class="Underline">China’s space capabilities have improved … own economic interests is unclear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**

**Landay 2000**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Top Administration Officials Warn Stakes for U.S. Are High in Asian Conflicts, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, Lexis</span>
Few if any experts think … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to the Commerce Department.</span>

**Scenario Two is Debris**

**Impacts inevitable – space debris traffic is increasing and most debris cannot be detected.** 

**David 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html) RA</span>

__"The traffic is increasing. … to the traffic in space."__

**Accumulation of debris has passed the point of no return.**

**David 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research associate with the Secure World Foundation, winner of the National Space Club Press Award</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, May 09, “Ugly Truth of Space Junk: Orbital Debris Problem to Triple by 2030”, http://www.space.com/11607-space-junk-rising-orbital-debris-levels-2030.html) RA</span>

__The concern over orbital debris …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to a few meters, Kaplan said.</span>

**space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—leading to all out nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 4(Jeffrey, Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, </span>[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … </span><span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nuclear forces to operate safely</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bostrom 2002</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick, PhD, Journal of … .nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span class="underline0"> </span>
<span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A much greater existential risk … </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Scenario Three is Ozone**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The ozone layer is depleting at record levels</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science Daily 11</span>—award-winning website … professionals, government agencies, and educators
(“Record Depletion of Arctic Ozone Layer Causing Increased UV Radiation in Scandinavia,” April 5th,
[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/04/110405102202.htm]])
Over the past few days <span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>, especially for children," Rex recommends.

**Extinction** 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly, 1990</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick D., J.D. from Harvard and … /vol1/summer/kelly.htm, asb]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My comments above are a suggestion … haven't done anything about them.</span>

**Scenario Four is Afghan Cargo Airline Oil Prices**

**High oil prices in the long term—we assume your warrants**

**Kaufmann et al 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (October, Robert Kaufmann, professor at Boston University, Pavlos Karadeloglou, works at the External Developments Division European Central Bank, and Filippo di Mauro, works at the External Developments Division European Central Bank, “WILL OIL PRICES DECLINE </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">OVER THE LONG RUN?”, [[http://www.ecb.int/pub/pdf/scpops/ecbocp98.pdf]], pg 4, IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of reasons … </span>**__90 range over the long term__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**High Oil Prices kill the Airline Industry** 

**Thisdell 11** (2/21/11, Dan Writer for Serious Aviation, Flight Global, “Oil Price Fueling Fear for Airlines” [[http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2011/02/21/353458/oil-price-fueling-fears-for-airlines.html]])
Vueling chief executive Alex Cruz … capacity growth and raise fares.


**Airlines key to Afghan recovery – collapse Spurs Terrorism**

**Air Transport 11** ( 4/11/11, Airlines that know their stuff, “Cargo Airlines key to rebuilding Afghanistan” [[http://www.arabianaerospace.aero/article.php?section=air-transport&article=cargo-airlines-key-to-rebuilding-afghanistan]]”
__Cargo airlines will play an …__ years as market demand dictates.

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**
**Morgan, 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)</span>

In a remarkable website on nuclear … blamed on the United States’’ [10].
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have, likewise, stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack, whether from terrorists or a nation state, it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East. Furthermore, the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia. China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere. Afterwards, for years to come, massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted to future generations in a nuclear winter that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well.</span>
And <span class="Underline">what many people fail … and suffering in a nuclear winter</span>.

**Scenario Five is Asteroids**

**An Asteroid collision is 100% certain and could occur at any time**

**VERSCHUUR 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, … </span>__that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into … comet heading in our direction. </span>

**Scenario Six is Red Giant**

**Death by a Red Giant is a __…__ – their evidence is hopelessly optimistic**  
**Cain 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Fraser Cain is the editor of Universe Today and host of Astronomy Cast podcast with Dr. Pamela L. Gay.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He studied engineering at the University of British Columbia, “Will Earth Survive When the Sun Becomes a Red Giant?,” January 31st, 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/12648/will-earth-survive-when-the-sun-becomes-a-red-giant/, Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Billions of years in the … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and it will spiral inward. </span>

**Scenario Seven is Warming**

**Too late to stop warming**
**CLICK GREEN 1-7-2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (““Unstoppable effects” of climate change will last for 1,000 years,” http://www.clickgreen.org.uk/opinion/opinion/121749-%E2%80%9Cunstoppable-effects%E2%80%9D-of-climate-change-will-last-for-1,000-years.html)</span>
__New research indicates the impact … scenarios beginning in 2010__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and in 2100.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The best estimates for global … social, cultural and political </span><span class="Underline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Scenario Eight is Venezuelan Economics**

**Socialism kills the Venezuelan economy**

**__Rahn ‘7__** Richard W. director general of … .washingtontimes.com/news/2007/jan/21/20070121-102603-4793r/

**__The Venezuelan economy will collapse, …__** to have their looting stopped.

**Makes ethnic violence and coercion inevitable**

**__Manwaring ‘5__** Max, MAX G. MANWARING holds … .army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf

**__President Chávez also understands that … of poverty, destabilization, and conflict__**.62

**Scenario Nine is Capitalism**

**Human nature causes endless capitalistic wars**

**Batra 7** – Rishee’s dad, professor of economics at SMU
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ravi, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Downfall of Capitalism and Communism: A New Study of History</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pg 50, dml)</span>

__Warfare is a perennial human activity, … of money growth and inflation.__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rishee’s dad is the smartest economist ever</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">FW Weekly 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Fort Worth Weekly, written by Kendall Anderson, a Minneapolis-based journalist who has written for Fort Worth Weekly and The Dallas Morning News., “Prophet of Boom (and Bust): Now will they listen to Ravi Batra?”, [[http://archive.fwweekly.com/content.asp?article=7369]], IWren)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The worst economic cycle in … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">political economy and social anthropology. </span>

**Scenario Ten is Iranian Pipeline Economics**

<span class="Underline">**Iran gets the pipeline inevitably—China will join if India backs down**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Blank 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (March 9, Dr. Stephen Blank is a professor at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, MA and PhD in History from UChicago, specialist in Eurasian energy and author of numerous books on the subject, “China hangs fire on Iran-Pakistan pipeline”, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/LC09Cb01.html]], IWren)</span>

<span class="Underline">Iran recently warned India that … complement China's energy diversification strategy.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Iran regime change coming now but the IPI gives them a lifeline—spurs prolif, terror, and mid east instability.**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**IAGS 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (June 15, Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, “Iran-Pakistan-India Pipeline: A view from Washington”, [[http://www.iags.org/n0507071.htm]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In normal times, </span><span class="Underline">a pipeline connecting … </span>subsequently the entire Middle East<span class="Underline">. </span>


**Nuclear Iran would launch an EMP strike on the US—expert consensus, and that kills sewage systems**

**Gingrich 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (November 15, Newt Gingrich, former Speaker of the House, “The Threat of the Current Regime in Iran”, [[http://www.aei.org/speech/23454]], IWren)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, as to capability, in … </span>__and not from a specific country.__ 

**That’s bigger than a nuclear attack**

**Washington Times 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(November 21, “U.S. seen vulnerable to space ‘pulse’ attack”, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2005/nov/21/20051121-103434-8775r/]], IWren)</span>

__An EMP attack would damage … in our most populous city.__

**Scenario Eleven is Chinese Energy Aggression**

**It’s inevitable—that leads to extinction**

**Chanlett-Avery ‘5**
Emma, Analyst in Asian Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade, 2/8/2005, “Rising Energy Competition and Energy Security in Northeast Asia: Issues for U.S. Policy” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL32466.pdf]]

Casus Belli for Major Conflict? __… for a world war-level conflict. 6__

**Scenario Twelve is Werewolf Attacks**

**They’re inevitable—thank the moon**

**__Citizens Association to Blow Up the Moon ‘6__**
[[http://boards.theforce.net/your_jedi_council_community/b10008/14643467/p1/]]

**__The ancients knew all too …__** end to the Lycanthrope Menace.

**Scenario Thirteen is Fish Prices**

**Fish price rise inevitable—that kills billions**

**Science, 2002** 
[11/8/2002. “Poor to Feel Pinch of Rising Fish Prices,” Ebsco]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">TOKYO— The first major attempt … Group on International Agricultural Research.</span>

**Scenario Fourteen is MUSHROOOOOOOOMSSSSSS**

**shrooms key to survival-their loss is inevitable.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Minter, 10,</span> Dr. David Minter, Chair of IUCN's Cup Fungi, Truffles and their Allies Specialist Group, “A future for fungi - the orphans of Rio”, http://iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?6197/A-future-for-fungi---the-orphans-of-Rio

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It's difficult to over-emphasize … </span>explicit legal protection for fungi.

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should put a giant kite in space.**



==Contention Two is My Knee Hurts== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our plan is to “Do nothing in the instance of the issues of the 1AC.” The refusal to solve accepts the inevitability of struggle, allowing us to understand pain positively.</span>**

**Nietzsche, ‘78** The anti-christ //Human, All too Human.// Aphorism #284 1878

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The means to real peace</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.— … a cloud—and from up high.</span>

**rejection of chaos constructs an unreal perfect world opposite reality that they order themselves to – this engenders ressentiment. They blame the chaos that is a part of them on their neighbor, and try to eradicated it.**
Paul **Saurette**, PhD in political theory at John Hopkins U, **in 96** "I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them': Nietzshce, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in INternational Relations Theory." Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25 no. 1 page 3-6

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Will to Order and Politics-as-Making The Philosophical Foundation of the Will to Truth/Order •. I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them. A will to a system is a lack .of ! integrity." </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Nietzsche, the philosophical … fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.</span>
=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]