=Contact Us= 
Ishani (2A) - <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0065cc; font-family: arial,sans-serif;">[[mailto:ishanidesai52@gmail.com|ishanidesai52@gmail.com]]</span>
Joel (2N) - joelsy13@gmail.com


[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Guam 1AC== 
===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
**Status quo funding for Guam infrastructure has been cut – ensures the derailment of the realignment process**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 13pt;">Tiron and Ratnam 12</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Roxana Tiron and Gopal Ratnam, writers for business week, 2/7/12,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-02-07/obama-said-to-curtail-21-billion-guam-military-expansion.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, “Obama Said to Curtail $21 Billion Guam Military Expansion”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Feb. 3 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Japan and Guam.</span>


===Contention 2 is China=== 

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">US-China tension on the brink now</span>**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Kurlantzick 7/24/12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua, Fellow for Southeast Asia, “South China Sea: From Bad to Worse?” 7-24-12 [[http://www.cfr.org/china/south-china-sea-bad-worse/p28739]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Tensions in the South China Sea ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or some combination of these and other factors.</span>

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guam key – China is challenging US dominance in the Pacific – lack of US primacy and presence will lead to naval strike</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alic 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jen, reporter for Guambuildupnews.com, Feb. 22, 2011, “Rising Chinese Navy Challenges U.S. Power In Asia-Pacific, Cementing Military Role For Guam” [[http://guambuildupnews.com/Buildup-News-Politics/NEWS-ANALYSIS-Rising-Chinese-Navy-Challenges-U.S.-Power-in-Asia-Pacific-Cementing-Military-Role-for-Guam.html]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the main force ... is well aware of this.</span>

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guam strike leads to US-China war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Barton 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paul C. Barton, Gannett Washington Bureau, 10-19-11, “Guam central to Pacific military operations,” [[http://www.navytimes.com/news/2011/10/gannett-guam-central-to-pacific-military-operations-101911/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the United States under such a scenario ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">than we’ve expected</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Mahnken said.</span>

**US-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Straits Times 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, Lexis]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span></span></span>

===Contention 3 is Deterrence=== 

**Flashpoint for an Asia Pacific nuclear conflict is high now – tensions ensure escalation.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CSIS 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Center for Strategic and International Studies, August 2012, “U.S. Force Posture Strategy in the Asia Pacific Region: An Independent Assessment,” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/120814_FINAL_PACOM_optimized.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. engagement with the ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> economic and security interests. </span>


**Spending cuts are causing realignment plans to be scrapped – means lack of US initiative ensuring lack of permanent presence on Guam**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ADC 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Association of Defense Communities, he nation’s premier membership organization serving America’s defense communities, 03-26-12, “Automatic Spending Cuts Would Jeopardize Guam Realignment, Analysts Say,” [[http://www.defensecommunities.org/automatic-spending-cuts-would-jeopardize-guam-realignment-analysts-say/|http://www.defensecommunities.org/automatic-spending-cuts-would-jeopardize-guam-realignment-analysts-say/#]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The planned move of ... completes additional planning.</span>


**An increase in Guam’s transportation infrastructure is critical to our deterrence posture.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yoshida 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kensei Yoshida, he taught Canadian history and society, Canadian politics and foreign relations, U.S. politics, modern Okinawan history, and journalism at Obirin University, 02-26-12, “Okinawa and Guam: In the Shadow of U.S. and Japanese ‘Global Defense Posture,” Asia Pacific Journal, [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-yoshida-kensei/3378]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the article leaves ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">at a Naval base. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[4]</span>

**Guam is key to military operations**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Caryl 07</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christian Caryl, writer for Newsweek Magazine, 02-25-07, “America’s Unsinkable Fleet,” [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2007/02/25/america-s-unsinkable-fleet.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So why all the fuss ... (which is currently just 170,000) of 35,000.</span>

**Japan-Korea conflict over Dokdo is escalating**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**JakartaGlobe 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jakarta Globe, Indonesian newspaper, 09-11-12, “South Korea, Japan Set for Islands Propaganda War,” [[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/asia/south-korea-japan-set-for-islands-propaganda-war/543758]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Just days after US Secretary of State ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in seeking a resolution.</span>


**Deterrence is the only internal link to suppressing Dokdo conflicts – nationalism forecloses diplomatic alternatives**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weinstein 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Weinstein, Professor of Political Science, Purdue University Chicago, 05-10-06, “South Korea-Japan Dokdo/Takeshima Dispute: Toward Confrontation,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Weinstein/1685]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is too early to tell ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but it is ever more difficult to achieve.</span>

**Without US deterrence, nationalism and domestic politics makes escalating conflicts inevitable**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weinstein 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Weinstein, Professor of Political Science, Purdue University Chicago, 05-10-06, “South Korea-Japan Dokdo/Takeshima Dispute: Toward Confrontation,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Weinstein/1685]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The conflict between Seoul and Tokyo ... are competitors in a traditional balance-of-power game.</span>

**Japan-South Korea war**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Japan Today 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Japan Today, a Tokyo-based online newspaper, featuring all the latest news on Japan and the world, including national, political, entertainment, business, technology and sports news, 08-24-12, “Magazine flirts with war scenario over Takeshima,” [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/kuchikomi/view/magazine-flirts-with-war-scenario-over-takeshima]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TOKYO — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">South Korea’s president ... that fall short of armed conflict.</span>


**Deterrence Key- Dokdo conflict causes extinction**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Richardson, 2006</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">East Asia could become ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even in a reunified Korea</span>

===Contention 4 is Trade=== 
**Guam’s economy is currently stagnant**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Santos 9/17/12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A., director of the Department of Labor of Guam, “Guam Integrated Workforce Plan” 9-17-12 [[http://dol.guam.gov/StatePlan/Integrated_State_Plan_DRAFT_PUBLIC_COMMENT_VERSION%5b5%5d_8.24..2012.pdf|http://dol.guam.gov/StatePlan/Integrated_State_Plan_DRAFT_PUBLIC_COMMENT_VERSION[5]_8.24..2012.pdf]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guam’s economy is currently stagnant ... no efforts to move beyond tourism and defense are in evidence.</span>


**Realignment is key to jumpstart growth**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JakartaGlobe 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> JakartaGlobe, Indonesian newspaper, 02-29-12, “Economy Suffers as Guam Waits for Marines,” [[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/business/economy-suffers-as-guam-waits-for-us-marines/501418]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Designed to accommodate ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> military construction is back on track</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span>


**Growth boosts trade relations**
**__Calvo et. al. ‘8__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Calvo, Fisher, and Jacob, law firm that specializes in civil litigation, international law, finance, real estate, land use and development, communications, business licensing, bank regulation and licensing, and government regulation, May 28, 2008, “U.S. Military Buildup and Rising Asian Economy Converge to Reshape Guam,” </span>[[http://calvofisher.com/news/20080528-military-buildup]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ECONOMIC BOOM TIMES IN THE PACIFIC ... in that it does not restrict the sale of land to native or indigenous persons or businesses.</span>


**Failure to realign wrecks Guam’s economy**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaye 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Matt Kaye, PNC Washington Correspondent, Pacific News Center, 09-21-12, “VIDEO: D.C. Report – Sequestration Threatens Federal Funding for Guam,” [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=27436:audio-dc-report-sequestration-threatens-federal-funding-for-guam&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vice-Chief of Naval Operations ... now, and could simply decide to wait ‘til a new Congress is seated.</span>


**This bolsters Asian-Pacific trade**

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Calvo ‘11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eddie, Governor of Guam, quoted and paraphrased by Kevin Kerrigan, writer for the Guam News, 9-27-11, “[[http://mail.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=17402:governors-weekly-address&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156|Governor's Weekly Address: A Case for Guam's Economic as Well as Strategic Importance]],” [[http://mail.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=17402:governors-weekly-address&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An Open Message to Members of ... United States of America.</span>


**Solves global economic collapse, resource wars, the environment, genocides, biological and nuclear terrorism, global war and extinction**
**__Panzner ‘9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Panzner, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, 2009, p. 136-138)</span>
Continuing calls for curbs ... the beginnings of a new world war<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Independently, economic interdependence makes war structurally impossible**
**Brooks 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jason Brooks, Department of Journalism at Carleton University, May 1, 2000, Garvey Contest Essay, “Make Trade, Not War,” http://www.independent.org/students/garvey/essay.asp?id=1456)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Free trade is ... Free trade is indeed the wellspring of peace.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam.</span></span>
===Contention 5 is Solvency=== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Action now is key – DoD investment in transportation infrastructure is key to ensure successful realignment</span>**
**Defense Communities 8/2/12** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defensecommunities.org/benefits-to-further-investment-in-guam-marianas-consultants-say/|http://www.defensecommunities.org/benefits-to-further-investment-in-guam-marianas-consultants-say/#]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> military’s ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> figure out how to</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> pay for it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Guam Road Network is crucial- it is key to military readiness and deterrence. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoN 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Guam Road Network</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (GRN) ... AMDTF and its defensive mission.</span>


**Road infrastructure key – realignment will fail without the plan**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Government Accountability Office, 11-13-09, “Defense Infrastructure: Guam Needs Timely Information from DOD to Meet Challenges in Planning and Financing Off-Base Projects and Programs to Support a Larger Military Presence,” [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/100/96469.html]]</span>
The Department of Defense's (DOD) ... Guam reports at the end of this report.


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Absent new transportation infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoN 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An improved network of roads ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> totaling approximately 66 miles (106 kilometers) in length. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Futenma will be closed regardless of the plan – the two issues have been delinked</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bloomberg 12</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sachiko Sakamaki and Takashi Hirokawa, staff writers for Bloomberg, Bloomberg, 2/8/12, “U.S. Troop Shift To Guam May Ease Tensions With Japan Over Okinawa Bases”,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-japan-to-announce-troop-relocation-plan.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The U.S. and [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/japan/|Japan]] agreed to move ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and a visiting professor at [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/keio-university/|Keio University]] in Tokyo.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Funding for water infrastructure in Guam just passed – their generic disads are non-unique</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Guam News 9/6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(“GWA Gets $790K Grant From OIA for Energy Efficient Water Pumps for Southern Guam”, 9/6/12, [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=27011:gwa-gets-790k-grant-from-oia-for-energy-efficient-water-pumps-for-southern-guam-&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Washington D. C. - The Department</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the Interior’s Assistant Secretary ... of Southern Guam.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Their defense doesn’t apply Nuclear escalation is the only option in a war due to lack of deterrence</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cheong 2k</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates ... </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span></span>

==UT== 
===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
**Status quo funding for Guam infrastructure has been cut – ensures the derailment of the realignment process**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 13pt;">Tiron and Ratnam 12</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Roxana Tiron and Gopal Ratnam, writers for business week, 2/7/12,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-02-07/obama-said-to-curtail-21-billion-guam-military-expansion.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, “Obama Said to Curtail $21 Billion Guam Military Expansion”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Feb. 3 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Japan and Guam.</span>

=== === 
===Contention 2 is China Balancing=== 
**US-Japan security alliance is a threat to Chinese power – this causes China to expand their military**
**Harner 12**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Harner, contributer for Forbes.com, 08-26-12, "U.S.-Japan Security Alliance Is Obsolete Leaving Japan Caught between China and the U.S. in a New Asian Order," http://www.forbes.com/sites/stephenharner/2012/08/26/u-s-japan-security-alliance-is-obsolete-leaving-japan-caught-between-china-and-the-u-s-in-a-new-asian-order/</span>
Has the U.S.-Japanese security alliance been a factor in the dangerous … middle, the way forward could be one of neutrality between great powers.


**Despite the perception of a peaceful foreign policy—China will inevitably revert back to aggression and militarization absent US withdrawal**
**Pak 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Major Jin H. </span>Pak<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, U.S. Army, has taught international relations and Northeast Asia politics at USMA, "China~’s Pragmatic Rise and U.S. Interests in East Asia", December 20</span>07<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.army.mil/professionalwriting/volumes/volume6/january_2008/1_08_3.html)</span>
Is Chinese foreign policy undergoing a profound change? During most of the past five … better alternative, the "hegemon of choice" for East Asian states.

**Chinese militarization against US presence causes it to abandon its peaceful rise—this increases the risk of a US-China conflict over Taiwan**
**Art 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert J. </span>Art<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christian A. Herter Professor of International Relations at Brandeis University, Director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Seminar XXI program, and a Research Associate at Harvard University~’s John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies, "Correspondence: Striking the Balance", 20</span>06<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v030/30.3art.html//avi</span>
Moreover, it is wrong to dismiss China~’s military balancing against the United States on … preparation for the eventuality that other conflictual issues will arise between them.12



**US-China Conflict over Taiwan causes Extinction**
**Cheong 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ching </span>Cheong<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– East Asia Correspondent, The Straits Times, "No one gains in war over Taiwan," 6-25-</span>2K<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Lexis-Nexis Universe))</span>
A cross-strait conflict, even at the lowest end of the intensity scale…cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**Withdrawal from Okinawa sends a signal to China that US presence is not a threat—this causes China to pursue a peaceful rise and stabilize the region**
**Bandow 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doug </span>Bandow<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, advisor to Campaign for Liberty, and a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He is also a former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, "Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia", CATO Institute, 5/25/</span>10<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845-http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]])</span>
While the U.S. remains involved in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq…own actions will be the most important factor in determining other nations~’ reactions.

===Contention 3 is Deterrence=== 

**Flashpoint for an Asia Pacific nuclear conflict is high now – tensions ensure escalation.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CSIS 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Center for Strategic and International Studies, August 2012, “U.S. Force Posture Strategy in the Asia Pacific Region: An Independent Assessment,” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/120814_FINAL_PACOM_optimized.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. engagement with the ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> economic and security interests.</span>


**Spending cuts are causing realignment plans to be scrapped – means lack of US initiative ensuring lack of permanent presence on Guam**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ADC 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Association of Defense Communities, he nation’s premier membership organization serving America’s defense communities, 03-26-12, “Automatic Spending Cuts Would Jeopardize Guam Realignment, Analysts Say,” [[http://www.defensecommunities.org/automatic-spending-cuts-would-jeopardize-guam-realignment-analysts-say/|http://www.defensecommunities.org/automatic-spending-cuts-would-jeopardize-guam-realignment-analysts-say/#]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The planned move of ... completes additional planning.</span>


**An increase in Guam’s transportation infrastructure is critical to our deterrence posture.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yoshida 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kensei Yoshida, he taught Canadian history and society, Canadian politics and foreign relations, U.S. politics, modern Okinawan history, and journalism at Obirin University, 02-26-12, “Okinawa and Guam: In the Shadow of U.S. and Japanese ‘Global Defense Posture,” Asia Pacific Journal, [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-yoshida-kensei/3378]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the article leaves ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">at a Naval base. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[4]</span>


**Realignment to Guam prevents war – geography ensures effective de-escalation and robust deterrence**

**Kamiya 12**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Matake Kamiya, is Professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. He was a main author of the report Strategic Implications of an Ongoing Buildup of the US Bases in Guam for Japan, which the Research Institute for Peace and Security published in 2007, ASIANZ Online, 6/20/12, “The Relocation of US Marines from Okinawa to Guam: Strategic Implications for Japan”,[[</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya-http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya]]</span>

Since the announcement of the Roadmap, Tokyo and Washington have consistently emphasized that the …even undermine the Japanese people~’s support for the alliance with the United States.


**Japan-Korea conflict over Dokdo is escalating**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**JakartaGlobe 12** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jakarta Globe, Indonesian newspaper, 09-11-12, “South Korea, Japan Set for Islands Propaganda War,” [[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/asia/south-korea-japan-set-for-islands-propaganda-war/543758]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Just days after US Secretary of State ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in seeking a resolution.</span>





**Deterrence is the only internal link to suppressing Dokdo conflicts – nationalism forecloses diplomatic alternatives**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weinstein 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Weinstein, Professor of Political Science, Purdue University Chicago, 05-10-06, “South Korea-Japan Dokdo/Takeshima Dispute: Toward Confrontation,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Weinstein/1685]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is too early to tell ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but it is ever more difficult to achieve.</span>



**Without US deterrence, nationalism and domestic politics makes escalating conflicts inevitable**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weinstein 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Weinstein, Professor of Political Science, Purdue University Chicago, 05-10-06, “South Korea-Japan Dokdo/Takeshima Dispute: Toward Confrontation,” [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Weinstein/1685]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The conflict between Seoul and Tokyo ... are competitors in a traditional balance-of-power game.</span>



**Japan-South Korea war**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Japan Today 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Japan Today, a Tokyo-based online newspaper, featuring all the latest news on Japan and the world, including national, political, entertainment, business, technology and sports news, 08-24-12, “Magazine flirts with war scenario over Takeshima,” [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/kuchikomi/view/magazine-flirts-with-war-scenario-over-takeshima]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TOKYO — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">South Korea’s president ... that fall short of armed conflict.</span>





**Deterrence Key- Dokdo conflict causes extinction**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Richardson, 2006</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">East Asia could become ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even in a reunified Korea</span>


===Contention 4 is Trade=== 

**Guam’s economy is currently stagnant**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Santos 9/17/12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George A., director of the Department of Labor of Guam, “Guam Integrated Workforce Plan” 9-17-12 [[http://dol.guam.gov/StatePlan/Integrated_State_Plan_DRAFT_PUBLIC_COMMENT_VERSION%5b5%5d_8.24..2012.pdf|http://dol.guam.gov/StatePlan/Integrated_State_Plan_DRAFT_PUBLIC_COMMENT_VERSION[5]_8.24..2012.pdf]])</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Guam’s economy is currently stagnant ... no efforts to move beyond tourism and defense are in evidence.</span>





**Realignment is key to jumpstart growth**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JakartaGlobe 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> JakartaGlobe, Indonesian newspaper, 02-29-12, “Economy Suffers as Guam Waits for Marines,” [[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/business/economy-suffers-as-guam-waits-for-us-marines/501418]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Designed to accommodate ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> military construction is back on track</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span>





**Growth boosts trade relations**

**__Calvo et. al. ‘8__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Calvo, Fisher, and Jacob, law firm that specializes in civil litigation, international law, finance, real estate, land use and development, communications, business licensing, bank regulation and licensing, and government regulation, May 28, 2008, “U.S. Military Buildup and Rising Asian Economy Converge to Reshape Guam,” </span>[[http://calvofisher.com/news/20080528-military-buildup]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ECONOMIC BOOM TIMES IN THE PACIFIC ... in that it does not restrict the sale of land to native or indigenous persons or businesses.</span>





**Failure to realign wrecks Guam’s economy**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaye 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Matt Kaye, PNC Washington Correspondent, Pacific News Center, 09-21-12, “VIDEO: D.C. Report – Sequestration Threatens Federal Funding for Guam,” [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=27436:audio-dc-report-sequestration-threatens-federal-funding-for-guam&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vice-Chief of Naval Operations ... now, and could simply decide to wait ‘til a new Congress is seated.</span>





**This bolsters Asian-Pacific trade**



**Calvo ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eddie, Governor of Guam, quoted and paraphrased by Kevin Kerrigan, writer for the Guam News, 9-27-11, “[[http://mail.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=17402:governors-weekly-address&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156|Governor's Weekly Address: A Case for Guam's Economic as Well as Strategic Importance]],” [[http://mail.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=17402:governors-weekly-address&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An Open Message to Members of ... United States of America.</span>





**Solves global economic collapse, resource wars, the environment, genocides, biological and nuclear terrorism, global war and extinction**

**__Panzner ‘9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Panzner, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, 2009, p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs ... the beginnings of a new world war<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Independently, economic interdependence makes war structurally impossible**

**Brooks 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jason Brooks, Department of Journalism at Carleton University, May 1, 2000, Garvey Contest Essay, “Make Trade, Not War,” http://www.independent.org/students/garvey/essay.asp?id=1456)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Free trade is ... Free trade is indeed the wellspring of peace.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam.</span>**</span>

===Contention 5 is Solvency=== 



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Action now is key – DoD investment in transportation infrastructure is key to ensure successful realignment</span>**

**Defense Communities 8/2/12** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defensecommunities.org/benefits-to-further-investment-in-guam-marianas-consultants-say/|http://www.defensecommunities.org/benefits-to-further-investment-in-guam-marianas-consultants-say/#]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> military’s ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> figure out how to</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> pay for it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Guam Road Network is crucial- it is key to military readiness and deterrence.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoN 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Guam Road Network</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (GRN) ... AMDTF and its defensive mission.</span>





**Road infrastructure key – realignment will fail without the plan**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Government Accountability Office, 11-13-09, “Defense Infrastructure: Guam Needs Timely Information from DOD to Meet Challenges in Planning and Financing Off-Base Projects and Programs to Support a Larger Military Presence,” [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/100/96469.html]]</span>

The Department of Defense's (DOD) ... Guam reports at the end of this report.





**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Absent new transportation infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoN 10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An improved network of roads ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">totaling approximately 66 miles (106 kilometers) in length.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Futenma will be closed regardless of the plan – the two issues have been delinked</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bloomberg 12</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Sachiko Sakamaki and Takashi Hirokawa, staff writers for Bloomberg, Bloomberg, 2/8/12, “U.S. Troop Shift To Guam May Ease Tensions With Japan Over Okinawa Bases”,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/u-s-japan-to-announce-troop-relocation-plan.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

The U.S. and [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/japan/|Japan]] agreed to move ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and a visiting professor at [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/keio-university/|Keio University]] in Tokyo.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Funding for water infrastructure in Guam just passed – their generic disads are non-unique</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Guam News 9/6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(“GWA Gets $790K Grant From OIA for Energy Efficient Water Pumps for Southern Guam”, 9/6/12, [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=27011:gwa-gets-790k-grant-from-oia-for-energy-efficient-water-pumps-for-southern-guam-&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Washington D. C. - The Department</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the Interior’s Assistant Secretary ... of Southern Guam.</span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">No offense – the US will act hegemonic even if deterrence declines—plan key to effectiveness</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert</span> **Kagan 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, former fellow @ Carnegie, PhD History, expert in defense policy, The Weekly Standard, January2011, “Cutting defense spending would place the US in a greater peril than the debt crisis”</span>

It would require not just a modest reshaping of American foreign policy priorities but a …those years was not sufficient to keep the United States out of war.




**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, that makes your impacts worse—the US will lash out irrationally</span>**

**Shapiro 9** – <span style="font-size: 70%;">Robert, professor of political science at Columbia University and acting director Rule at Home”, World Politics, 61.1, Jan, MUSE</span>

Plausible as these arguments may be, the opposite case may be equally plausible…their domestic politics, not simply their position in the international system.


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Withdrawal from deterrence causes inevitable re-intervention—no offense</span>**

**Gray 9** <span style="background-color: white;">- </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, England, and Founder of National Institute for Public Policy, Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, Strategic Studies Institute, US Army War College, 1/13,</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [[</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubid=902-http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubid=902]]</span>


After Iraq, Americans could well decide that the possibilities of policy and strategic error …strategic advances of others. Policy and strategy decisions may not be wholly.


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Federal funding frozen now</span>**

<span style="background-color: white;">**PIR 12**, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Pacific Island Reports, Steve Limtiaco, From Center for Pacific Islands Studies, University of Hawaii, 8/3/12, “Guam, CNMI Suggested For U.S. Military Expansion In Pacific”,</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [[</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">http://pidp.org/pireport/2012/August/08-03-12.htm-http://pidp.org/pireport/2012/August/08-03-12.htm]]</span>

The U.S. military should expand its existing forces in the Pacific… except for work related to the location of a new firing range.


=Negative= 
==Intel== 
===Spring Woods=== 

2NR Round 2 vs Dulles HS:

Fiscal Cliff DA
Case

2NR Round 3 vs Kinkaid MJ:

Pedestrian Tradeoff DA
Case

===UT=== 

2NR Round 2 vs Kinkaid RT:

Foucault K
Pedestrian Tradeoff DA

2NR Round 4 vs Crosby CZ:

Foucault K
Case

2NR Round 5 vs Nixon ??:

Guam Tradeoff DA
Oil DA