[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=1AC – Econ= 
<span class="TagChar">Double dip recession is coming next year – only domestic growth efforts solve – none of their resiliency or alt cause claims apply.</span>
<span class="TagChar">Sivy, ‘8/28</span> [August 28, 2012, Michael Sivy is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition. Sivy has appeared as a stock-market commentator on television, including the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. In addition, he has been heard on NPR's All Things Considered, PRI's Marketplace and on the CBS Radio network. “Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?”, http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/]
In addition to a host of warnings, ....<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. economy is hardly likely to do any better as storm clouds start rolling in.</span>

US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.
<span class="TagChar">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ‘8</span> [October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]
With the global financial system in serious trouble....<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ust at our moment of maximum vulnerability.</span>

Global economic decline escalates tension – causes nuclear war.
<span class="TagChar">Harris and Burrows, ‘9</span> [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, .....<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>
ITS deployment is key to the economy – reduces congestion, solves job growth, and leads to high paying jobs – state budget crisis means only federal role solves.
<span class="TagChar">Keeling and Mooney, ‘11</span> [2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for Business Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">High unemployment, languid .... and services they purchase and those employed to provide them.</span>


=1AC – Terror= 
Al-Qaeda has capability and motive to develop nuclear and biological weapons – America will be targeted.
<span class="TagChar">Telegraph, ‘11</span> [February 2, 2011, Heidi Blake was The Daily Telegraph's Investigative Reporter until November 2011. She was nominated for Young Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the 2010 British Press Awards having joined the paper in 2008. Christopher Hope writes for The Telegraph. “WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'” [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html|**http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html**]]]
A <span style="font-size: 10pt;">leading atomic regulator has .......</span> to international security with the potential to cause "extraordinary loss of life".
Probability of nuclear acquisition is high
<span class="TagChar">Mowatt-Larssen, ‘10</span> [January 2010, Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, former Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, U.S. Department of Energy, former Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, Counter-terrorist Center, Central Intelligence Agency, recipient of the CIA Director’s Award, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, “Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality?” <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf]]</span>]
Osama <span style="font-size: 10pt;">bin Ladin’s assertion in ....... motion that has not been found</span>.

Nuclear terror attack’s inevitable now
<span class="TagChar">US Russia Joint Threat Assessment, ‘11</span> (May 2011, ABOUT THE U.S.-RUSSIA JOINT THREAT ASSESSMENT ON NUCLEAR TERRORISM The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism is a collaborative project of Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and the U.S.A. and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences led by Rolf Mowatt-Larssen and Pavel Zolotarev. Authors: • Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. • Colonel Yuri Morozov (retired Russian Armed Forces). Professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 1995–2000. • Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, 2005–2008. • Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Moscow-based defense and security expert and writer, 1993–2008. • William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and director of the U.S.-Russia Initiative to Prevent Nuclear Terrorism, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. • Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. • Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. Contributor: • Vladimir Lukov, director general of autonomous non-profit organization “Counter-Terrorism Center.”, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The expert community distinguishes pathways terrorists might take to the bomb</span> (discussed in detail in the next section of the report). <span style="font-size: 10pt;">One is the use of a nuclear weapon that has been ....... nuclear terrorism occurs</span>.

<span class="TagChar">Nuclear terror causes extinction</span>

<span class="TagChar"> Morgan, ‘9</span> [Dennis, Professor at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, November, Science Direct]
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, ......<span style="font-size: 10pt;">misery and suffering in a nuclear winter</span>.

Our transportation infrastructure is vulnerable – plan solves.
<span class="TagChar">Zeng, ‘7</span> [September 2007, Daniel Zeng, University of Arizona, Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon University
Sudarshan S. Chawathe, University of Maine, Hua Huang, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Fei-Yue Wang, Chinese Academy of Sciences “Protecting Transportation Infrastructure”, From the article “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, http://www.its.washington.edu/itsc/v9n3.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Effective information sharing across datasets and system boundaries, the ability to fuse information and data from sources that provide</span>(partially) <span style="font-size: 10pt;">overlapping and complementary coverage, and efficient, secure data management have long been identified as key drivers of effective intelligence and homeland security-related information systems. Information systems for protecting transportation infrastructure share the same design objectives. To support counterterrorism efforts such as preparing, detecting, and responding to terrorism events, large amounts of information in different modalities from many sources must be acquired, integrated, and interpreted in the right context, often in real time.2 In addition, a critical need exists for a data-management infrastructure that can support information flows across jurisdictional and organizational boundaries</span> (for example, intelligence, law-enforcement, and emergency-response communities). Despite existing efforts, researchers and practitioners must still make significant progress in this area from both technical and policy perspectives, with careful attention to laws and regulations, privacy considerations, and civil rights.
Al Qaeda is planning biological attacks AND developing weapons is easy and hard to detect.
<span class="TagChar">Garrett, ‘12</span> [January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]
Within government circles around the world,......synthetic-biology revolution.

Bioweapons escalation causes extinction and collapses the economy – this evidence assumes all their defense.
<span class="TagChar">Kellman, ‘8</span> [May-June 2008, Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law, THE FUTURIST, World Future Society, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A looming danger confronts the world— consequences for all humanity.</span>

Plan solves nuclear terror and bioterror.
<span class="TagChar">Pincus, ‘11</span> [September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]]</span>]
A variety of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">sensors</span> ......during emergencies.


=1AC - Solvency= 

US falling behind – Federal deployment is Key
<span class="TagChar">Ezell, ’10 </span>[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]
In contrast to Japan.....<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> intelligent transportation system.</span>

ITS technology must be developed at the national level – integration and coordination
<span class="TagChar">Ezell, ’10 </span>[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]
At the outset, this report provided ......<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to deploy and integrate ITS systems. </span>

Transportation bill should’ve triggered their Disads.
<span class="TagChar">CMAP, ‘7/5</span> [July 5, 2012, Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning is the official regional planning organization for the northeastern Illinois counties region's addressing transportation, housing, economic development, open space, the environment, and other quality-of-life, “MAP-21 -- Major Programmatic and Policy Changes” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/policy-updates/-/blogs/map-21-major-programmatic-and-policy-changes]]</span>]
Total Funding Levels<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> .....</span> to 83 percent under SAFETEA-LU.

But Map-21 still doesn’t solve ITS – it only sustains current research funding.
<span class="TagChar">RITA, ’12</span> [August 2012, Research and Innovative Technology Administration US DOT, “ITS JPO Newsletter August 2012”, http://www.its.dot.gov/newsletter/august2012.htm]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Last month, Congress passed the latest federal aid highway law (MAP-21), .....research program at similar funding levels.</span>

States cannot do ITS even if they have the funds – no work capacity
<span class="TagChar">GAO, ’12</span> [March 2012, US Government Accountability Office, “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS Improved DOT Collaboration and Communication Could Enhance the Use of Technology to Manage Congestion”, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589430.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ITS is a rapidly developing field that ...projects are available.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Octas Solvency Cards</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal government key</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. National leadership—key to international leadership and coordination—a single agency is key</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ezell, ’10</span> [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Policy factors appear to be much .... objectives towards ITS.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. Coordination and management</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ezell, ’10</span> [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]

As discussed subsequently, .....how, are the subjects to which this report now turns.



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That’s key—coordination is prerequisite to effective deployment</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ezell, ’10</span> [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]


Given the technical feasibility .....<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to deploy and integrate ITS systems</span>.







=Negative= 

===Negative Strategies=== 

====Wake==== 

Round 2: National Cathedral SS (Natives: Racism)

1NC: Withdrawal from South Korea CP, Spending DA, Capitalism K, Elections DA, Case
2NR: CP, Spending, Case

Round 3: Marriots Ridge WZ (ITS: Econ and Heg)
1NC: Race K, T - Inhericality, T - TI, Elections DA, Dedev, Case
2NR: Dedev

Round 5: College Prep HP (Maintenance Harbor Trust Fund: Trade and Agriculture)
1NC: T - Net Increase and Investment, Deficit Spending CP, Bond Markets DA, Race K, Stim Bad
2NR: T

Doubles: Milton JV (Mayport)
1NC: T - Military, Race K, Bond Markets DA, Middle East War Good, Indo-Pak War Good, Prolif God, I/L turn Naval Heg
2NR: T


=== ===