[[media type="custom" key="21618024"]][[toc]]
Email me for any cites you want at DanAlessandro23@gmail.com I'll also read stuff from the other Lexington debaters wikis, so check those out too.

=NSD CAMP TOURNAMENT DISCLOSURE= 
1. Plan text:
<span style="font-family: Times;">My advocacy is the United States will use PRISM, Carnivore, and the Disease Surveillance System.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Standard text: Minimizing existential risks</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">OR</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Standard text: Maximizing Expected well-being</span>
=September-October= 
See Lexington JC
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==**<span style="font-family: Times;">THREE DOLLAR PLAN FULL TEXT DISCLOSURE</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-family: Times;">Plan Text: The United States should provide universal healthcare through a non-profit, independent agency mandated by the federal government and funded and managed by its policyholders. All disadvantages must be specific to the plan text. I reserve the right to clarify in the 1AC.</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: Times;">**Other planks: (sometimes read depending on advantages that were read for that round)**</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Employees of the agency would be prohibited from receiving any health-care compensation not paid by the agency. There would be an evaluative system for health care providers with consequences for quality of care. All citizens will be required to pay a premium for their chosen insurance policy, and preventive care would be included in all policies. Minimum coverage would be mandatory and paid for by the patient, government, or insurance agency. For-profit corporations would fund research only through mechanisms approved by the National Institutes of Health</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Mohit clarifies the advocacy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MOHIT 1</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Behzad Mohit, Behzad Mohit is a physician and a graduate of the State University of New York medical school with eleven years of postgraduate studies in prestigious universities and research institutes including Mallory Institute of Pathology (Harvard, Boston University, Tufts), Brandeis Graduate Department of Biochemistry, the National Institutes of Health and the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco. His original research at Brandeis, National Institutes of Health and the UCSF biochemistry department has been published in prestigious journals of science, proceedings at the National Academy of Sciences, British Journal of Bacteriology and others. Numerous medical scientists have quoted his work in immunology and bacteriology and other fields. He is a board certified clinical pathologist and board eligible dermatologist. He has worked in private practice for twenty years, and worked pro bono at the Blackmans Free Clinic of San Francisco. He had an honorable discharge from the U.S. Public Health Service with a rank of Commander in the U.S. Navy, Universal Health Care System for the United States of America: “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Who pays the premiums? </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">People would pay for</span><span style="font-family: Times;">their own </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">health care through insurance premiums paid</span><span style="font-family: Times;">by them </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">to this single, nonprofit</span><span style="font-family: Times;">insurance</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">agency</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. People would choose their own doctor or other health care provider and coverage, and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the system would offer several layers of options for insurance:</span><span style="font-family: Times;">A) the premier choice would include such things as cosmetic surgery and other non-essential services in addition to the coverage described in “c”. B) </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> lowest tier would include only emergency and other essential services plus preventive care. C) There would be policies in between “A” and “B” providing a medium level of care. In all cases people will receive adequate care or better, including preventive care. The </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">minimal </span><span style="font-family: Times;">type of health care </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">coverage</span><span style="font-family: Times;">described in part “B” </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">is mandatory</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> Premiums paid would be tax deductible. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The basic minimum policy premium would be paid either by the patient, the government</span><span style="font-family: Times;">(e.g. for those eligible for Medicaid) </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">or by the insurance agency through its surplus fund</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Again, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">preventive care would be included in all policies. There would be 100% coverage, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">including prescription drugs and medical devices, </span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">with no co-pay</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> by the patient. Doctor visits would be very affordable, with </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[there’s] a small charge</span><span style="font-family: Times;">(e.g. $10) </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">for appointments initiated by the patient</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> to discourage overuse. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">No[ne]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">charge would be incurred </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">for appointments initiated by doctors</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> or other health care providers. The state or federal government may pay the premiums of the indigent (as they do now). The bureaucracy and the large cost of medical administration of Medicare and Medicaid would be almost entirely eliminated. This alone will result in tremendous cost savings for Medicare and Medicaid, as well as the myriad of disparate ways of billing and collecting from multiple insurance agencies. It would put an end to fraud, double billing, and abuse. Doctors would not need to bill or fill insurance forms. The professional provider’s time is better used taking care of patients, rather than dealing with a myriad of insurance forms, billing and collecting. The cost savings for doctors, hospitals, pharmacists, federal and state government, etc., would be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. Oversight: </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the board of overseers would oversee the policies and management of the agency. It would be 1/3 appointed by the health and education secretaries and approved by congress and 2/3 elected by the direct vote of the policyholders.</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> The board members would serve for a period of four years, but half the members would be reappointed and re-elected every two years. This arrangement would provide continuity as well as new people, similar to the arrangement for the U.S. Senate. There would be a four-year term limit on the board. The major responsibility of this oversight board would be to appoint and monitor the management of the agency. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">All </span><span style="font-family: Times;">upper </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">management positions in the agency</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, including members of the board of overseers </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">would have term limits and salary caps.</span>
===<span class="Tags">Inherency: The ACA is not sufficient to cover all Americans. </span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">WALKER </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Jon Walker. "The ACA’s Projected 93.1 Percent Insurance Coverage Is Not 'Universal Health Care’.” January 23, 2012. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fdlaction.firedoglake.com/2012/01/23/the-acas-projected-93-1-percent-insurance-coverage-is-not-universal-health-care/]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ]</span>

===**Framework**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">The resolution is a question of the obligations of the United States government, so the value is appropriate governmental obligation. Questions of morality or ethics are only relevant in terms of the government, since they have specific obligations to their people. The origin of government is based on individuals coming together to centralize power under a sovereign that protects its citizens wellbeing and security. Governments are thus obligated to the public good so it derives its authority from fulfilling its obligations. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">WEST explains</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Robin West. "Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, a recognition that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">rights might sometimes be positive entitlements </span><span style="font-family: Times;">to state action, as well as, at other times, negative entitlements to be free of state action, is truer to the philosophical liberal classics that animate the liberal tradition than the insistence of liberal constitutional rights theorists on the essential negativity of rights. Let me start with Thomas Hobbes. Hobbes regarded the positive obligation of the state to protect individuals against private violence as being at the heart of the social contract. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The individual's right to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">protection was the only "right" created by the transition from nature into civil society</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Otherwise, the Hobbesian Leviathan can do what it wishes and the individual citizen must submit-the Hobbesian citizen does indeed lack negative rights. This is not so, however, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">with respect to the state's duty to protect the individual against private violence: there, the state is bound to act affirmatively, and the individual is fully entitled to a positive right</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. This positive right of the citizen to the state's affirmative action was by no means a peripheral feature of Hobbes' jurisprudence. Rather, the bargain struck-</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the individual relinquishes self help, in exchange for the state's obligation to protect him</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> from violence-was, for Hobbes, the raison d'8tre of the state's existence. The Leviathan's protection of the individual against the private violence of others is the quid pro quo for the individual's relinquishment of his right to self-help available to him in the state of nature.' The individual, in other words, is just as contractually entitled to receive that protection as the state is obligated to provide it-in short, the citizen has a right to it. The state's obligation to protect the citizen against private violence and the citizen's continuing right to receive it, in Hobbes' view, was foundational and inalienable. If we take Hobbes seriously, the individual has a right to the state's protection against the violence or aggression of other private parties-for Hobbes, this was, to borrow a phrase from Steven Heyman's important article on this point, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the "first duty of government</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">And, a minimal set of protections would include access to health care, since it is key to individual wellbeing. The state must prioritize granting access to health care since it is a pre-requisite for expressing any other human right. Neglecting protection means the state has failed in its duty to provide protection for its citizens.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">JACK DONNELLY writes</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Jack Donnelly, Professor of International Relations and Political Theory at the University of Denver Graduate School of International Studies. "A Human Right to Health Care." Health Care Reform: A Human Rights Approach, edited by Audrey R. Chapman, 1994. Georgetown University Press.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The right to life is usually conceptualized</span> in the U.S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a right not to be killed</span>. Our typical focus is on state violence, the right to life providing protection against arbitrary deprivation of life by the state. But the right to life also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[which] implies state protection against private violence. If the state </span>willfully and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">systematically fails to protect people against violent assaults, it clearly violates the right to life</span>. This is most obvious in the case of politically tolerated death squads. But deaths resulting from the systematic failure of the police to provide levels of protection similar to that received by the rest of society or an elite group are also violations of the right to life (not to be killed)? <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Denial of certain forms of health care can</span> clearly and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">directly lead to death</span>. When the care could be provided at modest cost, the rights violation is very closely analogous to failure to police. Death results from denial of a generally available social service to a particular segment of society. When that care could be provided at no net cost- as many people argue is the case in the United States today-we face a particularly objectionable violation. Likewise, the right to security of the person provides not merely protection against the state but protection by the state. In the United States, this is often expressed as the obligation of the state to protect "law and order." A state that systematically fails to protect large segments of society against violent private assaults (assuming the I existence of more or less readily available societal resources to provide such protection) violates the right to security of the person no less I surely, although somewhat less directly, than if it directly terrorizes the population or if it tolerates systematically abusive police practices. Denial of access to health care often produces results very similar to violent assault. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The victim suffers preventable injury</span> or debilitation <span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a result of the failure of the state</span> to provide a generally available social service to some segment of society. And numerous American families face far greater threats to their security from lack of health insurance, or worry about the loss of insurance, than from the risk of being mugged while walking in their neighborhood. Given the high level of American spending on health care, such suffering and insecurity represents a particularly objectionable violation of basic human dignity. These violations are additionally problematic because they involve blatant discrimination. In the United States, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">health care is not randomly distributed, but rationed on the basis of</span> employment and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">income.</span> The American welfare system formally guarantees access to the poorest in society. Therefore, some of the most severe problems of access may not lie at the very bottom of society. Certain segments of the working poor and those temporarily unemployed but not ordinarily considered ”poor” are probably at least as severely affected. Nonetheless, the <span style="font-size: 12pt;">denial is systematic</span>, well-known, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and thus a form of</span> invidious <span style="font-size: 12pt;">discrimination</span>. Analogies with the rights to life and security are especially telling because these rights are often thought of as functional prerequisites to the enjoyment of other rights and thus unusually important human rights. Although I am leery of such arguments-they often are taken to suggest that politically dangerous <span style="font-size: 12pt;">priority should be given to these rather minimal rights</span>-it is true that <span style="font-size: 12pt;">without protection of these rights, the value of other rights</span> usually <span style="font-size: 12pt;">is radically reduced</span>. Therefore, these analogies suggest that the case for a human right to health care is particularly strong

Thus, the standard is maximizing expected well being.


===Spending Advantage=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">The economy is fragile but recovering now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Geithner 5/19</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Timothy, US Treasury Secretary, "Most Dangerous Phase behind U.S.," [[http://www.headliner.co.nz/videos/9097.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">How is the U.S. economy doing today? </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The economy is gradually getting stronger</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, and we have come a long way since 2008, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">but we still have a ways to go</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> to repair the damage caused by the crisis. And </span><span style="font-family: Times;">we face some tough challenges</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, including many that preceded the financial crisis. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">The U.S. economy has expanded at an average annual rate of 2.5 percent since the summer of 2009</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. Our economy has grown by almost 7 percent since mid-2009. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">The private sector has added more than 4.2 million jobs</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> since job growth resumed, including almost 500,000 manufacturing jobs—the strongest manufacturing job growth since the mid-90s. Importantly, growth has been led by the private sector, particularly investment and exports. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">The balance sheets of businesses are strong.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> The economy is more productive than before the crisis. Investment in equipment and software has risen by 34 percent over the past two and a half years. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Exports have grown 26 percent</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> in real terms over the same period. And growth in investment and exports has far outpaced the average for comparable periods after the last eight recessions. Growth has been relatively broad-based, with increases in manufacturing, energy, agriculture, and high tech, offsetting the continued weakness in housing and construction and the contraction in government services and employment. American companies are starting to move production back to the United States after decades of offshoring. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">We are making significant progress in working through the excesses and imbalances that helped cause the financial crisis</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Household debt is down almost 20 percentage points</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> relative to income and is roughly back to 2004 levels. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Financial sector leverage is down substantially and credit is expanding</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Housing and commercial real estate construction are starting to pick up after five years of contraction. Americans are saving more</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> than before the crisis, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">and our budget deficit has started to decline</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">as a share of the economy. We are borrowing less from the rest of the world; relative to GDP, our current account deficit is now half the level it was before the crisis. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">The debt from spending tanks the economic recovery. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Hunt 5/17</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">(Lacy H, executive vice president of Hoisington Investment Management Company - investment adviser specializing in the management of fixed-income portfolios for large institutional clients, "Economic Recovery Via Shared Sacrifice, Cutting Government Spending, Deficit and Debts," </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article34706.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">LH:</span><span style="font-family: Times;">It may occur sooner than we think.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> If interest rates in the marketplace were to go up 200 basis points, it would add approximately $350B a year to the federal budget deficit. Of course, you'd have to borrow that, and then borrow more and more in succeeding years. So the </span><span style="font-family: Times;">interestexpense is</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> really </span><span style="font-family: Times;">a</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span style="font-family: Times;">time bomb</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. I don't think a rise in long-term rates is at hand, but it's very problematic as we go forward. TGR: You also write about a negative risk premium—when the total return of the S&P 500 is less than the return on long-term Treasuries and thus equity investors aren't being rewarded for the risks they take. It seems to contradict the concept that we're marching toward this bang point. Will the negative risk premium continue until we reach the bang point? LH: First of all, let me explain a bit more about the negative risk premium. We know that over very long periods of time investors in stocks have received a premium over investors in long-term Treasuries. If that didn't hold true over the long run, people wouldn't take the risk. But there have been significant exceptions. Following the build-up of debt in the 1860s and 1870s, we had a 20-year span during which the S&P 500 return was lower than long-term Treasury returns. Then, even though World War II interrupted, another period of negative risk premiums lasted from 1928 to 1948. In both instances, 20 years was a long time to wait for risk to be rewarded. Certainly there were quarters, even years, during those spans when the S&P 500 returns were better than the Treasuries, but when you stand back and you look at the entire period, risk was not rewarded. We've had another massive build-up of debt over the last 20 years, and since 1991 we've been in another negative risk premium cycle. We've past the 20-year point already, and if we continue along the path toward increased indebtedness, we'll extend the negative risk premium interval this time around. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">I think it will be very difficult for the normal economic conditions to prevail</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. A lot of the pioneering work on the role of debt was done by Irving Fisher. He thought the economy operated on a normal business cycle model, one to two bad years, four to five good years. The one to two got a little testy, but it was over and you went on. That's why he was fooled by the Great Depression. He freely admitted he was fooled. He made some outrageous statements about the health of the economy in 1929, but he did his //mea culpa,// reexamined what he thought and concluded that the normal business cycle doesn't work in highly over-indebted situations. In those situations, the </span><span style="font-family: Times;">indebtedness controls nearly all other economic variables</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">—including the risk premium. The normal bounds don't work, just as they did not work after the panics of 1873, 1929, and 1989, when risk was not rewarded. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">So by trying to solve this over-indebtedness problem by getting further in debt, the standard of living will not rise and</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, in the final analysis, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">the stock market will reflect how well our people are doing. And our people are not doing wel</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">l. Of course, </span><span style="font-family: Times;">the bang point is a point of calamitous development, but it would mark the climax of a prolonged period of underperformance and financial risk management</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. It's not at hand. We have the ability to control it, but we have to have the political will to do so. At present, it doesn't appear to be forthcoming. TGR: You've indicated that </span><span style="font-family: Times;">the only way for developed nations to get out from under this debt burden is austerity, not inflation</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> or more Quantitative Easing (QE). With the income of average American citizens stagnant, at best, for a decade already, what would spark the political will to force austerity measures on a beleaguered populace? LH: No one wants austerity. Neither the politicians nor the public want it. The McKinsey Global Institute did an outstanding study of what happens to highly overleveraged countries that get </span><span style="font-family: Times;">in</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">to crisis situations. It found </span><span style="font-family: Times;">32 cases</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> that have fully played out, starting with the 1930s. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">In 16 cases</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> of the 32—or half—</span><span style="font-family: Times;">austerity was required</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Only eight cases were resolved by higher inflation, but they were all very small, emerging economies. A small country with no major role in world markets can get away with debasing its currency, but a major player cannot do that.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">And, health care reform is key to rebuilding the US economy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">[Associatd Press, “</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">Obama seeks to rally support for health care bill”, MSNBC, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/32088107/ns/politics-white_house/t/obama-seeks-rally-support-health-care-bill/#.ULE6VbSLMTw|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/32088107/ns/politics-white_house/t/obama-seeks-rally-support-health-care-bill/#.ULE6VbSLMTw]], 7/23/09]</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">MSNBC</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">The president said that in addition to helping millions who lack coverage, the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">health care legislation is central to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the goal of eventually </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">rebuilding the economy </span><span style="font-family: Times;">stronger than it was before the recession that began more than a year ago. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">He said</span><span style="font-family: Times;">Medicare and Medicaid, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">government health care programs </span><span style="font-family: Times;">for the elderly and the poor, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">are the "biggest driving force behind our federal deficit."Unless they are tamed</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, he said to a national TV audience, "</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">we will not be able to control our deficit</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. If we do not reform health care, your premiums and out-of-pocket costs will continue to skyrocket."</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. US health care spending is high and increasing now. The plan solves this spending: 1. eliminates money wasted on bureaucracy 2. quality control programs 3. productivity from a healthy workforce 4. negotiation in bulk</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MOHIT 2 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Behzad Mohit “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
In summary, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the </span>proposedsingle payer universal health care <span style="font-size: 12pt;">system will cut </span>the per capita<span style="font-size: 12pt;">cost of </span>ethical, therapeutic and preventive <span style="font-size: 12pt;">health care </span>delivery in the United States from the present $8,000 per year per capita to at least one<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> half while covering every individual</span>. This means <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the cost will drop from </span>the present <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2 trillion to 1 trillion.</span> In reality, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the proposed structure is </span>even more effective and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">cheaper because of larger size, minimal government bureaucracy as well as structured quality control and incentive programs. </span>If we add<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the value of productivity increase accrued from a healthier workforce, and keeping jobs in America because of better and cheaper health care for US companies, </span>we definitely benefit our economy and country much more than the cost savings described above. The cost of Medicare and Medicaid is rapidly escalating. Former U.S. Comptroller General David Walker has predicted that if spending continues on its present course that by 2050, the federal government will spend $14 trillion on the Medicare and Medicaid programs alone, or nearly $14,000 per household. 4 Instituting a non-profit universal health care system would drastically reduce this cost. This insurance <span style="font-size: 12pt;">organization </span>would have the advantage that it <span style="font-size: 12pt;">would</span> be able to <span style="font-size: 12pt;">negotiate bulk purchases from</span> pharmaceutical companies and other <span style="font-size: 12pt;">vendors</span>. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">cost of medication would be </span><span class="CardChar">substantially</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">lowered</span> (it is now very high in the United States). It would be even lower than it is now in Canada and Europe because of the much larger U.S. market where better price points can be negotiated. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">At present</span>, in the United States, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">per capita health care costs</span>more than <span style="font-size: 12pt;">twice the</span>median <span style="font-size: 12pt;">amount paid by 30 industrialized nations</span>, even though 15 percent of the U.S. population has no coverage. 5 According to data taken by the OECD, in 2006 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 12pt;">spent</span>$6,714 per capita on health care <span style="font-size: 12pt;">($8000 per capita [on health care] in 2008). Canada spent</span> only about <span style="font-size: 12pt;">half that amount,</span> $3,678 (ten percent of its GDP). 6 The United States similarly dwarfed French spending <span class="CardChar">in 2005</span>, roughly doubling it, while in the same year <span style="font-size: 12pt;">England reached</span>only <span style="font-size: 12pt;">40 percent of American spending</span>. 7 Japan offers universal coverage, patient choice of provider, and premiums based on income and ability to pay. Its hospitals are predominantly private and its health insurance is nationalized. The result is the highest life expectancy in the world, and one of the lowest infant mortality rates. Japan manages to achieve this by spending only 6.6 percent of its GDP. 8 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The single, non-profit agency will be even more cost effective than the government-run systems of Canada, Europe</span> and Japan<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as it is privately managed and avoids the inefficiencies</span> inherent <span style="font-size: 12pt;">in government-run bureaucracies. Pharmaceutical companies’ expenses would also drop substantially as these companies would no longer need to advertise products or lobby. This of course would decrease the overhead incurred by the pharmaceutical companies. Doctors would no longer benefit financially from prescribing medications. Additionally this approach would limit the abuse of prescription drugs and ill effects of overmedicating the patients. </span>Doctors would be relieved from spending time billing and filling out insurance forms or practicing “defensive medicine.” They will feel free to spend their valuable time caring for their patients. This alone would save additional billions of dollars now spent on billing and collecting that do not contribute to patient care,<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and result in professional dissatisfaction. The Institute of Medicine estimated that lower worker productivity, brought on by poor health and a lack of health insurance, results in an economic loss of between $65 billion and $130 billion annually. 9 A similar study by the HR Policy Association estimated that the economic cost of reduced productivity is between $87 billion and $126 billion annually. The second major productivity gain </span>under universal health care <span style="font-size: 12pt;">is the elimination of “job lock.” Job lock occurs when people stay at their current job solely for the health care benefits. In 2003, 2.3 percent of the California work force (179,000 people) would have changed jobs, except that they had to stay at their current jobs because of the employment-based health care. Job lock accounts for $772 million in lost productivity each year. Businesses are clearly concerned about the rising cost of providing health care. They would benefit immensely by the single agency universal health care system proposed. In 2004 a study by Hewett Associates found that when asked about the cost of health care, 96 percent of senior executives at 648 large companies felt the issue was of significant or critical concern. The economic benefits of universal health care affect not only workers, but the companies that employ those workers. In 2005 companies like Ford and General Motors cited the cost of providing health care to their workers as a major reason for their financial difficulty. In the proposed system, most corporations providing health benefits to their employees will see their healthcosts substantially reduced, most likely by half or better, as it is already in other countries. In a letter drafted by GM, Ford and Daimler Chrysler, the American auto manufacturers expressed their support for Canada’s universal health care system. They praised the system’s increased productivity because “Workers in the auto industry, and in the many manufacturing and service industries which supply automakers, benefit directly from access to public health care services. Thanks to this system, they are healthier and more productive.” </span><span class="CardChar">As stated above,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the cost </span>per capita in our proposed system <span style="font-size: 12pt;">will be considerably lower than other industrial countries because of the size of the U.S. market, i.e. better cost negotiating and avoidance of government-managed bureaucracy in running the program.</span><span class="CardChar"> Medicare cost to the government will also similarly decrease. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cost of administration in health care was estimated at $300 billion per year in 2004, according to the National Coalition Health Care. It has been increasing ever since. 15 In 2005 only 20 percent of physicians in the United States used electronic medical records, which offer error-reduction techniques and improved treatment and efficiency, compared to 90 percent in Sweden, 58 percent in Great Britain, and 48 percent in Germany. </span>Not only would yearly healthcare expenditures be drastically reduced by a one-payer, computerized payment system to the providers and vendors, but<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the universal health care system proposed will save </span>up to an additional <span style="font-size: 12pt;">$120 billion in billing and administrative costs. This alone would result in drastic reduction of costs not related to the care of the patients. Again the doctors would no longer need to deal with billing or insurance forms and could devote their time to patient care. The result will be substantially lower cost structures as well as the elimination of duplicate and unnecessary procedures. Consequentially, we are confident that </span>the cost of premiums to the patients would be cut at least in half<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of what they pay now. In addition, they receive better care, including preventive care (see part two for supporting data). Further, all the people will have health care coverage, with no barrier to good care, i.e. copayment. Additionally, prevention will increase worker productivity and further reduce costs. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support - also causes great power transitions.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">ROYAL</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Jedediah Royal, 2010, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-14]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">periods of economic decline </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">may</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">increase the likelihood of external conflict</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson’s (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. As such, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(see also Gilpin, 10981) that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (Werner, 1999). Seperately, Polllins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium, and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland’s (1996,2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that ‘future expectation of trade’ is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behavior of states. He argues that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. However, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">if the expectation of future trade decline</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">the likelihood for conflict increases , as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states. Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlationbetween internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002, p.89). Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. ‘</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Diversionary theory’ suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to create a ‘rally round the flag’ effect.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997) Miller (1999) and Kisanganie and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">periods of weak economic performance</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">in the United States, and thus weak presidential popularity, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force</span>

===Auto Industry Advantage=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Uniqueness- Currently, the auto industry is losing money due to the US health care system. If costs don’t decrease, the auto industries will move abroad.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MOHIT</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Behzad Mohit,: </span>//[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-behzad-mohit/universal-health-care-can_b_201154.html|//Universal Health Care Can Save Our Economy and Keep 1.7 million Jobs in the U.S.: Part III//]]//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-behzad-mohit/universal-health-care-can_b_201154.html (5/11/09)</span>//
It was just in the news that<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GM laid off 21,000 workers and plans to close </span>all<span style="font-size: 12pt;">its U.S. plants this</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">summer for</span>__at least __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">9 weeks</span>__. What<span style="font-size: 12pt;">if GM, Chrysler and Ford moved </span><span class="DebateUnderline">all their</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">operations to Canada</span>?In 2007 General Motors spent $4.6 billion on health care for its employees. Ford and Chrysler each spent $2.2 billion as well. If those companies moved to Canada<span style="font-size: 12pt;">they would save</span>all that<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in health care costs ($9 billion per year), and the U</span>nited<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> S</span>tates__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">would lose</span>__ 240,000 jobs and $156 billion in tax revenue. Of course, that loss doesn't includethe ripple effect that the move would have on<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the 974,000 people in the automotive supply industry, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">or</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the 1.7 million jobs created by the money those people spend</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">. </span>The<span style="font-size: 12pt;">health care cost is a major </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">factor in </span>__the near bankruptcy and<span style="font-size: 12pt;">competitive disadvantage of our auto industry</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">.</span> Let's look at the example of Toyota.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In Japan</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">, </span>Toyota enjoys the economic benefits of universal health care<span style="font-size: 14pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because of universal health care, Toyota's production costs are $1,400 lower per vehicle than </span><span class="DebateUnderline">the cost </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">for American manufacturers.</span>That translates directly into competitive advantage, as Toyota makes $2,400 more per car than its U.S. counterparts. Back in the United States, GM has said that the cost of providing health care for its workers adds between $1,500 and $2,000 to the price tag of every vehicle it sells. Alan S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blinder, an economist at Princeton</span>, has <span style="font-size: 12pt;">estimated </span><span class="DebateUnderline">that</span>between 28 million and <span style="font-size: 12pt;">42 million American jobs are at risk of being moved "offshore" in the near future, as technology reduces the friction of moving abroad</span>. What can we do to keep U.S. automakers and other manufacturers in the country? Could instituting universal health care help?

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Solvency: Auto companies no longer provide health care for their employees because the private sector is eliminated, and all citizens are covered by the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MOHIT</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Behzad Mohit,: </span>//[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-behzad-mohit/universal-health-care-can_b_201154.html|//Universal Health Care Can Save Our Economy and Keep 1.7 million Jobs in the U.S.: Part III//]]//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-behzad-mohit/universal-health-care-can_b_201154.html (5/11/09)</span>//
<span style="font-family: Times;">Now let's extrapolate this approach to other sectors of the economy. As of 2008, annual health care spending in the United States reached $2.1 trillion or 16 percent of the GDP. Most of that money -- about 54 percent -- comes from the private sector. That's </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">$1.13 trillion dollars that American companies are spending on health care</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> each and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">every year</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. This is more than the national budgets of France, Canada and the UK combined. If that isn't </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a drag on our competitiveness</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, what is? </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">With</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> a </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">universal health care</span><span style="font-family: Times;">system, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">companies would keep that money</span><span style="font-family: Times;">and would have a healthier and more productive work force. If we implement the universal health care system, other economic benefits would also ensue. For example, job lock occurs when people stay at their current job solely for the health care benefits paid by their employers. One study showed that, in California alone, in 2002 job lock affected 179,000 people, with $772 million in foregone productivity.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Collapse of the auto industry would cause the economy to collapse – cascade effects that would cause massive instability.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">GIOKARIS</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[John </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">Giokaris</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, March </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">2012</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, Loyola University Chicago Political Science & Journalism, policymic, “President Obama and George W. Bush Were Right to Bailout U.S. Auto Industry,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.policymic.com/articles/4086/president-obama-and-george-w-bush-were-right-to-bailout-u-s-auto-industry]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">] </span>
While it certainly would’ve made economic sense <span style="font-size: 11pt;">to allow the auto industry to</span> suffer through the recession instead of continuing its infinite drain on the U.S. treasury, the consequences of such a <span style="font-size: 11pt;">collapse would have been devastating to America</span>. Like the bank bailouts, while most people may not have liked it, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">allowing the auto companies to fail</span> at that time <span style="font-size: 11pt;">would have contributed to a second Great Depression</span>. Lawmakers are always stuck between balancing out sound economics with social instability, but the unpopularity of both will always take the higher priority with public office holders. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">The American auto industry was</span> once <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the centerpiece of the U.S. economy</span>. While that’s no longer the case, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">it</span> still <span style="font-size: 11pt;">remains important. It employs large numbers</span>of people <span style="font-size: 11pt;">and purchases supplies from</span> literally <span style="font-size: 11pt;">thousands of U.S. companies</span>. There can be endless debates of why the U.S. auto industry is in such trouble — from the decisions and makeup of management, to the unions that control much of the workforce, to the cost structures inherent in producing cars in the American economy. Whatever the reasons are, it left it woefully unprepared for the 2008 economic recession. Recessions reveal weak businesses and destroy them, freeing up resources for new enterprises. They occur when, as is inevitable, inefficiencies and irrationalities build up in the financial and economic system. The resulting economic downturn imposes a harsh discipline that destroys the inefficient, encourages efficiencies, and opens the doors to new businesses using new technologies and business models. The year 2001 smashed the dot com technology sector in the U.S., but that opened the door for Google Inc. The business cycle works well, but the <span style="font-size: 11pt;">human costs can be daunting. The collapse</span> of inefficient businesses <span style="font-size: 11pt;">leaves workers without jobs, investors without money, and society less stable</span> than before. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thepain needed to rectify every country’s economy is enormous.</span> Each country is prepared to accept a high degree of economic inefficiency to avoid, or at least postpone, the reckoning. The reckoning always comes, but for most of us, later is better than sooner. Economic rationality takes a back seat to social necessity and political common sense. The last recession had hit the auto industry hard. The ultimate reason is the same one that destroyed the U.S. steel industry a generation ago: Given U.S. cost structures, producing commodity products is best left to countries with lower wage rates, while more expensive U.S. labor is deployed in more specialized products requiring greater expertise. Thus, there is still steel production in the U.S., but it is specialty steel production, not commodity steel. Allowing this to happen to the U.S. auto industry sounds easy, but the <span style="font-size: 11pt;">transition </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">would be a bloodletting</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span> Current employees of both the automakers and suppliers would be devastated. Institutions that have lent money to the automakers would suffer massive or total losses. Pensioners might lose pensions and health care benefits, and an entire region of <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the U.S</span>.— the industrial Midwest — <span style="font-size: 11pt;">would be devastated</span>. Something stronger would grow in its place eventually, but not soon enough for many of the current employees, shareholders and creditors. Policymakers had a decision to make. If the automakers were allowed to fail, their drain on the economy would’ve ended; the pain would’ve been shorter (if not more intense); and new industries would emerge more quickly. But though their drain on the economy would end, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the impact of the automakers’ failure on the economy would’ve been seismic. Unemployment would surge, as would bankruptcies</span> of many auto suppliers. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Defaults on loans would hit the credit markets</span>. In the Midwest, home prices would plummet and foreclosures would skyrocket. And <span style="font-size: 10pt;">God only knows</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> what the impact on equity markets would be</span>.

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support - also causes great power transitions.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">ROYAL</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Jedediah Royal, 2010, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-14]</span>
Less intuitive is how <span style="font-size: 11pt;">periods of economic decline </span>may<span style="font-size: 11pt;">increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson’s (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next</span>. As such, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power </span>(see also Gilpin, 10981) that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation</span>(Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power</span> (Werner, 1999). Seperately, Polllins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium, and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland’s (1996,2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that ‘future expectation of trade’ is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behavior of states. He argues that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations</span>. However, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">if the expectation of future trade decline</span>, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the likelihood for conflict increases , as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources</span>. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations</span> either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states. Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlationbetween internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn</span>. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other</span>. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002, p.89). Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. ‘<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Diversionary theory’ suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to create a ‘rally round the flag’ effect.</span>Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997) Miller (1999) and Kisanganie and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">periods of weak economic performance</span>in the United States, and thus weak presidential popularity, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force</span>.

===Pharmaceuticals Advantage=== 

<span class="Tags">A. Pharmaceutical companies spend more on promotion than research.</span>
<span class="Tags">GAGNON</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Gagnon M-A, Lexchin J (2008) The Cost of Pushing Pills: A New Estimate of Pharmaceutical Promotion Expenditures in the United States. PLoS Med 5(1): e1. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.0050001]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">From this new estimate, it appears that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">pharmaceutical companies spend</span><span style="font-family: Times;">almost </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">twiceas much on promotion as </span><span style="font-family: Times;">they do on</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> R&D.</span><span style="font-family: Times;">These numbers clearly show how promotion predominates over R&D in the pharmaceutical industry, contrary to the industry's claim</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times;">While </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the amount spent on promotion</span><span style="font-family: Times;">is not in itself a confirmation of Kefauver's depiction of the pharmaceutical industry, it </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">confirms the public image of a marketing-driven industry and provides an important argument to petition in favor of transforming the</span><span style="font-family: Times;">workings of the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">industryin the direction of more research and less promotion.</span>

<span class="Tags">B. The plan prohibits pharmaceutical companies from lobbying.</span>
<span class="Tags">MOHIT</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Behzad Mohit “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">All upper management positions in the agency, including members of the board of overseers, would have term limits and salary caps. This cap would not be any higher than that of a senator or the highest paid government employee, i.e., the president. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">There would be </span><span style="font-family: Times;">strict</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">prohibition against </span><span style="font-family: Times;">decision makers and upper management</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">employees of the insurance agency being employed or benefiting as shareholders or consultants for any activity directly or indirectly involved in health care, e.g., pharmaceutical companies</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, medical equipment companies, biotech, lobbying groups, etc. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">This prohibition would</span><span style="font-family: Times;">be for a minimum of seven years and would </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">apply to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> family members, trustees, and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">anyoneinvolved with policies or upper level execution of the health agency’s policies, or negotiating or awarding of contracts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, pharmaceutical companies stop advertising and lobbying and the plan eliminates promotion spending.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MOHIT continues</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Pharmaceutical companies’ expenses would </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">also</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">drop substantially as these companies would no longer need to advertise</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">products</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">or lobby. This </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">of course</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">would decrease </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the __o__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">verhead</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> incurred by the pharmaceutical companies. Doctors would no longer benefit financially from prescribing medications. Additionally this approach would limit the abuse of prescription drugs and ill effects of overmedicating the patients</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">C. The cost of developing one drug is $4 billion. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">HERPER</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: left;">[Matthew Herper, Forbes reporter covering science and medicine, “The Truly Staggering Cost Of Inventing New Drugs”, Forbes, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewherper/2012/02/10/the-truly-staggering-cost-of-inventing-new-drugs/2/]], 2/10/2012]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">But as Bernard Munos of the InnoThink Center for Research In Biomedical Innovation has noted, just</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">adjusting </span><span style="font-family: Times;">that estimate</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">for current failure rates results in an estimate of $4 billion in research dollars spent for every drug </span><span style="font-family: Times;">that is</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">approved. But Munos showed me another figure, where he divided each drug company’s R&D budget by the average number of drugs approved. This was far more dramatic.There are lots of expenses</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> here. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A single clinical trial can cost $100 million</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> at the high end, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and the</span><span style="font-family: Times;">combined </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">costof manufacturing and clinical testing for some drugs has added up to $1 billion</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. But the main expense is failure. AstraZeneca does badly by this measure because it has had so few new drugs hit the market. Eli Lilly spent roughly the same amount on R&D, but got twice as many new medicines approved over that 15 year period, and so spent just $4.5 billion per drug.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Drug companies will have 3 times as much money to spend on developing drugs after cutting promotional costs, which will lead to increased innovation. Drug companies will be forced to compete for business solely through developing successful drugs, so they will spend money saved from promotion on R&D.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">The plan controls internal links to innovation because it prevents falsified research.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MOHIT</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Behzad Mohit “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Times;">pharmaceutical companies would be discouraged by law from</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">influencing medical education and</span><span style="font-family: Times;">doing made-to-order research</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">. Medical researchers would be prohibited from owning shares in or earning consultant fees from the corporations that fund their research. The government (and the health agency, if funds allow), would fund the bulk of medical research and education. The</span><span style="font-family: Times;">pharmaceutical companies</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">and other for-profit corporations</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __would fund research only through mechanisms approved by the National Institutes of Health__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">, such as a blind trust mechanism to avoid the researchers or universities or stand-alone research organizations being beholden to companies for grant renewals; thus, </span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">pharmaceutical companies</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">, medical equipment and device companies,</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __would not be able to influence the outcome of researchers’ work. Pharmaceutical__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">and biotech</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __companies fund__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">about</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __60 percent of__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">clinical</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __studies__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">in the United States</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __with vested__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">monetary</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __interest in the results__. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">Some</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __companies__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">even</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __withhold__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">or delay</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> __the publication of information that would show their drugs to be ineffective.__ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">In many cases those drugs are no more effective than a placebo. This is true even in the cases of major drugs like Prozac and Zoloft. Private interests have far too great an influence on how Americans spend their money on pharmaceuticals—roughly $160 billion each year. It is embarrassing how many of the faculty members and deans of our best medical schools are paid large sums of money and other benefits by pharmaceutical companies, biotech companies and other vendors to do research to order. (See “Harvard Medical School in Ethics Quandary,” New York Times, March 3, 2009. 17) Obviously, the health of our people should be in the hands of those who are guided by the peoples’ best interests, not the profit motive. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">The probability of a viral pandemic is very high.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">ZAMBON</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Professor Maria Zambon, Virologist and head of the Health Protection Agency's Influenza Laboratory. April 13, 2005. “What a Way to go” __The Guardian__ http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2005/apr/14/research.science2]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">"With</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">in the last century we have had four major flu epidemics</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, along </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">with HIV and Sars</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Major pandemics sweep the world every century, and</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> it is inevitable that at least one will occur in the future</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. At </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> moment the most serious concern is </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">H5 avian</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">flu</span><span style="font-family: Times;">enza</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> in chickens</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in south-east Asia. If this virus learns to transmit from human to human then it </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">could sweep rapidly around the world.</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> The 1918 influenza outbreak caused 20m deaths in just one year: more than all the people killed in the first world war. A similar outbreak now could have a perhaps more devastating impact. "It is not in the interests of a virus to kill all of its hosts, so a virus is unlikely to wipe out the human race, but it could cause a serious setback for a number of years. We can never be completely prepared for what nature will do: nature is the ultimate bioterrorist." </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[the] Chance of a viral pandemic</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in the next 70 years: </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[is] Very high.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">F. Pharmaceutical research develops drugs that prevent pandemics and increase health. BANDOW 05</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: left;">[Doug Bandow, March 27, 2005. Senior fellow at the Cato Institute and a former special assistant to President Reagan. “A strong pharmaceutical industry is the best defense against pandemics” __U~T__ http://www.utsandiego.com/uniontrib/20050327/news_lz1e27bandow.html]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Diseases like </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">SARS and avian flu</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, which have proved resistant to drugs commonly used to fight influenza viruses, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">demonstrate</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> how </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">we all benefit from</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> profitable drugmakers and abundant </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">pharmaceutical research</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Although governments have an important role to play in fighting any disease pandemic, </span><span class="CardChar">necessary for developing any effective treatment and putting into mass production any vaccine or other medicine is private industry. Indeed, the initial fight against SARS focused on finding an existing medicine that work[s]ed. Laboratories screened some 2,000 federally approved and experimental drugs to see if they were useful in fighting SARS. Gurinder Shahi, a doctor in Singapore, explained: "Given how little we know about SARS and the reality that it is killing people, it is justified for us to be daring and innovative in coming up with solutions." Daring innovation is most likely in a competitive, profit-driven market. For instance, Pfizer worked with the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to test 350 compounds developed as part of an earlier project to cure the common cold. NIAID also collaborated with the California biotech company Vical Inc. to test a new, experimental vaccine that has protected mice from the disease. Adventis and Merck as well as laboratories around the world began working to develop vaccines. Indeed, most</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> of today's </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">medicines exist</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> only </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">because</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> there is a bevy </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">of sophisticated pharmaceutical companies devoted to finding drugs</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> to heal the sick. Progress has been particularly dramatic in recent years. For instance, two decades ago not one drug was available to fight AIDS. Today 74 have been approved and another 83 are in development. Equally significant has been the impact of pharmaceuticals on the elderly. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">People not only live longer; they live better</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. And no small reason is the explosion of new prescription drugs. More than 800 medicines are in development to combat diseases of aging. The benefits of such advances are obvious. Columbia University's Frank Lichtenberg figures that fully 40 percent of the increase in average lifespan between 1986 and 2000 is due to new drugs. In many cases medicines directly forestall death. The impacts of other drugs on patients are more subtle, but still important. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">There's less pain,</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> greater self-esteem, less nausea, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">improved well-being</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, and even </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">lower</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> health care </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">expenditures for other treatments</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. And these benefits are shared by families and care-givers as well as the ill. One important research area is to control the adverse impacts of other drugs. Reported Daniel Rosenberg in The Wall Street Journal, "Now, venture capitalists are focusing on the side effect treatment market, funding companies at the cutting edge of such research." There is nausea, obviously, as well as other, equally serious conditions. For instance, oral mucosities involves sores in the mouth that makes eating, drinking and talking difficult. Neuropathy is a strange feeling in arms and legs that can become debilitating. "Side effects can be very serious, and as painful as the pain of the disease itself. If people are unable to eat or swallow, they find it difficult to continue the treatment," explained Rosenberg. But this progress hasn't come cheap. Last year, the American industry alone devoted $38 billion to R&D. According to a 2003 study published in The Journal of Health Economics: "Between the time research begins to develop a new prescription medicine until it receives approval from the FDA to market the drug in the U.S., a drug company typically spends $802 million" over 10 to 15 years. That's nearly four times the expense in 1987. Active in the fight are not just industry giants such as Pfizer and Merck. AVI BioPharma, Inc., a Portland, Ore. biotechnology firm, began looking at SARS after having worked on the West Nile virus. Small firms backed by venture capital are focusing on the side effect market since "In the past, drug companies haven't seen a lot of money in treating side effects that only affect a minority of cancer patients," reported Rosenberg. Yet at a time when the world may have narrowly escaped a potential viral epidemic in the form of SARS – and faces the prospect of biological terrorism – the drugmakers are under siege in America. Rhetorically, they have been lumped with the tobacco companies by demagogic politicians, as if firms which make products that heal are the same as those which make products that kill. The explosion of liability lawsuits is another problem. Henry Miller of the Hoover Institution points out that the number of vaccine makers has fallen by almost three-fourths since 1967. The basic problem, he notes, is that "compared to therapeutic drugs, vaccines traditionally offer low return on investment but high exposure to legal liability." This is the major reason we were left so vulnerable to the failure of Chiron, the British firm that was producing flu vaccine. Underlying the widespread political assault is a panoply of distorted and even false claims. The industry is not uniquely profitable and its returns are broadly commensurate with the cost of raising capital. Complaints about rising drug expenditures are common, even though people routinely spend more for a dinner out than on a typical prescription. Moreover, the primary reasons total drug outlays are rising is not because of price hikes on existing medicines, but because Americans are buying new products and using more old ones. Other myths abound. The drugmakers actually spend more on R&D than marketing. They devote far more money to finding drugs than does the National Institutes of Health. What makes the concerted assault against pharmaceutical concerns so perverse is that Washington claims it understands the importance of pharmaceutical research. Dianne Murphy, director of the FDA's Office of Counterterrorism & Pediatric Drug Development, said of drugmakers working on bioterrorism: "we want them to come in and talk to us when the drug is barely a glimmer in a scientist's eye." Yet Washington's threat to void the patent for Cipro in the midst of the 2001 anthrax scare was a warning to firms that no good deed is likely to go unpunished. Indeed, the better the deed (more effectively dealing with a deadlier disease), the greater the likely punishment (losing the hard-won return on the underlying research). The United States is essentially the last pharmaceutical free market among leading industrialized states. Price and use controls pervade Europe and other industrialized states, including Canada and Japan. In Europe, observed Wall Street Journal reporter Stephen D. Moore, "Innovative cancer drugs have gotten bogged down even earlier in the system." He adds: "Many European countries also attempt to restrict demand after new medicines reach pharmacy shelves. Drugs can be saddled with tight prescribing rules to limit consumption. Patients across Europe are fighting for improved access to older drugs such as Taxol, the world's top-selling anticancer drug." Thus, the vast majority of drug innovation derives from the American market. That will end, however, if government arbitrarily seizes – directly, through domestic restrictions, or indirectly, through "reimportation" of American drugs from countries with price controls – the fruit of industry R&D, thereby cutting industry prices and profits. Investment will fall. Which will mean less research and development. And fewer life-saving products. Life is uncertain and arbitrary; SARS demonstrated that flying on the wrong plane and sitting next to the wrong person could become a death sentence. And potentially many more people will die if new, even deadlier infectious diseases emerge, whether avian flu or something else. Yet the resources are available to prevent or ameliorate any such outbreak. Writes Dr. Joseph DiMasi of Tufts University: "a rapid expansion of scientific discoveries and technologic advances has given the pharmaceutical industry unprecedented opportunities to innovate. Combinatorial chemistry, high-throughput screening and genomics have provided a technologic platform that is highly conducive to growth in innovation. However, given typical lengths for the drug discovery and development processes, most of the fruits of these efforts will likely not be realized for years to come." Reaping those </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">long-term benefits to protect people worldwide</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> will</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> require</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the aid of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">America's</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> much-vilified </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">pharmaceutical industry</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. If critics succeed in disabling the drugmakers, we will all be at risk. It's time those who benefit from industry research stopped treating drugmakers as the enemy.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">G. And, pandemics cause mass death. GREGER 06</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Michael Greger, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Society of the U.S. & Graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine. "Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching." 2006.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A pandemic today</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the world’s greatest medical catastrophe. In 1918 we were, as a nation and as a people, much more self-sufficient.565 With the corporate triumph of free trade, just-in-time inventory management and global supply chains now characterize all major economies and business sectors.566 Economic analysts predict the pandemic would cause a global economic collapse unprecedented in modern history.567 </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">With the global population</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> at an historical high, this</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> could lead to unprecedented human suffering</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. A short 100,000 years ago, all members of the human race lived in eastern Africa.568 The 6.5 billion people alive today represent roughly one out of every nine people who have ever inhabited the Earth.569 In 1918, cities like London were smaller, with just over than one million residents. Today there are 26 megacities in the world, each with more than ten million people.570 With this kind of tinder, experts like the WHO’s Klaus Stöhr predict the pandemic will “explosively” hit world populations “like a flash flood.”571 “</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> rapidity of the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">spread of influenza</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> throughout a country</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> is only limited by</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the rapidity of the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">means of transportation</span><span style="font-family: Times;">,” explained the 1918 New York State Health Commissioner.572 Back then, the fastest way to cross the world was by steamship.573 In the past, a trip around the world took a year; today we and our viruses can circle the globe in 24 hours.574 The number of human globe-trotters now exceeds one billion people a year.575 AIDS left Africa on an aircraft. So too may H5N1 leave Asia, only a plane ride away. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Between</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> record </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">population</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> levels </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the unprecedented current speed, volume, and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">reach of global air travel</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">any</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> pandemic </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">virus could wreak </span><span style="font-family: Times;">unparalleled</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> havoc</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.576 H5N1, though, promises to be more than just any pandemic virus. In all of his more than 40 years working with influenza viruses, Robert Webster can state unequivocally, “This is the worst flu virus I have ever seen or worked with or read about.”577 At a congressional briefing, Gregory A. Poland of the Mayo Clinic and the Infectious Diseases Society of America tried to get members of Congress to imagine the unimaginable—an H5N1 pandemic. “I want to emphasize[s] the certainty that a pandemic will occur,” he began. “When this happens, time will be described, for those left living, as before and after the pandemic.”578 The top virologist in Russia attempted to tally the worst-case scenario potential human death count: “</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Up to one billion people could die</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> around the whole world </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">in six months</span><span style="font-family: Times;">…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Additionally, this means I control the internal link to the neg disads because the neg world prevents the production of drugs that are key to the health of individuals.</span>**

===Businesses Advantage=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Lack of universal health care destroys business creation- affirming solves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">FAIRLIE et al 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Robert Fairlie, Kanika Kapur, and Susan Gates. "Is Employer-Based Health Insurance A Barrier To Entrepreneurship?" Journal of Health Economics 30 (Jan. 2011) 146-162.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">To address concerns that workers who have employer-provided health insurance may be less likely to start businesses because they already have a job with a good compensation package and high job quality, we first estimate difference-in-difference models based on the approach taken in the previous literature [but] (e.g. Holtz-Eakin, Penrod, and Rosen, 1996; Madrian, 1994). Identification of "entrepreneurship lock" arises from the interaction between having employerprovided health insurance and potential demand for health care. Using this first approach, we find some evidence that employer-based health insurance limits business creation, especially for men, but the evidence is not consistent across different measures of potential demand for health care. To improve the comparability of the experimental and control groups, we limit the sample to only individuals who have employer-based health insurance. Identification then comes from the interaction between having a spouse with employer-based health insurance and potential demand for health care. For men, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">we find consistent evidence of a</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> larger </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">negative effect of health insurance demand on</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">business creation probability for those without</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> spousal </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">coverage</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> than for those with spousal coverage. Several </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">robustness checks that</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> further </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">refine the comparability between experimental</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and controls </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">groups provide similar results</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Our estimates suggest that "</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">entrepreneurship lock</span><span style="font-family: Times;">" for men </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">is just over 1 percent</span><span style="font-family: Times;">age point </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">relative to an annual </span><span style="font-family: Times;">base business </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">creation rate of 3 percent</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. We also find evidence of entrepreneurship lock for women, however, the coefficients are not precisely estimated in a couple of specifications. We also take a new approach in the literature to examining the question of whether employer-based health insurance discourages business creation by examining the discontinuity created at age 65 through the qualification for Medicare. Using a novel procedure of identifying age in months from matched monthly CPS data, we compare the probability of business ownership among male workers in the months just before turning age 65 and in the months just after turning age 65. Business </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">ownership rates increase from 24</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.6</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">% for those</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> just </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">under</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> age </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">65 to 28.0% for those</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> just </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">over age 65</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, whereas we find no change in business ownership rates from just before to just after for the remaining ages in our sample of workers ages 55-75. We estimate several regression discontinuity models to confirm these results. As expected because of the small change in actual age and the orthogonality of included controls, we find a similarly large and statistically significant increase in business ownership rates in the age 65 birth month when the worker qualifies for Medicare. These results are not sensitive to several alternative samples, dependent variables, and age functions, and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">we do not find evidence</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> from previous studies and additional specifications </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">that other factors</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> such as retirement, partial - 47 - retirement, social security and pension eligibility </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">are responsible</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> for the increase in business ownership rates in the month the individual turns 65 and qualifies for Medicare. Estimates from the difference-in-difference and regression discontinuity models both provide evidence that the U.S. emphasis on employer-provided health insurance may be limiting the creation of small businesses and influencing the decisions of workers regarding whether and when to start businesses. Our </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">findings</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> are consistent with the argument that relatively low </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">rates of business ownership</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in the United States </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">may be due to less comprehensive health</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> insurance </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">coverage</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> than in other wealthy countries (Schmidt and Lane, 2009) </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">expanding</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> health insurance </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">coverage will encourage</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> business </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">creation</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Gruber, 2009). The recently enacted PPACA stipulates that individuals will be able to purchase insurance from insurance exchanges. Insurers will not be allowed to have pre-existing condition exclusions or premiums priced on the basis of health status. These features of PPACA may encourage business creation by providing potential entrepreneurs with a health insurance option should they leave their current employment. However, it remains unclear what the relative value of that option will be. Because PPACA exempts existing health plans from certain regulations, a disparity between the value of health coverage through the exchanges and the value of coverage through some existing employer plans is likely to persist for some time (Eibner et al., 2010). Moreover, the value of insurance provided through the exchanges will be influenced by the way in which states choose to structure them. PPACA will be phased in over the next few years with the availability of a high-risk pool for the purchase of insurance in 2010 and ultimately the option of insurance exchanges in 2014. Investigating the impact of these changes on the health insurance market and entrepreneurship is an important area for future research.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Prefer my evidence- robustness checks on data through different experimental groups that provide similar results- increases chances the conclusion shows a causal relationship between expanding health care and business creation.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">The brink is now- U.S. economy is about to collapse- keeping jobs up is key.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">DAVIS AND WOLF 11/1</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Susan Davis and Richard Wolf, USA TODAY. November 1st, 2012. "A Mess Awaits the Next President."</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Confrontations abroad. A divided Congress at home. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A budget stalemate</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> on the horizon that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">threatens another recession</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Come Nov. 7, President Obama or President-elect Mitt Romney might be forgiven if he pines for the good old days of campaign rallies and negative ads. The world won't wait for either man to enjoy his victory celebration. The bad blood and battle lines between Democrats and Republicans are likely to spill over rather swiftly from politics to policy matters. And </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">only 55 days will remain before</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> a convergence of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">tax increases and spending cuts threatens to throw the</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> slowly healing </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. economy back into recession</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. "If you watch cable news on any station the day after the election, all you're going to hear is 'countdown to the fiscal cliff,'" says Erskine Bowles, who co-chaired a fiscal commission that recommended nearly $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years. INTERACTIVE: Electoral Vote Tracker Without action, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">almost every tax cut enacted since 2001 is set to expire at the end of the year</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. The resulting $500 billion tax hike would raise the average American household's tax burden by $3,500, according to the non-partisan Tax Policy Center. The first $110 billion of a planned $1.2 trillion in spending cuts over 10 years to reduce the deficit also would begin at the start of the new year. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has warned that, left unchanged, those defense cuts would threaten the nation's security. A new or re-elected president confronted by an immediate crisis isn't unprecedented, of course. Obama came into office four years ago facing an economic cataclysm that became the deepest recession in 70 years. Bill Clinton was welcomed with a budget mess. Ronald Reagan walked into the Iran hostage crisis. Richard Nixon was immediately immersed in the Vietnam War. The comparison extends deep into history: Franklin Roosevelt faced the Great Depression; Abraham Lincoln, the onset of the Civil War. But </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the next president</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">is likely to face a</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> deeply </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">divided country and Congress</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. If today's polls are accurate, a narrow victory will not provide an electoral mandate. He will be forced to reach across the aisle for help in tackling these daunting issues. "In terms of an environment for transition, this is pretty much the worst I've seen," says Paul Light, professor of public service at New York University. "It's going to be knock-down, drag-out from Nov. 7 on." At the same time, the president or president-elect will have a slew of personnel moves to make, including Cabinet-level nominations that need Senate confirmation — in a Senate that will likely be nearly divided. Romney would have an administration to populate. Obama would need to replace key people, led by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, who plan to step down. And the world won't stop revolving while the next president gets his sea legs. Potential </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">crises in the Middle East</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, Iran's slow march toward a nuclear bomb </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the enduring </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">global economic slowdown will demand attention</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> even </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">as</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">domestic budget</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> impasse </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">dominates the agenda</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Staring at a 'fiscal cliff' The pre-eminent challenge is finding a path to reduce the nation's debt and deficits while stabilizing the economic recovery. A looming calendar of expirations and automatic triggers — </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the "fiscal cliff" — threatens</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> economic and budgetary </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">mayhem</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> if Washington can't forge compromise in the wake of the election. "You could see (the economy) slowed by 3% next year. You could see as many </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">as 2 million people lose their jobs.</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> You could see unemployment go to 9%," Bowles warns. "Sometimes a crisis propels action in the Congress." </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Economic collapse leads to global conflicts between global powers- unemployment is the internal link.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MEAD 94</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations. “ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE SEMINAR AND NEWS CONFERENCE REGARDING G-7 JOBS CONFERENCE IN DETROIT,” Federal News Service, March 11, 1994.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Okay, well, as I listened to people talk this morning, I was very happy to hear that we're saying that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">unemployment is</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> more than </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a national problem</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and more than a simple economic problem, that the question of mass unemployment concentrated primarily among younger people and having an inevitable consequence of falling wages and work opportunities for the general population is also, in the long run, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a threat to the</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> democratic </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">legitimacy of </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Western</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> governments</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. This is not simply a technocratic, economic problem that we want to adjust 2 percent here or 1 percent there. This really goes to the heart of the question of the long-term survival of a lot of the values that we have and a lot of the institutions that we care about. I'd like to add to that that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">unemployment is</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> not un</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">related to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the question of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">world peace</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. We've had today hanging over us a couple of times mentions of hundreds of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">millions of people</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in developing countries who </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">would like to join</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">advanced</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> industrial </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">democracies in their standards of living</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. We've spoken of the former communist states of Europe, all of whom are looking for a place at this table. Our modern economic system originated after the second world war with some very important insights, where people </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">looked at why did the world get into World War</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> II. And </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a big answer was the mass unemployment of the '30s that led to fascism</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, that led to a climate of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">international confrontation</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, and ultimately led to war. And the idea that </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">full employment was central to concept of building peace after the</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> second world </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">war</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> Today we tend to say that if you can get full employment at all it will follow free trade, if you -- you know, except for low interest rates and GATT there is essentially no Western program today for jobs. This is putting the cart before the horse in the view of the people who sort of originally designed the post-war system, where they said that free trade was actually a consequence of full employment rather than a cause of it. And I think you can still see that in that the ink is hardly dry on the Uruguay Round agreement when the United States and Japan are firing opening volleys in a trade war. So we are talking about the viability of our democratic systems of government and we are talking about world peace when we are talking about unemployment. What is so interesting is the -- and alarming, is the enormous gap between the gravity and intractability of the problem and the very small scale measures being proposed to deal with it. I suspect that we will see out of this job conference a very few recommendations coming forward on improving the efficiency of labor, sort of marginal improvements, and there will be essentially a throwing up of the hands in despair about this thing. All of us have spoken more or less this morning about the need for some kind of G-7 cooperation, international cooperation here. We've been talking about this for a long time, really since the Bretton Woods system broke down in the early 1970s. There have been a whole series of efforts to create some kind of international economic cooperation among the leading economies, and they have generally ended either in disaster or in platitude -- sometimes in both. I think there is a reason for this; the reason is the fallacy of composition, a fallacy of composition similar to the one that Keynes looked at, talking about how a nation can save itself into poverty, that when times are bad what makes sense for the individual household or firm is to cut back on expenses, to draw in your horns; if you're a firm to defray any new investments, and so on. This exacerbates the national problem as people stop consuming and investing. In the same way, when you have a difficult global economic climate, it makes sense for each country to try to bolster up its own finances, its own balance of trade. We've seen plenty of competitive devaluation. Indeed, here we are sitting in the international capital of competitive devaluation, widely considered in the '30s to be the most evil of all protectionist schemes, today endorsed and praised to the skies by people who enjoy reputations, even among financial journalists, if I can say so, as free traders. Competitive devaluation is a tariff, it is an attack on free trade. And yet somehow today this has become a normal part of international economic planning. What is needed? Just as Keynes argued that you needed a macroeconomic policy agency looking at what is good for the entire national economy, you also need to have agencies in the world economy, in the global economy, whose mandate is for the health of the overall global economy. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the EBRD, the Inter-American Development Bank can all, I think, play a constructive role in this, although they need to have somewhat larger resources and to take a broader view of their mandates in some cases. But I think we need to clearly get beyond this notion of ever six months finance ministers sit down and issue a platitudinous communique saying, you know, basically all bad things should be reduced and all good things should be increased, and then we all go home. If we can't provide institutional, ongoing agencies for international cooperation, then we might as well just write the whole thing off. People have spoken about ideas like a global central bank. I would simply like to suggest here, rather than prescribing a lot of things, that there are ways in which a more demand-oriented, expansionary-oriented program can also be a more market-driven program and can reduce trade tensions as well as employment tensions among advanced countries. To give you just a quick example, that instead of the advanced countries spending their time squabbling with each other over agricultural subsidies, it might be interesting to look at consumption subsidies for developing countries for hungry people, underfed people in the developing world. The same money now spent, essentially wasted, on agricultural subsidies for producers, if pumped onto the consumption side of the equation could reduce regulation, free up agricultural trade, and even potentially raise incomes of farmers in developed and developing countries. There are ways in which institutions with a global mandate and whose basic charter is concern for the health and growth of </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the overall global economicsystem can relieve us of</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> some of our problems and address even some of our particularly pressing </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">political problems</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, such as </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the chaos</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and desperation </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">that is threatening</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> to turn Eastern Europe into an arena of, God forbid, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">nuclear war</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, but to make Yugoslavia, to make the Bosnian mess look like nothing, like</span>

===Quality Control Advantage=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Preventable medical errors are the #6 cause of death in US.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">NATIONAL COALITION ON HEALTH CARE</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[National Coalition on Health Care, The National Coalition on Health Care is a non-partisan organization of organizations — made up of roughly 85 of America’s large and small businesses, unions, civil rights and advocacy groups, health care providers, associations of religious congregations, pension and health funds, and groups representing patients and consumers, “Containing Costs and Avoiding Tax Increases While Improving Quality: Affordable Coverage and High Value Care”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nchc.org/sites/default/files/resources/PR%2010-23-09%20NCHC%20WHITE%20PAPER%20IDENTIFIES%20OVER%20$1%20TRILLION%20IN%20COST-SAVINGS%20Executive%20Summary.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, October 22, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">A condition of Coalition support for robust cost containment strategies is that they always be linked directly to improving access to care, affordable coverage and the improvement of health care quality and safety. The interconnected nature of these issues is evident in </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Institute of Medicine </span><span style="font-family: Times;">(IOM) data suggesting that excess U.S. health care expenditures in 2009 alone will cost $810 billion and in other research, which estimates that 30 to 40 percent of all direct health care outlays are the result of poor quality care, consisting primarily of overuse, underuse, and waste. IOM </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">has</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">estimated that 98,000 lives are lost annually due to preventable medical errors—the sixth leading cause of death in America. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The IOM’s methodology is explained:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[http://www.md-jd.info/abstract/Institute-of-Medicine-Report.html#IOM]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Two</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">large studies</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">one</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">conducted</span><span style="font-family: Times;">in </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://md-jd.info/abstract/iom-00.htm#utah|Colorado and Utah]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and the other</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">in </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://md-jd.info/abstract/iom-00.htm#i|New York]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">, found that adverse events occurred in</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">2.9 and</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">3.7 percent of hospitalizations</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">respectively. In Colorado and Utah hospitals, 6.6 percent of adverse events led to death, as compared with</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">13.6 percent [of adverse events led to death] in New York hospitals</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. In both of these studies,</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">over half of these adverse events resulted from medical errors and could have been prevented</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.   When extrapolated to the over 33.6 million admissions to U.S. hospitals in 1997, the results of the study in Colorado and Utah imply that at least 44,000 Americans die each year as a result of medical errors. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The results of the New York Study suggest the number [of Americans who die each year as a result of medical errors] may be as high as 98,000.</span><span style="font-family: Times;">Even when using the lower estimate, deaths due to medical errors exceed the number attributable to the i8th-leading cause of death. More people die in a given year as a result of medical errors than from motor vehicle accidents (43,458), breast cancer (42,297), or AIDS (16,516).</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. The plan solves for the harms caused by medical errors through an incentive system of health care providers.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MOHIT</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Behzad Mohit “A Disruptive Innovation” (2009-04-01)]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Doctors, nurses and other service providers</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">would be given an identity number used for</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the purpose of unbiased evaluation by their peers. They would be evaluated</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">for their performance</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">according not only to standard of care guidelines, but by feedback from patients as well as other professionals in their field, e.g. by other doctors, nurses, etc. The evaluatingdoctors and other professionalsthus would be blind to the identity of thedoctor, nurse or other provider that they evaluate. This approach maintains objectivityand avoids cronyism </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">during evaluations.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The final evaluation score will be the result of a combination of patient satisfaction and objective peer review evaluation. This way if a doctor performs the average standard of care(e.g., on a scale of one to 100, scores between 65 and 85), that doctor [they] would receivehis or her respective compensation; if thecombination of patient and professional evaluations is positive(e.g., is over 85), thedoctor, nurse or provider__<span class="DebateUnderline">would be paid a bonus</span>__either quarterly or yearly. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">If the performance is evaluated to be below average, the provider’s compensation may drop</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">. Performance below a certain level of quality(e.g. 50) would result in adoctor or provider</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">being put on probation or dropped from the program</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">. Providers would be free to opt out of the system but would not be paid through the agency or any other insurance program, except for cash payments by their private patients. Some doctors or providers may choose a partial contract with the agency and work outside the system for cash paying patients. Any conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest between contracting providers and patient care would result in cancellation of contract with the agency. Furthermore, the evaluation would be strictly guided by what is best for the patient, not what is the least costly care (as it is now prevalent in many HMOs). </span>


===Coverage Advantage=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">A. </span>****<span style="font-family: Times;">There is a clear link between health insurance and mortality. 3 warrants: 1. better care when in hospital 2. preventative services 3. people don’t delay care</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">IOM</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">(IOM, “Care Without Coverage: Too Little, Too Late” The Institute of Medicine (IOM) is an independent, nonprofit organization thatworks outside of government to provide unbiased and authoritative advice to decision makers and the public, [[http://www.iom.edu/~/media/Files/Report%20Files/2003/Care-Without-Coverage-Too-Little-Too-Late/Uninsured2FINAL.pdf]], May 2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">In the United States, too many working-age people lack insurance coverage and when they do get necessary medical care, it is too little and too late. One national study found that, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">over a 17-year follow-up period, adults who lacked health insurance at the outset had a 25 percent greater chance of dying than did those who had privatehealth insurance.</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> Health insurance is a key that provides access to high quality health care and consequently to better health. It is not the only key that opens these doors nor is access to them guaranteed if one has coverage. But health insurance is the mechanism that most Americans rely upon to obtain the care that they want and need. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The health benefits of insurance are strongest when coverage is continuous rather than sporadic.</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> This report, the second in a series issued by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Committee on the Consequences of Uninsurance, summarizes the re- search evidence contrasting the health of insured and uninsured adults. The main findings are that working-age Americans without health insurance are more likely to: Receive too little medical care and receive it too late; Be sicker and die sooner; Receive poorer care when they are in the hospital even for acute situa tions like a motor vehicle crash. </span>  __<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The health and length of life of working-age Americans would improve if they obtained coverage.</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">Like those who are now insured__,__ </span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the newly insured would use preventive services</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">more often </span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> would </span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">be less likely to delay</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">seeking</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">care</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">, thus making early detection and treatment of problems more feasible. </span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The best health outcomes are possible only if the uninsured obtain coverage before the onset of any illness or injury.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: Times;">B. 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance. CECERE 09</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Harvard Gazette. "New Study Finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of coverage." David Cecere. Cambridge Health Alliance. Thursday, September 17, 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“Nearly 45,000 annual deaths are associated with lack of health insurance, according to a new study published online today by the American Journal of Public Health. That figure is about two and a half times higher than an estimate from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in 2002. The</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> study, conducted at </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Harvard Medical School [study]and Cambridge Health Alliance,found that uninsured</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">, working-age </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Americans have a 40 percent higher risk of death</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> than their </span><span style="font-family: Times;">privately </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">insured counterparts</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, up from a 25 percent excess death rate found in 1993. “The uninsured have a higher risk of death when compared to the privately insured, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">‘</span><span style="font-family: Times;">even after taking into account socioeconomics</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">, health behaviors, and baseline health’</span><span style="font-family: Times;">,” said lead author Andrew Wilper, M.D., who currently teaches at the University of Washington School of Medicine. “We doctors have many new ways to prevent deaths from hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease — but only if patients can get into our offices and afford their medications.” </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">The study</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, which analyzed data from national surveys carried out by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">assessed death rates after taking into account </span><span style="font-family: Times;">education, income, and many other factors, including </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">smoking, drinking, and obesity. It estimated that </span><span style="font-family: Times;">lack of</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;"> health </span><span style="font-family: Times;">insurance causes44,789 </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">[</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 6pt;">almost</span><span style="font-family: Times;">45,000] excess deaths annually</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Times;">.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan prevents the deaths of these 45,000 through mandatory coverage of all Americans. The quality control guarantees that the coverage provided will be successful in solving for the 45,000 deaths per year</span>

===Preventive Care Advantage=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Universal health care is cost effective and solves disease outbreaks through preventive care- key to long term solvency.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">STANGE AND WOOLF 08</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Kurt C. Stange, MD, PhD, Editor, Annals of Family Medicine, Professor of Family Medicine, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Sociology and Oncology, Case Western Reserve University. Steven H. Woolf, MD, MPH, Professor of Family Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University. "Policy Options in Support of High-Value Preventive Care." A Prevention Policy Paper Partnership for Prevention. December 2008.</span>
This unsustainable situation is not inevitable. Some 70% of health care costs are from chronic diseases, many of which are potentially preventable. 9 Fully <span style="font-size: 12pt;">38% of all deaths can be prevented</span> by modifying four health behaviors—tobacco use, physical inactivity, diet, and alcohol use. 10 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Early detectionof diseases, immunization, and preventive medications</span> also <span style="font-size: 12pt;">can be effective</span> in reducing the frequency and severity of heart disease, cancer, and the other main causes of disease, death, and spending in the U.S. Prevention’s aim is to help people live longer in good health and to forestall illness until late in life. This “compression of morbidity” 11,12 has the potential to improve productivity and quality of life and reduce premature death rates. Aside from its health benefits, spending on effective forms of preventive care makes economic sense. Although some forms of prevention do not provide a reliable return on investment, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">studies of</span> highly effective <span style="font-size: 12pt;">preventive services</span> conducted by academic institutions and business groups have <span style="font-size: 12pt;">documented their cost-effectiveness</span>—and in some cases net cost savings. 13,14,15,16,17,18 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span> ratio of dollars to health benefits <span style="font-size: 12pt;">(cost effectiveness ratio)</span> for effective preventive services <span style="font-size: 12pt;">is much lower than</span> for much of <span style="font-size: 12pt;">conventional</span> medical <span style="font-size: 12pt;">care</span>, producing greater health benefit per dollar spent. 19,20 Some preventive interventions involve work by individuals, such as personal efforts to eat a healthy diet, engage in physical activity, and practice safety measures to prevent injury. Other interventions involve groups, such as when programs enacted at the population level reduce the public’s exposure to the causes of disease and injury or make it easier for people to make healthier. Yet <span style="font-size: 12pt;">expanded coverage is necessary to make prevention coverage adequate</span>. Until recently, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Medicare was not authorized to reimburse preventive care</span>. 53 Recent legislation authorizes the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to cover (with the concurrence of the Medicare Evidence Development & Coverage Advisory Committee) preventive services for which the USPSTF has found strong evidence of efficacy, although some vaccines are excluded. State governments face additional challenges, including the requirement to maintain balanced budgets, decreased revenue as a result of the current downturn in the economy, and a growing list of priorities—improving highways and schools, economic development, maintaining a social safety net, controlling tax rates, etc.—that compete with dollars for health care and the needs of the uninsured. 5 Employers and other purchasers of health care, whose profits are jeopardized by rising health care costs, are shifting costs to workers and unions, limiting coverage benefits, and questioning the viability of employer-based health insurance. The <span style="font-size: 12pt;">long-term benefits</span> of investing in prevention <span style="font-size: 12pt;">occur</span> largely in the “out years,” <span style="font-size: 12pt;">when employees</span> and health plan members are likely to <span style="font-size: 12pt;">have moved on to other markets.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">And, pandemics cause mass death. GREGER 06</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Michael Greger, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Society of the U.S. & Graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine. "Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching." 2006.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A pandemic today could be many times worse</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> than the pandemic of 1918, the world’s greatest medical catastrophe. In 1918 we were, as a nation and as a people, much more self-sufficient.565 With the corporate triumph of free trade, just-in-time inventory management and global supply chains now characterize all major economies and business sectors.566 Economic analysts predict the pandemic would cause a global economic collapse unprecedented in modern history.567 </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">With the global population</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> at an historical high, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">this could lead to unprecedented human suffering</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. A short 100,000 years ago, all members of the human race lived in eastern Africa.568 The 6.5 billion people alive today represent roughly one out of every nine people who have ever inhabited the Earth.569 In 1918, cities like London were smaller, with just over than one million residents. Today there are 26 megacities in the world, each with more than ten million people.570 With this kind of tinder, experts like the WHO’s Klaus Stöhr predict the pandemic will “explosively” hit world populations “like a flash flood.”571 “</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The rapidity of the spread of influenza throughout a country is only limited by</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> the rapidity of the </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">means of transportation</span><span style="font-family: Times;">,” explained the 1918 New York State Health Commissioner.572 Back then, the fastest way to cross the world was by steamship.573 In the past, a trip around the world took a year; today we and our viruses can circle the globe in 24 hours.574 The number of human globe-trotters now exceeds one billion people a year.575 AIDS left Africa on an aircraft. So too may H5N1 leave Asia, only a plane ride away. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Between</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> record </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">population</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> levels </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and the unprecedented</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> current speed, volume, and </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">reach of global air travel</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">any pandemic virus could wreak unparalleled havoc</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.576 H5N1, though, promises to be more than just any pandemic virus. In all of his more than 40 years working with influenza viruses, Robert Webster can state unequivocally, “This is the worst flu virus I have ever seen or worked with or read about.”577 At a congressional briefing, Gregory A. Poland of the Mayo Clinic and the Infectious Diseases Society of America tried to get members of Congress to imagine the unimaginable—an H5N1 pandemic. “I want to emphasize the certainty that a pandemic will occur,” he began. “When this happens, time will be described, for those left living, as before and after the pandemic.”578 The top virologist in Russia attempted to tally the worst-case scenario potential human death count: “</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Up to one billion people could die</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> around the whole world in six months…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The aff solves these harms because all premiums include preventive care as is clarified by Mohit.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: Times;">Underview</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Also, taxes and costs don't increase with universal health care- a single health care system run by the government can guarantee universal</span>****<span style="font-family: Times;"> access without raising costs. Nine independent studies all generated the same conclusions. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">DR. MICHAEL MCCALLY explains</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Dr. Michael McCally, Professor in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, Oregon. Single Payer National Health Insurance published by the Willamette University Health Journal.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Studies</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in the last decade </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">by the Congressional Budget Office, the G[overnment] A[accountability] O[ffice]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">and </span><span style="font-family: Times;">most recently </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the California Healthcare Options Project demonstrate that in a single payer system, comprehensive care can be provided for everyone without requiring more funds than we spend now</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. The California State Legislature, using funding from the federal government, contracted with the Lewin Group, a largely, highly respected, inside-the-Washington-beltway consulting firm, to conduct a careful analysis of a set of nine plans, all designed to reduce the number of uninsured persons in California. The final report of the Healthcare Options Project was released. The report confirms that only </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> single-payer, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">publicly financed plan can provide universal access</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> to care without increasing the level of healthcare spending. Lewin studied </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[a study of] nine plans [showed]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> developed by various groups in California. Four were multiple-payer programs with a range of subsidies designed to encourage participation by low-income individuals and employers. Two were “play or pay” plans in which employers were required to either provide insurance for their employees or pay into a state fund that would provide coverage for their employees; and three were single-payer insurance or health service plans in which all residents would automatically be covered. According to the study, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">all of the multi-payer plans add to current costs while covering a</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> relatively </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">small portion of the</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> currently </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">uninsured</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. The employer-mandate plans cover a larger portion of the uninsured, up to 86%, but at a correspondingly greater cost. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> single-payer, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">publicly financed</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and administered </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">plans</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, on the other hand, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">reduce costs</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> 2.4 to </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[by] 5% while covering everyone</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">The agency can subsidize important treatments while placing co-pays on other ones to discourage free-riding, so there's no waiting times or overuse, as empirically proven by the French system.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">EZRA KLEIN writes</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Ezra Klein, Editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg. His work focuses on domestic and economic policymaking, as well as the political system that's constantly screwing it up]. The Health of Nations: How Europe, Canada, and our own VA do health care better. The Prospect. April 22, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Given all this, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the French utilize more care than Americans do</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, averaging six physician visits a year to our 2.8, and they spend more time in the hospital as well. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Yet they still manage to spend half per capita than we do,</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> largely due to lower prices and a focus on preventive care. That focus is abetted by the French </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[the] system</span><span style="font-family: Times;">'s innovative </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">respon[ds] to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> one of the trickier problems bedeviling health-policy experts: an economic concept called "moral hazard." Moral hazard describes people's </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[the] tendency to overuse goods</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> or services that offer more marginal benefit without a proportionate marginal cost. Translated into English, you eat more at a buffet because the refills are free, and you use more health care because insurers generally make you pay up front in premiums, rather than at the point of care. The obvious solution is to shift more of the cost away from premiums and into co-pays or deductibles, thus increasing the sensitivity of consumers to the real cost of each unit of care they purchase. This has been the preferred solution of the right, which has argued for a move toward high-deductible care, in which individuals bear more financial risk and vulnerability. As the thinking goes, this increased exposure to the economic consequences of purchasing care will create savvier health-care consumers, and individuals will use less unnecessary care and demand better prices for what they do use. Problem is, studies show that individuals are pretty bad at distinguishing necessary care from unnecessary care, and so they tend to cut down on mundane-but-important things like hypertension medicine, which leads to far costlier complications. Moreover, many health problems don't lend themselves to bargain shopping. It's a little tricky to try to negotiate </span><span style="font-family: Times;">prices from an ambulance gurney. A wiser approach is to seek to separate cost-effective care from unproven treatments, and align the financial incentives to encourage the former and discourage the latter. The French have addressed this </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">by creating</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> what amounts to </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a tiered system for treatment</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> reimbursement. As Jonathan Cohn explains in his new book, Sick: </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">In order to prevent cost sharing from penalizing people with serious medical problems</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> -- the way Health Savings Accounts threaten to do -- the government limits every individual's out-of-pocket expenses. In addition, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">the government has identified thirty chronic conditions</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, such as diabetes and hypertension, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">for which there is usually no cost sharing,</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> in order to make sure people don't skimp on preventive care that might head off future complications. The French do the same for pharmaceuticals, which are grouped into one of three classes and reimbursed at 35 percent, 65 percent, or 100 percent of cost, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">depending on whether data show their use to be cost effective</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. It's a wise straddle of a tricky problem, and one that other nations would do well to emulate.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Affirming is the best way to preserve autonomy. When uninsured people are ill, they impose the costs on those around them- any means based standard collapses into util since harms are inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">MENZEL AND LIGHT</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">Paul Menzel and Donald Light, Professor of Philosophy at Pacific Lutheran University. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care. Hastings Center Report. July-August 2006.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Conservatives’ wariness of government power is based in part on the belief that “individuals should make their own way in the world.”13 </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A common</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> conservative </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">argumentagainst“government health insurance” is</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> thus </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">that people should take care of themselves</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Paradoxically, however, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">this belief</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">forms an argument for universal health</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> insurance: </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">people need</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> universal </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">access to</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> basic </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">health care in order to maximize their ability to care for themselves. When people are ill, individual liberty</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and personal responsibility are </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[is]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> quickly </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">compromised</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. Even small disorders like mild depression or a bad back can turn liberty and responsibility into dependency. For the chronically or seriously ill, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">medicalcare can become a</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> great </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">financial burden. Losses in wages</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and earned income </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">make matters</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> even </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">worse</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, particularly when able-bodied </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">citizens can no longer care for themselves</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> and their dependents. Medical bankruptcy is virtually unknown in the rest of the developed world, but it is quite common in the United States. Forty percent of U.S. personal bankruptcies are attributed to medical bills people are unable to pay.14 Out-of-pocket costs that total 10 percent or more of household income are not uncommon, especially among the working class.15 This can hardly be an attractive picture of a workforce for American business. </span>



<span style="font-family: Times;">Also, the negative must have a specific advocacy. If the negative runs a disad to the aff, its harms are nonsensical unless we know what the neg world is because badness is a relative scale.</span>


==Negative== 
See Lexington JC for discourse ethics NC
===Nozick NC=== 
**First**, as a starting point for morality, all moral theories presume the inherent worth of moral agents as grounds for constraints upon action, otherwise morality would have no reason to require anything.
**QUINN**
[Quinn, Warren S. Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). JSTOR. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2185021]
(A person is...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the collective whole</span>.)
**Negative obligations outweigh positive obligations**
**And,** side constraints on ethical theories are the only way to respect the inherent worth of each individual
**NOZICK 1**
[Robert Nozick, 1968. American political philosopher, professor at Harvard University. “Anarchy, State, and Utopia” pp. 30-31]
(Side constraints upon...in any respect)
**The standard is respecting the inherent worth of individuals**
**I contend universal healthcare violates the worth of individuals**
Universal healthcare requires redistributive taxes.
**WOOLHANDLER AND HIMMELSTEIN**
[Steffie Woolhandler, M.D. and David U. Himmelstein, M.D. practice and teach medicine at the Cambridge Hospital/Harvard Medical School and are co-founders of Physicians for a National Health Program. 2012. “Paying For National Health Insurance—And Not Getting It” __Health Affairs__ http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/21/4/88.full]
(When government grants...Jones’s health care)
Redistributive taxes violate the worth of individuals for two reasons.
**1.** The state is only justified in keeping law and order. Redistribution goes beyond the minimal state and violates libertarian side constraints.
**NOZICK 2**
[Robert Nozick, 1968. American political philosopher, professor at Harvard University. “Anarchy, State, and Utopia” pp. 33-34]
(The moral side...life to lead)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The government serves to protect basic rights, anything beyond that violates autonomy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NOZICK 3</span>
[Robert Nozick, 1968. American political philosopher, professor at Harvard University. “Anarchy, State, and Utopia” pp. 33-34]
<span style="font-size: 120%;">(So strong and...well as right)</span>
**And,** redistribution is aggression through forced labor.
**NOZICK 4**
[Robert Nozick, 1968. American political philosopher, professor at Harvard University. “Anarchy, State, and Utopia” p. 169
(Taxation of earnings...are not forcings)

===Cancer DA=== 
**In the status quo, the U.S. has a much better cancer survival rate than any other universal healthcare country. MCCAUGHEY 07**
September 14, 2007 Cancer Killers. Betsey McCaughey. Wall Street Journal.
**But, universal health care kills medical innovation which is key to solve for the most deadly diseases.**
**HOWARD 07**
Paul Howard, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. "A Story Michael Moore Didn’t Tell." July 17 2007. The Washington Post
**MCCAUGHEY 2 provides two additional warrants**
**And, cancer outweighs**
**1. Cancer is a much bigger problem than lack of access for a few- affects all of society, not just the current uninsured.**
**MCCAUGHEY 3**
**2. Cancer is responsible for 1 in 4 deaths in the U.S. ― it’s the most important disease of which we need to continue developing solutions against.**
**ACS 10**
American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts & Figures 2010. Atlanta, GA. 2010.
**3. Time Frame**
**4. Scope**
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Trutil AC=== 
**I affirm.**
**The only distinction between rehabilitation and retribution is the justification.**
**LESSNOFF**
[Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, “TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT” __Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly]__
<span class="DebateUnderline">By 'the retributive theory'</span>, I mean...to perform acts of the kind punished.

**And the West's Encyclopedia of American Law** **clarifies that rehabilitation is a utilitarian view of punishment.**
[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Punishment,+Criminal]
**Thus the sufficient aff burden is proving that punishment ought to be justified through utilitarianism and the sufficient negative burden is proving that punishment ought to be justified by the moral culpability of behavior.**
Prefer this interpretation:
1**. Directly Comparative**
**2. Expert Definitions**
**3. Philosophical Education**
**4. Prefer aff interpretations**
because
13-7 restart in the 1AR
negative must defend that retribution is more valuable than rehabilitation, not permissibility or skep
A. Ground
B. Reciprocity
Additionally, no implementation:
The lack of an actor in the resolution designated by the use of passive tense indicates an evaluation of value, defined as <span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span><span class="DebateUnderline">relative worth</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, merit, or importance: the value of a college education; the value of a queen in chess." </span>by Merriam-Webster.
2. Allowing debaters to implement allows them to limit the resolution and advantages them
3. The resolution doesn’t specify a timeframe so it is atemporal

**I contend that Util is Trutil**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, respect for the equality of persons mandates consequentialism.</span>**
**CUMMISKEY**
[Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. Published by Oxford University Press. 1996. (p.142).]
<span class="LDCut">**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Second</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, deontological side constraints assume a distinction between acting and choosing not act</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">D. </span>**governments are morally responsible for their omissions because they always face choices between different sets of policy options, all of which advantage some while disadvantaging others.**
**SUNSTEIN AND VERMEULE**
<span class="verdana">[Cass R. </span>Sunstein and Vermeule<span class="verdana"> Adrian “Is Capital Punishment </span><span class="hit">Morally Required?</span><span class="verdana"> Acts, Omissions, and Life-Life Tradeoffs.</span> Copyright (c) 2005 The Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University. Stanford Law Review December,2005 58 Stan. L. Rev. 703]
<span class="documentbody">**<span style="font-family: Times;">Third</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, absolute standards are logically incoherent since they produce insolvable conflicts </span>
<span class="documentbody">**<span style="font-family: Times;">Fourth</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, all moral systems collapse into an evaluation of end states, since end states are the only way to classify acts into moral categories. </span>
**th**, personhood is irrelevant: Derek Parfit’s fission brain thought experiment
And, lack of personal identity undermines theories of Desert.
**DRESSER**
[Rebecca Dresser, J.D. Associate Professor, School of Law and Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University. “PERSONAL IDENTITY AND PUNISHMENT” __Boston University Law Review__]
**Sixth**, the nature of moral statements requires utilitarianism as it is the only way to make moral concepts
referential.
Seventh, we all believe that we ought morally make the world better when we can—the burden of proof is on them to show otherwise. Thus, winning reasons to reject their standard is sufficient reason to default to the AC even if I do not win proactive reason to prefer mine.
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">SINOTT-ARMSTRONG</span>
[Sinnott-Armstrong, Walter, "Consequentialism", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2011/entries/consequentialism/]
Eighth, only consequentialism can account for the fact that there are differing degrees of rightness and wrongness.
**ALEXANDER**
[Larry Alexander, “Scalar Properties, Binary Judgments,” Journal of Applied Philosophy 25 (2008)]
**UNDERVIEW 1:**
C. Research shows that rehabilitation is extremely effective at reducing crime.
**CULLEN**
Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau. Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John. Volume 3. "Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects." 2000.
Finally, prefer meta-analysis over individual studies or isolated examples.
**CULLEN 2**
**A meta-analysis confirms that rehabilitation through cognitive behavior therapy reduces recidivism rates by 25% in comparison to retribution.**
**LANDENBERGER & LIPSEY**
[Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey, 2005. Landenberger is a doctoral candidate in clinical psychology at Vanderbilt University with several years’ experience providing CBT treatment to adult offenders. Lipsey is a professor of public policy at Vanderbilt University and a codirector of the Center for Evaluation Research and Methodology. The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders:A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment. Journal of Experimental Criminology]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Landenberger & Lipsey methodology]</span>
Criteria for Inclusion of Studies Studies were assessed and selected for this meta-analysis if they met the following criteria: Intervention. The treatment under investigation was a variant of cognitive-behavioral therapy representing or substantially similar to such recognized “brand name” CBT programs as Reasoning and Rehabilitation (Ross & Fabiano, 1985), Moral Reconation Therapy (Little & Robinson, 1986), Aggression Replacement Training (Goldstein & Glick, 1987), the Thinking for a Change curriculum (Bush, Glick & Taymans, 1997), and the Cognitive Interventions Program (NIC, 1996). In particular, it was directed toward changing distorted or dysfunctional cognitions (cognitive restructuring) or teaching new cognitive skills and involved therapeutic techniques typically associated with CBT, i.e., structured learning experiences designed to affect such cognitive processes as interpreting social cues, monitoring one’s own thought processes, identifying and compensating for distortions and errors in thinking, reasoning about right and wrong behavior, generating alternative solutions, and making decisions about appropriate behavior. If CBT was offered in the context of a multimodal program that simultaneously provided other services, the CBT must have been provided to all participants and constitute a major component of the program. Participants. The recipients of the intervention were criminal offenders, either juveniles or adults, treated while on probation, incarcerated/institutionalized, or during aftercare/parole. Offenders were drawn from a general offender population and not selected for, or restricted to, those committing specific types of offenses (e.g., sex offenses, DUI, drug offenses, status offenses). Outcome measures. The study reported criminal offending subsequent to treatment as an outcome variable. Outcome results were presented in a quantitative form that permitted computation or reasonable estimation of an effect size statistic representing the difference in recidivism rates between treated and untreated offenders. Research methods. The study used a randomized or quasi-experimental design that compared a CBT treatment condition with a control condition that did not include CBT treatment. Quasiexperimental designs were eligible only if subjects in the treatment and control conditions were matched or statistically controlled on pre-treatment risk-related variables (e.g., relevant personal, demographic, and criminal background characteristics) or if pre-treatment measures of criminal or antisocial behavior or significant risk factors for such behavior were reported in a form that permitted assessment of the initial equivalence of the treatment and control groups. To eliminate explicit self-selection as a biasing factor in group assignment, however, studies were not included if the control groups were created with individuals who began CBT but dropped out prior to completing treatment or who were offered CBT and refused. Control groups could represent placebo, wait-list, no treatment, or “treatment as usual” conditions, with the latter restricted to cases of clearly routine probation, institutional, or aftercare/parole practices. Source. Both published and unpublished studies were eligible for inclusion, conducted in any country, and reported in any language.

**Increased recidivism has four impacts.**
**WILSON**
[Wilson, Jane. Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US. Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review, 2007. http://www.scribd.com/doc/19695235/Juvenile-Recidivism]
**UNDERVIEW 2:**
Retribution is only morally permissible if it can be demonstrated that it is proportionate.
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">ROEBUCK 1</span>
//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Greg Roebuck David Wood</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Melbourne Law School professors</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">A Retributive Argument Against Punishment</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Criminal Law and Philosophy, Volume 5, Issue 1, 2011</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>////<span style="color: #2a2a2a; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1743270]]</span>////<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, 2011]</span>//
Retribution can not be demonstrated to be proportionate and therefore can never be morally permissible.
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">ROEBUCK 2</span>
Vote on the RVI if I win a counter-interp or offense on their interp,

===L<span style="font-size: 140%;">A</span>Y<span style="font-size: 140%;">C</span>=== 
**I AFFIRM and offer the following observation: The resolution is a question of the aim of punishment. Both rehab and retribution are types of punishment because they are ways to respond to criminal behavior; the difference lies in how it is justified.**

**MICHAEL LESSNOFF writes**
Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, "TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT." Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly.
**I value appropriate governmental action, since the resolution questions the goal of the criminal justice system. Criminal justice should focus on maximizing overall good in society, so the criterion is maximizing expected wellbeing.**

**FIRST, questions of morality or justice are only relevant in terms of the government, since they have specific obligations to their people. Governments are created by individuals who centralize power under a sovereign that protects its citizens' wellbeing and security.**
**ROBIN WEST explains**
Robin West. "Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.
**C.****<span style="font-family: Times;"> Retribution leads to incarceration that leads to a cycle of crime that unjustly punishes the community as well as the criminal.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">HALEY</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">John O. Haley 11, Orthwein Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus, Washington University in St. Louis and Professor of Law, Vanderbilt University Law School. "Introduction—Beyond Retribution: An Integrated Approach to Restorative Justice." 36 Wash. U. J. L. & Pol’y 1 (2011).</span>
**D. Retribution is nonsensical because its justification collapses to maximizing expected wellbeing**
**CONTENTION 2**
**REHABILITATION WORKS**

**A. Research shows rehabilitation is extremely effective in reducing crime.**
**CULLEN 2000**
Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau. Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John. Volume 3. "Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects." 2000.
**And, prefer meta-analysis over individual studies or isolated examples of failure.**
**CULLEN II**
**B.** **Increased recidivism negatively impacts society.**
**WILSON**
Jane Wilson.. Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US. Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review, 2007.
**Thus you affirm.**

==Negative== 
===Fair Play NC=== 
I negate and value justice defined as giving each their fair due because the resolution questions the actions of the criminal justice system. Morality and justice are synonymous because both are codes of conduct designed to guide proper action.

<span style="font-family: Times;">First, a prerequisite to discussing retribution is the assumption of responsibility and free will. If a crime was not committed voluntarily, retribution is definitionally off the table.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">CRAGG</span>
**Society is a cooperative endeavor that allows individuals to benefit from cooperation with others in society.**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">DAGGER 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">[Richard Dagger, Ph.D in political science, p</span>rofessor of Political Science at Arizona State University he is also Director of the Philosophy, Politics, and Law Program at Arizona State, “Playing Fair with Punishment”, Ethics, Vol. 103, No. 3 (Apr., 1993), pp. 473-488, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381750]
**Respect for the equality of persons demands adherence to laws.**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">MORRISEY</span>
[Clair Morrissey, UNC Chapel Hill, A Role for Expression in Retributive Theories of Punishment<span style="font-family: Times;">, </span>2006]
**By entering a cooperative society, individuals accept an obligation to the society to bear their burdens of the practice. Justice requires that individuals act on this obligation.**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">DAGGER 2</span>
**The standard is maintaining an equilibrium of benefits and burdens.**

**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Times;">Retribution is necessary for law-breakers to repay the debt to law-abiding citizens that they have incurred.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">MORRIS 1</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">[Herbert Morris, Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Law Emeritus at UCLA and nationally recognized philosopher of law, The Monist Volume 52, No. 4 Persons and Punishment, published by Hegeler Institute, JSTOR, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/27902099]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, October, 1968]</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unlike retribution, rehabilitation does not seek to have law-breakers pay a debt to society.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">MORRIS 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Retribution acts as a mechanism to prevent the equilibrium from being disrupted.</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">MORRISEY 2</span>
==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Topicality</span>== 
===T- Restorative Justice=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A. INTERPRETATION: </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">On the NFL 2013 Jan/Feb resolution debaters who defend implementation of a policy may not defend restorative justice. Restorative Justice is not rehabilitation. They are centered around distinct values</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">WARD</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Times;">[Tony Ward, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">Professor of Psychology and Director of Clinical Training at Victoria University of Wellington. He has worked primarily in the clinical and forensic fields since 1987. His research interests include rehabilitation models and issues; cognition and sex offenders; the problem behaviour process in offenders; the implications of naturalism for theory construction and clinical practice; and assessment and case formulation in clinical psychology</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">, “Punishment and Correctional Practice: Ethical and Rehabilitation Implications”, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">Policy Quarterly</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">, http://igps.victoria.ac.nz/publications/files/3b2a922aa24.pdf, </span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">May 2009</span>////<span style="font-family: Times;">]</span>//
<span style="font-size: 120%;">Third, a more subtle point...for the harm suffered by victims</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">B. VIOLATION: </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">My opponent advocates for the use of restorative justice. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">C. STANDARDS: </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">a. text</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">b. predictability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">D. VOTERS:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Jurisdiction</span>

===<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">T- Aims of Punishment</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">A. INTERPRETATION: </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Debaters may not fiat arguments outside the scope of the resolution. The resolution is a question of the justifying aims of punishment rather than policy implementation. Rehabilitation differentiates from retribution because they are contrastive justifying aims of punishment.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">LESSNOFF 1</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Times;">[Lessnoff, Michael. Two Justifications of Punishment. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336.]</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">B. VIOLATION: Aff reads a plan/advocacy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">C. STANDARDS: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Textuality</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Real world education</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Predictability</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Limits</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">DUBBER AND KELMAN</span>**

//<span style="font-family: Times;">[Dubber, Markus D. [SUNY Buffalo Law School] and Kelman, Mark G. [Stanford Law School]. American Criminal Law: Cases, Statutes, and Comments 2nd Ed. Foundation Press. 2012. </span>//[[http://www.dubberkelman.com/display.asp?displayID=chapter1.pdf|//http://www.dubberkelman.com/display.asp?displayID=chapter1.pdf//]]

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">D. VOTERS:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Fairness</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Education </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Jurisdiction</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
===Argo AC=== 
Merriam Webster defines intervene as “to interfere <span style="font-size: 6pt;">usually by force or threat of force</span> in another nations internal affairs especially to compel <span style="font-size: 6pt;">or prevent an</span> action.”

**James Nickel, of the University of Colorado defines human rights as**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Philosophy Department at the University of Colorado where as Director of the Center for Values and Social Policy and Department Chair, “Human Rights” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2013/entries/rights-human/</span>
I defend that the United States is justified in intervening when there are United States citizens taken as hostages or held against their will in foreign countries.
I contend that intentionality is the only morally relevant factor. Consequences do not matter.

I value appropriate governmental action.

While individuals may have moral rules against killing or stealing, a different ethical code exists for the government, because it is created to protect many people.
Professor Robin West writes for the Fordham Law Review, quote
"<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Further, the intrinsic worth of persons justifies self-defense. Without the right to self-defense, life is vacuous and without meaning. Even under absolutist systems of deontology, self-defense is justified. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Wallerstein (</span><span style="font-family: Times;">Shlomit Wallerstein. “Justifying the Right to Self-Defense: A Theory of Forced Consequences.” Virginia Law Review, Vol. 91:999, 2005. Lecturer, St. Peter’s College, Oxford University.) </span>
Thus the value criterion is respecting the right to self-defense. The affirmative burden is to show that attempting to intervene when foreign nations have taken U.S. hostages is an act of self-defense. If I prove that, then you affirm.

Contention 1: When U.S. Hostages are taken, they are assaulted, battered, and in need of protection from the U.S. government.
**Lesley Stahl proved this as recently as 2009, citing Iraq**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Stahl 2009 (Lesley, reported for CBS on 60 minutes since 1991, “The Hostage”) http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18560_162-879605.html</span>
A past example of effective intervention is was in Iran.
While stern negotiations originally failed, the U.S. intervened through economic channels.
The White House Press Association comments, quote
**The Los Angeles Times provides another example**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tina, national correspondent for the Los Angeles Times, “'A world of lies and false hope') http://articles.latimes.com/2011/sep/26/nation/la-na-iran-hikers-20110926</span>
However, hostage taking doesn’t just threaten those citizens directly taken; it also leads to existential danger for the rest of the U.S.
The Department of State Reports, quote,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Office of the Historian, Bureau of Public Affairs, United States Department of State</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">http://history.state.gov/departmenthistory/short-history/iraniancrises</span>
==Negative== 
===China NC=== 
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">I value morality </span>
**The function of the US government is consequentialist because policymakers can only justify their policies by the consequences.**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">WOLLER</span>
Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]
Second, the moral equality of persons demands a utilitarian approach to policy making. Rakowski writes
“Taking and Saving Lives” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156 Published by: Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, the standard is minimizing death</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">A. Uniqueness</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">US- China relations are strong now.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">KISSINGER</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/author/henry-a-kissinger|Henry A. Kissinger]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, Former National Security Advisor, The Future of U.S.-Chinese Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137245/henry-a-kissinger/the-future-of-us-chinese-relations, April 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">B. Links</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">Intervention has empirically killed china relations </span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Valentino 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(The True Costs of Humanitarian Intervention The Hard Truth About a Noble Notion BenjaminA.Valentino november / december 2011 Foreign Affairs Volume 90 Number 6</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">China doesn’t support human rights intervention in general as it fears intervention in its treatment of minorities. Intervention hurts relations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">Bajoria 11</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> The Dilemma of Humanitarian Intervention </span><span style="color: #888888; font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">Author: Jayshree BajoriaUpdated: March 24, 2011 Council on Foreign Relations </span><span style="font-family: Times;">The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is an independent, nonpartisan membership organization, think tank, and publisher.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">U.S. intervention in the middle east causes China and Russia anti-U.S. cooperation. Catalyst for awful relations</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">Trenin 12</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> Syria Could Unite Russia and China Against the U.S. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Times; font-size: 8.5pt;">By Dmitri Trenin Jun 7, 2012 6:30 PM ET http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-07/syria-could-unite-russia-and-china-against-the-u-s-.html</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">C. Impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">US-Sino relations are key to global peace and warming</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Times;">Zhou 8</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at Hobart and William Smith Colleges – NY -- Dr. Jinghao, Does China’s Rise Threaten the United States? Asian Perspective, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2008, pp. 171-182</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]