[[toc]]
=Speaker Positions= 
Jay Lam 2a and 2n
Citezz: Email either of us for aff or neg
[[mailto:jj2241lam@gmail.com|jj2241lam@gmail.com]]
[[mailto:chrislin925@gmail.com|chrislin925@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
**CCS**
====**Contention one is inherency—**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The US needs to re-energize CCS now, IEA proves</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kasey ‘13</span>


====**Plan: The United States Federal Government should facilitate regulated pipeline transportation and storage of captured carbon in the United States.**==== 

====**Contention two is warming—**==== 

Warming is real and anthropogenic–best climate data and models prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mueller 12</span>


Err strongly aff—their evidence is a joke

Plait 12

It’s not too late—emissions reductions __can avoid__ and __delay__ catastrophic impacts.
Chestney 1/13/13

The impact is __extinction__—positive feedbacks and tipping points make the world __uninhabitable__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan ‘09</span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span>**

Independently causes __hydrogen sulfide expansion__—causes extinction.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Ward 10** </span>

Also acidifies the oceans—causes extinction.
Romm ‘9

Both sides err away from nuclear escalation
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinlan 9</span>__**

No extinction from nuclear war
**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Seitz</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> **6**</span>__

The plan gets modeled globally—key to __global emissions reductions__ and __binding carbon limits__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MIT ‘7,</span>


====**Contention 3 is no war**==== 
War is not an impact-
A. Integration
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deudney and Ikenberry 9-(</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">DANIEL DEUDNEY is Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and the author of Bounding Power: Republican Security Theory From the Polis to the</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Global Village. G. John Ikenberry is Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">International Affairs at Princeton University, a Global Eminence Scholar at Kyung</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hee University, and the author of After Victory: Institutions, Strategic Restraint, and</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the Rebuilding of Order After Major Wars. “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail”, http://relooney.fatcow.com/00_New_3065.pdf)</span>


B. Nuclear Deterrence
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tepperman 9-(</span>Deputy Editor and Managing Editor at Newsweek International (Jonathan, LL.M. in International Law from NYU, former Deputy Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs; citing Kenneth Waltz (Adjunct Professor of Political Science at Columbia University); 8/28/09, “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb, ”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">)</span>


C. No risk of miscalc or escalation
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinlan 9</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, distinguished former British defense strategist and former Permanent Under-Secretary of State, Thinking About Nuclear Weapons, 63-9)</span>




And nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction-

A. Number of Weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ball 6-(</span>Special Professor at the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University (Desmond, May 2006, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/18659/ipublicationdocument_singledocument/572903b0-04ba-4180-8bcb-a249d8120feb/en/SDSC_WP_401.pdf]]</span>)


B. No impact to Fallout
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Martin 84-(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;"> Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA. “Extinction Politics” http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html.)</span>

C. No Nuclear Winter
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Martin 84-(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;"> Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA. “The Global Health Effects of Nuclear War” http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82cab/index.html)</span>


==== ==== 
====**Contention 4 is solvency—**==== 

Government CCS program is a __pre-requisite to private investment__
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Mack ’09</span>**

CCS now is key—__nothing else__ solves climate change.
Cohen et al. ‘9

Only the federal government solves
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Horne ‘10</span>**

Continued R&D makes it __cheaper__ than regular coal plants
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rubin ‘12</span>


No leaks

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CTA 11</span>


No impact to earthquakes

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reisinger ‘9</span>


Now is key–impact to delay CPs

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Zarraby ‘12</span>**

Point To Point Fails
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Grid ‘12</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>


CCS will cut carbon emissions and drive economic growth. Its popular.

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">CCJ 10</span>


=Negative= 
==Politics DA-Immigration== 
Immigration will pass now because of Obama’s political capital
Bill <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Keller</span>, NYTimes, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2/3/</span>13, Selling Amnesty, www.nytimes.com/2013/02/04/opinion/keller-selling-amnesty.html?pagewanted=print

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let’s assume that President </span>Obama and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>Democrats<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> sincerely </span>want<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an </span>immigration<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> bill</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this is not a trick to trap Republicans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> into an anti-immigrant vote that will alienate Hispanic voters and secure Democratic advantage for a generation......................... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**But it needn’t happen this time**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**If**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Obama**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Congressional leaders </span>//play// //their cards right//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**, as they are doing** </span>//so far//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, immigration reform — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**real immigration reform**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**can** </span>//clear Congress//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> **this year**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Selling the measure to the Republican House will require** </span>//close attention//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**substance, marketing and** </span>//legislative tactics//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**.**</span>

[link]- we can give you cites for specific aff links


Critical to US economic recovery
Aaron <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrazas</span>, Migration Policy Institute, July 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, The Economic Integration of Immigrants in the United States: Long- and Short-Term Perspectives, http://www.migrationpolicy.org/pubs/EconomicIntegration.pdf

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The fate of </span>immigrants<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the United States and their integration into the labor market </span>are impossible to separate from the state of the //overall US economy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and the fate of all US workers.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">........... </span>In the wake of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>global economic crisis<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>there is substantial uncertainty regarding<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the future trajectory of </span>the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">US </span>economy and labor <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">market</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Most </span>forecasts suggest <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that </span>the next decade will be substantially different<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from the past26 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and it is not clear </span>if <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">previous </span>trends in immigrants’ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">economic integration will </span>continue<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Steady educational gains throughout the developing world have simultaneously increased downward wage pressure on highly skilled workers who, in the past, generated substantial secondary demand for services that immigrants often provide.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nuclear war</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Harris and Burrows ‘9** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, </span><span class="underline">history may be more instructive than ever</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.................... </span><span class="underline">With water</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="underline">becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, </span>cooperation<span class="underline"> to manage changing water resources </span>is<span class="underline"> likely to be increasingly </span>difficult<span class="underline"> both within and between states </span>in a<span class="underline"> more </span>dog-eat-dog world.

==Soybeans DA== 
==Water Tradeoff DA== 
==China Steel DA== 
==Anthro K== 
**(link)**

**This human-centric ethic will culminate in ecological collapse and extinction.**
**Ahkin ‘10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Melanie Ahkin, Monash University, 2010, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australian Philosophers, a peer reviewed journal of philosophy,http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/archives.html)</span>

__These five features provide the basis for hegemonic centrism insofar as they promote__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">certain </span>__conceptual and perceptual distortions of reality which universalise and naturalise the standpoint of the superior relata as primary or centre..............................................................____such a logic must inevitably lead to failure, either through the catastrophic extinction of our natural environment and the consequent collapse of our species__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__or more **hopefully** by the abandonment and transformation of the human centric framework.15__

**The alternative is to vote negative to embrace an ethic of organism.**
**Henning’9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Gonzaga University in Spokane, WA. Henning is author of the award winning book The Ethics of Creativity: Beauty, Morality and Nature in a Processive Cosmos. His current scholarship and teaching focus on the interconnections among ethics, metaphysics, and aesthetics, especially as they relate to the ethics of global climate change. E-mail: [[mailto:henning@gonzaga.edu|henning@gonzaga.edu]], “Trusting in the 'Efficacy of Beauty': A Kalocentric Approach to Moral Philosophy,” MUSE, AM)</span>

__Final truths__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(whether in religion, morality, or science) </span>__are unattainable not only due to the finitude and fallibility of human inquirers........................................__ __The recognition of nature's dynamism furthermore requires that philosophers abandon finally the artificial__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">bifurcations (</span>__dualisms) and unjustified reductions (physicalism and materialism) that distort and destroy the interdependent relationships constituting reality. The____world revealed by the last century of scientific investigation can no longer support a mechanistic model that describes the natural world in terms of vacuous facts determined by absolute laws__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In its place, I am defending the adoption of an organic model that conceives of reality as vibrant, open, and processive. On this model, individuals are conceived of as ongoing events situated in vast webs of interdependence, each achieving value for themselves, for others, and for the whole of reality.</span>




==Security K== 
Transportation infrastructure is a tool of total war—it’s an object of knowledge that integrates all parts of society into a biopolitical network of unending violence.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collier and Lakoff ‘9</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen J., The New School, New York, and Andrew, University of California, San Diego, “On Vital Systems Security,” [[http://www.gpia.info/files/u16/Collier_and_Lakoff_2009-01.pdf]], AM)</span>

<span class="TitleChar">But </span>the<span class="TitleChar"> most important area for the </span>initial development of<span class="TitleChar"> the concepts and techniques of </span>vital systems security was military conflict<span class="BoldUnderline"> and military preparedness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the classic domains of sovereign state security. In particular, </span>this development was linked to<span class="TitleChar"> a specific moment in the history of warfare,whenthe paradigm of sovereign state security was undergoing a significant transformation relatedto </span>//the rise of total war.//Total war<span class="BoldUnderline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of course, </span>involves the //systematic incorporation// ofthe national economy and population //into the war effort//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ..................................... </span>transportation systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>could be constituted asan //object of knowledge//<span class="BoldUnderline"> and as </span>//a vital target//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In strategic bombing, </span><span class="TitleChar">thus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">we see a new understanding of the national economy – as a collection of vital systems that are vulnerable to disruption.</span>

The impact is extinction—any amount of violence is justified for the utopia to be achieved.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dean ‘1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mitchell, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, “Demonic Societies: Liberalism, biopolitics, and sovereignty.” Ethnographic Explorations of the Postcolonial State, ed. Hanson and Stepputat, p. 55-58)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consider again the contrastive terms in which it is possible to view biopolitics and sovereignty. The final chapter in the first volume of the History of Sexuality that contrasts sovereignty and biopolitics is titled "Right of Death and Power over Life." The initial terms of the contrast between the two registers of government is thus between one that could employ power to put subjects to death, even if this right to kill was conditioned by the defense of the sovereign, and one that was concerned with the fostering of life. Nevertheless, each part of the contrast can be further broken down. </span>__The right of death can also be understood as "the right to take life or let live"; the power over life as the power "to foster life or disallow it__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">..............................................................</span>__and absolute danger, to expose it to the__<span class="underline"> risk of death and total destruction</span>__.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Foucault, </span><span class="underline">with the Nazi state we have an "absolutely racist </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">state, an absolutely</span><span class="underline"> murderous </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">state</span><span class="underline"> and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">an absolutely</span><span class="underline"> suicidal state"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (232), </span><span class="underline">all of which</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are superimposed and </span><span class="underline">converge on the Final Solution. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the Final Solution, the state tries to eliminate, through the Jews, all the other races, for whom the Jews were the symbol and the manifestation. </span><span class="underline">This includes, in one of Hitler's last acts, the order to destroy the bases of </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">bare</span><span class="underline"> life for the German people itself "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Final Solution for other races,</span><span class="underline"> the absolute suicide of the German race" is inscribed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, accordingto Foucault.</span><span class="underline"> in the functioning of the modern state </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(232). </span>

Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse the affirmative’s securitization of transportation infrastructure.

Our genealogical perspective allows for new ways of relating to transportation infrastructure outside the specter of violence.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Medina ’11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(José, professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt, “Toward a Foucaultian Epistemology of Resistance: Counter-Memory, Episte-mic Friction, and Guerrilla Pluralism,” Foucault Studies, No. 12, pp. 9-35, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The central goal of this paper is to show the emancipatory potential of the epistemological framework underlying Foucault’s work. More specifically, I will try to show that </span>__the Foucaultian approach__ __places practices of remembering and for-getting in the context of power relations in such a way that possibilities of resistance and subversion are brought to the fore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">....................................... </span>__room is made for their marginalized perspective to exert resistance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, until past epistemic battles are reopened and established frameworks become open to con-testation. On the other hand, the scholars and activists aiming to produce insurrec-tionary interventions could not get their critical activity off the ground if they did not draw on past and ongoing contestations, and the lived experiences and memories of those whose marginalized lives have become the silent scars of forgotten struggles.</span>

==States CP== 
**Text:**

==China FID== 
**Text:**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The People’s Republic of China should give the necessary funds to the United States federal government under the condition that the United States federal government build (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 20px;">**aff )** </span>**with those funds.**

**The counterplan competes – tests ‘its’ in the resolution – refers to possession and the necessity of U.S. investment**

**Also severs certainty – the world of the counterplan reserves the possibility of the U.S. saying no – aff certainty is key to avoid aff conditionality which means they can no link out of any DA – crushes ground**

<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The counterplan solves 100% of the case – it’s popular in both the U.S. and China, avoids politics</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Richter, ’11 – </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 7pt;">Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">Many Americans might be surprised to hear that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">this state of affairs leaves China's top leaders concerned</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">U</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">S</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">is falling</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">too far </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">behind</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, simply because its political system has such a hard time bringing about rational, long-term policy decisions. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">These leaders know</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the fates of the </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">U</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">S</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">and China are joined at the hip</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. With over $1 trillion in U.S. Treasury holdings, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the Chinese government has a vested interest in the future performance of the </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">U</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">S</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">tates. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">A country</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> eating its seed corn by </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">not investing enough in</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> public </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">infrastructure</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> and instead relying on the inherent "wisdom" of private investors </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">is a cause for concern</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">At the same time, the Chinese feel that they cannot in good conscience invest in more Treasury paper</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. What’s the point, they ask, in funding a defense budget the United States could not otherwise afford — or bankrolling cash-flow deficits in the Social Security accounts of the baby boom generation? </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Given all that, China's leaders must be pondering a truly revolutionary thought: How about using their dollar-denominated funds to capitalize an Infrastructure Bank</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> for the United States (IBUS), </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">as well as underwriting many of its upcoming investment projects</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">? At first glance, such a step would seem a heretical move for China's still-communist leaders. However, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">today’s alliances are no longer</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">so much </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">a matter of ideology, but of cash-flow recycling and balance sheet optimization</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. Vilifying a proper government planning role in this process and arguing that the private sector knows best is a stance that is anything but conservative. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">While</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">investment needs within China remain big, the country’s leaders</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> do </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">have a plan in place to fund them for decades</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. Whatever happens at home, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">they</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">have to make rational use of all the U.S. dollars they earn from exports</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> to the United States. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">What nobler, more rational and long-term-oriented purpose</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> than to fund the IBUS? </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">China</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, after all, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">is</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> a </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">rapidly aging</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> nation, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">with lots of financing needs to support its large population</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> in old age. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">How better to meet those needs than by investing in a demographically young nation now</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> (the United States) — </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">and then waiting for the returns on that investment to flow</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> back </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">to China</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> over time? </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Not even the Chinese military could be opposed to this plan</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">. While it might </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">superficially</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> be seen as</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> a </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">self-defeating</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, if not traitorous, act to strengthen one's primary opponent, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">those generals are business savvy these days. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">While the generals in China, as well as the leaders of the Chinese Community Party, may well be ready to underwrite the IBUS, U.S. politicians can be counted upon to go apoplectic if such a proposal were ever to come to pass. Still, it might turn out that China's plan for a truly stunning foreign mission to rebuild U.S. infrastructure will come to pass one way or another. In the end, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">it will be an amazing moment in the annals of global capitalism when China</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">— presumably the developing country, but really an old, mature power thinking about the global system and its own needs in a very long-term manner — </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">will come to the aid of</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">that upstart, </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">the </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">U</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">S</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">tates. A country eating its seed corn by not investing enough in public infrastructure and instead relying on the inherent "wisdom" of private investors is a cause for concern. While being presumed to be a mature industrial democracy, the United States really is a youngish country — and one that still has to contend with its errant ways. But “Uncle Wen,” his colleagues and successors have a clear and comforting message for Washington and the entire United States: “Don't worry, America. From our own history, we know about losing one's path and how painful it can be for a country and its entire population — and also the world. “We Chinese,” Premier Wen Jiabao says when he is daydreaming, “are here to help. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Let's hope</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> you </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Americans are enlightened enough to accept our assistance</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. “</span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Otherwise</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">, you </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">Americans</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">will be in for a serious detour, one that </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">will</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">not only </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">shortchange the future</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">prospects of many Americans, but </span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond;">of the entire world economy</span>//<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.” </span>


The counterplan solves unemployment – and it independently prevents China from selling U.S. debt-based treasuries
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reuters, 11</span> – largest news agency in Europe, (“China may channel reserves to U.S. infrastructure –minister”, Reuters, December 12, 2011, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/02/china-us-investment-idUSL4E7N224M20111202)//JKahn//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dec 2 (Reuters) - </span>China may channel part of its huge pool of foreign exchange reserves into investment in U.S. infrastructure, including rail and transportation networks<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Commerce Minister Chen Deming said on Friday. "</span>//China is unwilling to take on too much U.S. government debt//. We are willing to turn that money into investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he told U.S. Ambassador to China Gary Locke and U.S. businessmen. Chen did not elaborate on how China might channel some of the country's war chest of $3.2 trillion foreign currency reserves to invest in U.S. infrastructure, such as rail and transportation systems. "U.S. infrastructure in some areas needs rebuilding, for example its electricity grid, railways and transportation networks," he said. "</span>//This type of investment, even more, can help resolve the unemployment issue in the United States," //<span class="TitleChar">he added. Analysts believe about </span>//70 percent of China's currency reserves have been invested in dollar-denominated assets, including Treasuries//**__, despite__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Beijing's </span>**__gradual efforts to diversify away from the dollar. They don't expect China to__**// dump its holding of U.S. Treasuries for fear that such a move could hurt the U.S. fragile economic recovery//<span class="TitleChar">, </span>which in turn undermine China's growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Chen said the U.S. government should make its policies on foreign investment more transparent. In return, Locke said "we can and we must facilitate more Chinese investment into the United States." Other Chinese officials have also expressed interest in boosting investment in infrastructure in Western countries. China is keen to invest in the ailing infrastructure of Western countries, especially Britain, the chairman and chief executive of the Asian country's sovereign wealth fund wrote in the Financial Times. China will expand imports from the United States next year, Chen said, reiterating hits calls for Washington to relax its restrictions on high-tech exports to China. Beijing complains that those high-tech restrictions, imposed for security reasons, hold back purchases of U.S. goods that could narrow the trade gap, a claim rejected by Washington. Chen said Beijing is taking seriously U.S. concerns about China's protection of intellectual property rights and its government procurement policies.</span>//

//Chinese bond selling destroys the economy more than a __nuclear strike__//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Williams 4</span> – senior staff writer for the Asia Times, (Ian, “China-US: Double bubbles in danger of colliding,” Asia Times, 1/23/04, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/FA23Dj01.html_)//JKahn
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looking at the US-China bi-cycle in motion exacerbates the separate notes of caution that international agencies have sounded against each country. In fact, there is an inherent and additional precariousness in this double bubble act.Veteran New York money manager Arnold Schmeidler - who did not invest in dot.com IPOs - warns, "We are in a period unlike anything since the 1930s when the world is confronting deflationary forces." The president and founder of A R Schmeidler & Co Inc asks how sustainable it is that "American auto companies are selling their production at zero interest rates, because there is excess capacity. But China is building auto plants to make hundreds of thousands of vehicles, so we have extra capacity being brought into a market where we already have excess capacity. So the trend is towards 40 cents an hour wages and top quality competing against the US."Schmeidler concludes, "The single greatest force for deflation is when you have open trade between nations that have the ability to import the most efficient manufacturing expertise into a low-wage-base society, and so can produce products of the same quality as the high wage economy. The price pressure on the product allows consumers to get more for their money and they benefit. But it is disinflationary, if not deflationary."In fact, of course, China currently is lending the US the money to buy Chinese production.For example, as the "boom" of President George W Bush takes off, puzzled American commentators are asking where are all the extra jobs that the apparently positive indicators should be creating. In fact, they are being created abroad - mostly in China.China recycles trade surplus into US Treasury bonds American companies may have forgotten what Henry Ford propounded when he first built his Model T: If you do not pay high enough wages to your workers, they can't afford to buy your product. </span><span class="TitleChar">One simple basis for that Bush boom is that China is recycling its US$100 billion-plus trade surplus with the US back into dollars, and especially into US Treasury bonds. </span>//Almost half of the US Treasury bonds are now owned in Asia//<span class="TitleChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So China is financing Bush's bold economic experiment: running two or more wars simultaneously with a huge budget and trade deficit, and equally huge tax handouts for the richest Americans. </span>One has to question the long-term economic rationale for China of putting its long-term assets into very low-interest bonds in a currency that has already dropped recently by a third - <span class="TitleChar">and is going to drop even more. It certainly makes strategic sense: if push came to shove over, for example, the Taiwan Strait, all Beijing has to do is to mention the possibility of a sell order going down the wires. </span>//It would devastate the US economy more than any nuclear strike the Chinese could manage at the moment//<span class="TitleChar">.</span>

Collapse from Chinese bond-selling spills over globally
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wharton 9</span> – Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, (“Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” 9/2/09, [[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332)//JKahn]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the global economy appears headed toward recovery, concerns are growing that the United States' addiction to massive fiscal stimulus as an economic panacea could eventually lead to an even bigger crisis -- a loss of confidence in the U.S. dollar. Prominent voices are sounding dire warnings, worried that a gradual return to normalcy could undermine the political will needed to control deficit spending and prevent a disastrous long-term decline of the world's primary reserve currency. </span><span class="TitleChar">Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul A. Samuelson, for example, raised the specter of a "</span>//truly global financial panic" if countries funding the U.S. deficit, particularly China, decide their investments in U.S. Treasury securities// are no longer safe<span class="TitleChar">. Similarly, Warren Buffett warned in The New York Times that side-effects of the current fiscal intervention could be as dangerous as the financial crisis recently averted -- in the form of inflation </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">eroding the dollar's purchasing power.Preserving the dollar's strength has importance far beyond protecting American tourists from the shock of paying the equivalent of $25 for a hamburger in London or Tokyo.</span>//The U.S. dollar exchange rate is a key indicator of the nation's economic health relative to other countries//. A declining dollar leaves Americans worse off by driving up the cost of living<span class="TitleChar">, making imports of manufactured goods and commodities more expensive, and reducing the value of foreign investments when converted to </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">dollars. Economic experts are concerned about the dollar's health for a number of reasons. Most importantly, the scale of current trade and spending imbalances puts heavy downward pressure on the dollar's value over the long term. The U.S. imports far more goods and services than it exports, flooding international markets with dollars and undermining their value. The current account deficit -- the net balance of trade in goods, services, income and transfers -- was $700 billion in 2008. The U.S. trade deficit remains by far the world's largest, although it declined 35% in the first quarter of 2009 as the recession dramatically reduced demand for oil and other imports. "I see the potential for the dollar to deteriorate quite substantially in the long run," says Wharton finance professor Richard C. Marston, unless Congress and the Obama administration quickly reduce spending as the economy recovers. "If we continue to borrow from foreign countries to sustain our spending, eventually there will come a time when asset holders around the world will begin to wonder whether the U.S. is credit worthy," adds Marston, director of the Weiss Center for International Financial Research. Reflecting the size of the fiscal stimulus, the federal budget deficit is projected to be $1.6 trillion in 2009 -- the highest level since World War II -- amounting to 11% of gross domestic product (GDP), a dramatic increase from 3% in 2008. To fund its deficit spending, the U.S. depends on the willingness of major trading partners, such as China, Japan and Korea, to purchase and hold Treasury securities paying low interest rates. China has recently voiced serious concern about the potential inflationary impact of the U.S. fiscal stimulus on the value of China's $1.5 trillion in U.S. government securities and other dollar-denominated reserves.</span>



=**Round Reports:**= 
==**VBT:**== 
**Round 1 vs Kudos (Buses)**
__**1NC**__
**Spending**
**Politics**
**States**
**Case**

__**2NR**__
**Spending**
**Politics**
**Case**

**Round 4 vs Notre Dame (Mass Transit)**
__**1NC**__
**T**
**Water Tradeoff**
**Spending**
**Case, turns**

**__2NR__**
**__Spending__**
**__Water Tradeoff__**
**__Case, turns__**

**__Round 6: Medows (Dam Removal)__**

**__1NC__**
**__Politics__**
**__F/W__**
**__Chow K__**

**__2NR__**
**__Chow K__**
**__F/W__**
==**Stanford:**== 

**Round 2: vs Chaminade College Prep SM (Disabilities)**
__**1NC**__
**Politics**
**States**
**F/W**
**Case**

__**2NR**__
**Politics**
**F/W**
**Case**

**Round 4: Armijo BL (NIB)**
__**1NC**__
**Security**
**Federalism**
**States**
**T**
**Case**

__**2NR**__
**Security**
**Case**

**Round 5: Head Royce XD (Dam Removal K)**
__**1NC**__
__**Politics**__
__**Spilling CPw/warming nb**__
__**T**__
__**Case**__
__**f/w**__


__**2NR**__
**__Politics__**
**__Spilling CP__**
**__Case__**
**__f/w__**

**Octos:**__**1NC Harker NS (Title 11)**__
__**1NC**__
__**T**__
__**Politics**__
__**Spending**__
__**Case**__

__**2NR**__
__**T**__
__**Case**__
==**Berkley:**== 
**Round 2: LNU-Ice Breakers**
__**1NC**__
__**Coast Guard Tradeoff**__
__**Politics**__
**__Privatization__**
**__Spending__**
**__Case__**

**__2NR__**
**__Coast Guard Tradeoff__**
**__Politics__**
**__Spending__**
**__Case__**

**__Round 3: Sam Barlow- Nextgen__**
**__1NC__**
**__Politics__**
**__States__**
**__Security__**
**__Case, Turn__**

**__2NR__**
**__Politics__**
**__States__**
**__Case__**


**Round 5: Leland (Port Security)**

__**1NC**__
**__Security__**
__**T**__
__**Politics**__
__**States**__

__**2NR**__
__**Security**__

**Quarters: Highland Park (Bikes)**

__**1NC**__
__**Politics**__
__**States**__
__**Reps k**__
__**Case**__

__**2NR**__
__**Politics**__
__**States**__

==Nat Quals:== 
**Round 2 Damien MR**: **Port Dredging**

__**1NC**__
__**Politics**__
__**States Anthro**__
__**Case, Bio D**__

__**2NR**__
__**Politics**__
__**Bio D**__

__**Break 1: Poly ZH Natives**__
__**1NC**__
__**Reps K**__
__**Give Back The Land K/Case**__
__**Politics**__
__**States**__
__**T**__
__**F/W**__

__**2NR**__
__**Reps K**__
__**F/W**__

==**Woodward:**== 
**Round 2:**