[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Wake Forest== 
for any requests: lillian.jin.85@gmail.com
===Plan=== 
The United States Federal Government should establish a National Transportation Infrastructure Financing Authority to extend targeted loans and limited loan guarantees to its transportation infrastructure investment
===State Budgets=== 
States are stuck in a cycle of budget crises, forcing them to cut critical programs – Federal action is key to solve
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MCNICHOL ET AL ’12</span> – <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">Elizabeth McNichol- M.A. in Political Science University of Chicago. Senior Fellow specializing in state fiscal issues including methods of examining state budget processes and long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, served as Assistant Research Director of the Service Employees International Union in Washington, D.C. was a staff member of the Joint Finance Committee for the State of Wisconsin Legislature specializing in property taxes and state aid to local governments, AND*** Nicholas Johnson- graduate degree from Duke University's Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Director of the State Fiscal Project, which works to develop strategies for long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, encourage low-income tax relief, and improve the way states prioritize funding, received the Ian Axford Fellowship in Public Policy, a program financed by the New Zealand government and administered by Fulbright New Zealand. Through this fellowship, he spent six months as an advisor to the New Zealand Treasury and the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development; AND*** Phil Oliff - Policy Analyst with the State Fiscal Project; Masters degree in Public Policy from Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government (Elizabeth, Nicholas Johnson, Phil Oliff, “ States Continue to Feel Recession’s Impact “, March 21, http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=711)</span>
<span class="TitleChar">In states facing...likely to occur</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Federal government intervention is critical to saving states while also rebuilding infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NLC,10 (National League of Cities, “Invest in Transportation Infrastructure,”2010,[[http://www.nlc.org/influence-federal-policy/advocacy/legislative-advocacy/invest-in-transportation-infrastructure]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal investment in...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">hometowns—at risk.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">State budget cuts destroys bioterror responsiveness and deterrence effect</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AHLERS ’11- senior producer, transportation and regulation, for CNN (Mike M., “Bioterror security at risk”, December 20, http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2011/12/20/bioterror-security-at-risk/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Recent and</span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> proposed</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">deadly disease outbreak.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">International sanctions are failing-chemical weapons are easy to access and reproduce, now is a green light for terrorists</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Misey, member of the Organization for prevention of chemical weapons, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Robert, 7-12-12, ://www.opcw.org/about-chemical-weapons/chemical-terrorism/the-opcw-and-the-global-struggle-against-terrorism/ “Terrorism and the Availability of Chemical Weapons”. bcd)// </span>


//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Now, the abandoned...battle with us?</span>//


//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">First, mutated disease results in extinction</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Yu 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Victoria, 5/22/09, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate.” Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science. [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]])</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A pandemic will...human-viable strain.</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bioweapons will cause extinction – Outweighs nuclear war.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ochs 02 Richard, "BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHEDIMMEDIATELY" June 9http:</span>//www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Of all the weapons...IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Independently, even if disease doesn’t kill us, large casualties ensure nuclear retaliation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONLEY ‘3 (Lt Col Harry W. is chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, Headquarters Air Combat Command (ACC), Langley AFB, Virginia. Air & Space Power Journal – Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The number of...had been made.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Retaliation escalates</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">IRC ‘1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC, [[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear deterrence is...a pariah state. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And plan reduces impact by preventing disease spread---budget cuts hamper disease control and prevention resulting in outbreak</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">TAH ‘11 (Trust for America’s Health. “Protecting the Public from Diseases, Disasters, and Bioterrorism”. December, 2011. http://healthyamericans.org/report/92/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ready or Not...next emergency strikes.</span>

===Growth=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Protectionism</span>==== 

We’re at the brink of __double dip recession__ – creating a Federal Infrastructure Bank is key to solve
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARHSALL & THOMASSON ‘11</span> - president and founder of the Progressive Policy Institute (PPI); found the Democratic Leadership Council, serving as its first policy director; AND*** Scott Thomasson - director of economic and domestic policy for the Progressive Policy Institute and manages PPI's Innovative Economy Project and E3 Initiative (Will, Scott Thomasson, “Sperling on “Deferred Maintenance””, October 7, [[http://progressivepolicy.org/sperling-on-%E2%80%9Cdeferred-maintenance%E2%80%9D]])**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s hard to...three million more jobs</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, economic decline increases the risk of __war__—//__strong statistical support__//.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Royal 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Less intuitive is...to those views.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Unemployment causes backlash against free trade and China bashing</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">JIMENEZ ‘12 - Master's student at Georgetown University; degree in political science and international relations from CIDE, Mexico City. (“Protectionism Makes Comeback As Recovery Stalls”, http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/01/protectionism-makes-comeback-as-recovery-stalls/)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As a result...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">its very authoritarianism?</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">China bashing causes war with China</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">REUTERS ‘11 (“Analysis: Obama to challenge China on trade as election nears”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-usa-china-trade-idUSTRE79C72820111013)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Analysts cautioned the...be mutually harmful.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Protectionism snowballs and causes nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Panzner 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Continuing calls for...new world war.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Cheong ’00(Ching, 6-25, Lexis, No one gains in war over Taiwan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO...above everything else.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2: Warming</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">POSEN ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> - Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the postwar...following priority measures.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Multilateral economic cooperation solves key global threats – especially warming</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MATTHEWS ‘7 - president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Jessica, "Europe and the US: Confronting Global Challenges," 11/8, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/transcript_mandelson.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Now, the question...and energy security.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Warming is real and existential – stopping it is a question of slowing emissions, not total elimination</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deibel 7 (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, there is...existence of life.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Increased warming releases methane from the tundra — impact is extinction</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Atcheson 4 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">John Atcheson is the former Department of Energy senior policy analyst and geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies Ticking Time Bomb)</span>
The Arctic Council's...<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">sure will happen</span>

===Solvency=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">one-time investment</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> into the Infrastructure Bank empirically solves and avoids all turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">LIKOSKY ‘11 – a senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Michael B., July 12, “Banking on the Future”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/opinion/13likosky.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">For decades, we...possess modern infrastructure. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Only federal action solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">HALLEMAN ‘11 - Business graduate with analytical and program management experience across a range of transportation and infrastructure issues; Head of Communications & Media Relations at International Road Federation (Brendan, “Establishing a National Infrastructure Bank - examining precedents and potential”, October 2011, [[http://issuu.com/transportgooru/docs/ibank_memo_-_brenden_halleman]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The merits of...“state budget issues”.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The bank is key – doubles each dollar at low borrowing costs</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ANDERSON ‘11 – the president and CEO of CG/LA Infrastructure (Norman, “The Case For The Kerry-Hutchison Infrastructure Bank”, March 25, http://progressivepolicy.org/the-case-for-the-kerry-hutchison-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">As a small...for every citizen.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The bank </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">more than doubles</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> our employment rate</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MSNBC ’11 (“Bank plan would help build bridges, boost jobs“, July 6, http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/43606379/ns/business-eye_on_the_economy/#.T7QxBlKbw1A)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">China announced last...between 27,800 and 34,800 jobs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Federal infrastructure bank is key – coordination is crucial for business confidence</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">COEA ‘12 - Council of Economic Advisers, Department of Treasury (“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, March 23, http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget...</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">regarding infrastructure investment.</span>

==Alpharetta== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States Federal Government should substantially invest in the Next Generation Air Traffic Management System transportation infrastructure.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">NextGen won’t be completed due to lack of commitment – Current funding is miniscule</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ryan Holeywell, staff writer at GOVERNING and Daniel Lippman, GOVERNING contributor, April 12, [“The 5 Biggest U.S. Infrastructure Projects, Plus 5 at Risk,” Governing, [[http://www.governing.com/topics/transportation-infrastructure/gov-5-biggest-us-infrastructure-projects-plus-5-at-risk.html]]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The project, which aviation administrators began planning in 2003, is dubbed NextGen, and proponents say it would revolutionize air travel in this country by switching from radar-based to satellite-based flight-tracking technology. That, along with other technological advances like improved weather forecasting and communication systems, would allow planes to fly more direct routes instead of following the existing, inefficient flight paths that are arranged like highways in the sky. The result: More flights in the air at any given time, fewer delays and less wasted fuel. But the cost is enormous. FAA officials say they’ll need between $20 billion and $27 billion for the project through 2025. The Government Accountability Office says the cost could actually be as high as $160 billion. Meanwhile, there’s an ongoing debate about what proportion of the cost should be picked up by the airline industry, which has historically been skeptical of the benefits of government-mandated technologies. A recent report from the Department of Transportation’s inspector general said the system will likely face delays because the “FAA has not made critical, longer-term design decisions on NextGen ground and aircraft systems.” To complicate matters, the FAA has spent more than four years without a long-term funding bill, thanks to congressional inaction. That’s made it difficult to pursue larger projects like this one. A long-term bill signed earlier this year should help on that front, but the funding for the effort is still in question. The president’s 2013 budget calls for just over $1 billion for NextGen, which is a drop in the bucket. In a Congress focused on spending cuts, launching something like NextGen could be tough. “I’m guessing we’ll muddle along,” says David Plavin, an aviation consultant. “They won’t provide the big, incremental investment … that’s ultimately necessary.”</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Delay or cancellation of FAA enactment causes industry skepticism – Undercuts NextGen benefits</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dillingham, Director of Physical Infrastructure Issues at the US GAO, 11</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gerald L. Dillingham, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues , 10-5-11, [“FAA Has Made Some Progress in Implementation, but Delays Threaten to Impact Costs and Benefits ,” Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Aviation, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of Representatives, www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-141T] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">To maintain credibility with aircraft operators that NextGen will be implemented, FAA must deliver systems and capabilities on time so that operators have incentives to invest in the avionics that will enable NextGen to operate as planned. As we have previously reported, a past FAA program’s cancellation contributed to skepticism about FAA’s commitment to follow through with its plans. That industry skepticism, which we have found lingers today, could delay the time when significant NextGen benefits—such as increased capacity and more direct, fuelsaving routing—are realized. A number of NextGen benefits depend upon having a critical mass of properly equipped aircraft. Reaching that critical mass is a significant challenge because the first aircraft operators to equip will not obtain a return on their investment until many other operators also equip.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 1 is Aviation</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Two internal links - first is congestion.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Airport congestion crushes economic competitiveness. Nextgen solves </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schank 6/23/12 - [Joshua L. Schank President & CEO Eno Center for Transportation [[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">We often think of airports as local economic generators, and they are that, but some also have substantial national importance. The aviation network is dependent on large hub airports for the efficient and timely movement of passengers across the country and the world. A safe and reliable aviation network is essential for maintaining our competitiveness in the global economy. Unfortunately, we are in danger of losing our edge in this area because of congestion. Successful NextGen implementation could greatly alleviate the problem, but even if that happens airlines could take advantage of the new capacity and provide more frequent flights. Once economic growth picks up again we are likely to see airport congestion and delays increase as well. Airports such as Newark, San Francisco, and Chicago O’Hare already have approximately 30-40 percent of their flights delayed. Airports face substantial challenges in trying to tackle this issue on their own. The most widely recommended solution is pricing airport runways by time of day. But this politically unpopular solution has faced substantial opposition from communities such as smaller cities flying into hubs, or general aviation aircraft that are concerned about being effectively priced out of the market for a given airport. Congested airports would have a much greater chance of success if they were trying to tackle congestion in partnership with the federal government and other local transportation agencies. The federal role could be improved by dedicating a portion of the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) to provide grants to airports in regions that have a plan to work collaboratively to reduce congestion and overcome some of the political barriers to more effective pricing. Or the AIP could be retooled to set specific performance goals for airports and rewarding achievement. However it is done, there is a clear national interest at play here and the federal government needs to be more involved. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Puts airlines on the brink of collapse</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">ALPA, ‘12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees,[[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Introduction The United States’ airline industry and its employees operate in a hypercompetitive international marketplace. The U.S. airline industry has lost $53 billion since 1999, on a net basis. Only three years out of the last ten have been profitable. This is an industry that has been unable to meet its cost of capital and is known for not generating healthy margins, even in the best of times. It is very clear that the airline industry continues to face significant challenges. Competition from foreign airlines, which are often state owned or heavily state sponsored and vertically integrated, and operate from countries with low or nonexistent tax and regulatory burdens, is growing rapidly and impeding international growth for U.S. airlines. In addition, foreign airlines are expanding into markets previously dominated by U.S. airlines, threatening our carriers in their own backyard. U.S. airlines, as a result, find themselves in survival mode, adapting to the global marketplace that presents an uneven playing field for U.S. airlines. Around the world, the expansion of airlines like Emirates and others with similar business models threaten U.S. carriers on international routes. Many foreign carriers do not encounter tax and regulatory burdens like by U.S. airlines. The current taxes and fees the U.S. airline industry endures are higher than nearly every other industry in the United States, adding to the financial burden on the airlines and the traveling public Today, the commercial airline industry leads all others in America with 17 unique taxes and fees from the federal government, resulting in 20 percent or more of the total airline ticket prices going to taxes. These taxes discourage commercial flying in the United States. Further, the tendency of the U.S. government to emphasize consumer interests at the expense of the financial viability of the industry has resulted in a series of passenger protection regulations that place a significant financial burden on U.S. airlines, exacerbating the cost disadvantages that U.S. carriers face in the international marketplace.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Switching to NextGen is vital to sustaining the aviation industry and national economic growth</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wood 10 (Janice wood; 3-9-10; “Forecast links NextGen and national economic growth”; writer for General Aviation News;[[http://www.generalaviationnews.com/2010/03/09/forecast-links-nextgen-and-national-economic-growth/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">WASHINGTON, D.C. — The FAA is forecasting that key airspace safety and efficiency modernization efforts will play a vital role in spurring long-term sustained growth in air travel and the nation’s overall economic health. The forecast, which comes after a short-term period of slow growth in aviation activity, underscores the need for the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) and continued investment in airport infrastructure projects, officials said upon releasing it March 9. “A safe, efficient and vibrant aviation system is vital to our nation’s economic health,” said Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood. “We must find long-term solutions that will keep the U.S. aviation industry competitive and moving forward into the future.” While much of the forecast deals with airlines, there are some GA-specific predictions as well: •The general aviation fleet will increase from 229,149 aircraft in 2009 to 278,723 in 2030, growing an average of 0.9% a year. •Fixed-wing turbine aircraft will grow at a rate of 3.1% per year, fixed-wing piston aircraft will grow at a rate of 0.1% per year, and rotorcraft will grow at a rate of 2.8% per year. •General aviation hours flown are forecast to increase from 23.3 million in 2009 to 38.9 million in 2030, an average annual growth rate of 2.5% a year. •Fixed-wing turbine aircraft hours flown will grow at a rate of 4.6% per year, fixed-wing piston aircraft hours flown will grow at a rate of 1% a year, and rotorcraft hours flown will grow at a rate of 3% per year. The 20-year forecast calls for total operations at airports to decrease 2.7% to 51.5 million in 2010, and then grow at an average annual rate of 1.5%, reaching 69.6 million in 2030. At the nation’s 35 busiest airports, operations are expected to increase 60% from 2010 to 2030. “This forecast makes a very strong business case for NextGen,” said FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt. “Without NextGen, we won’t be able to handle the increased demand for service that this forecast anticipates.” NextGen is transforming air traffic control from the ground-based radar system of today to a satellite-based system of the future. FAA officials say NextGen technologies and procedures will increase capacity and safety and reduce fuel burn, carbon emissions and noise by providing more efficient air routes and procedures. Other innovations include improved weather forecasting, data networking and digital communications. Hand in hand with these state-of-the-art technologies are airport improvements that are beginning to give pilots and controllers a more precise picture of the location of aircraft and vehicles on runways and taxiways. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And the stimulus especially true in the context of NextGen— there will be a job spillover</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nexa Advisors 11 “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, April,[[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">On behalf of the Air Transport Action Group, Oxford Economic Forecasting xx found that catalytic multiplier for aerospace in North America to be 2.42 (Figure 12). NEXA Advisors applied this factor to the combined direct, indirect, and induced economic benefits and found the resulting catalytic benefits of the Fund in 2018 are estimated to be $16.6 billion. An interesting anecdote is that the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) found in a recent study xxi that globally, every 100 jobs generated by air transport creates or supports an additional 610 jobs in other industries. Thus by extension, the Fund could be expected to create or support 2 million jobs in other industries through catalytic effects</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second - sequestration.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">It's coming and will destroy the economy. Aerospace spending spurs job growth</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blakey 2/13/12</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Marion C. Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries Association, former FAA administrator “350,000 Aerospace and Defense Workers' Jobs at Stake” [[http://traveltips.ulitzer.com/node/2164551]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The budget released by the administration today is not a shot over the bow of the American aerospace and defense worker – it's a direct hit. As a result of the approximately $487 billion, ten-year cut to the defense budget alone, buying power to procure technologies that fuel U.S. military strength will be reduced in 2013 by approximately $20 billion. The American warfighter and our national security are not the only victims of this first, drastic result of the 2011 Budget Control Act. The budget released today takes direct aim at the first wave of 350,000 aerospace and defense workers who will be out of work if Congress does not find a solution to the sequestration trigger being pulled in 321 days. In the mean time, hundreds of companies that together form the "defense industrial base" have already begun to downsize in response to the cuts already enacted. And lest we forget, sequestration-driven budget cuts will most certainly hit the FAA and NASA as well. More aerospace companies and workers in all 50 states will share the pain of those 350,000 employees projected to be jobless following a $1 trillion cut to the defense budget. The solution to our country's budget crisis does not lie in further indiscriminate cuts to defense that put our country at risk and will throw hundreds of thousands of skilled workers out of their jobs. The solution does not lie in reversing progress toward safer, more efficient air travel made through investments to date in the FAA's NextGen air traffic management system. And renting Russian rockets to take American astronauts into space sends American space jobs offshore and poses an immediate threat to our country's goal of maintaining a space program that is second to none in the world. There is no rocket science to finding the only solution to America's budget crisis. Reform of entitlement programs and current tax policies are the only answers to a multi-trillion dollar budget deficit. The notion that adequate spending on our country's defense, infrastructure and future in space is in any way "discretionary" is, simply put, dangerous. The one-million aerospace and defense workers in America are proud, patriotic, well-educated and highly skilled. As the election season heats up, current and aspiring members of Congress will face these one-million voters who demand an answer to the central question of today's budget crisis – are those we elect to office prepared to make the tough decisions on realistic, long-term budget reform? The thousands of aerospace and defense workers who find themselves out of work this year as a result of the budget crisis will undoubtedly be the first to demand an answer. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, Next Gen is key to the aviation industry – increased capacity is vital to economic growth </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kramer 5/22/12[Hillary Kramer, renound stock broker, financial contributor to forbes and several other news organizations, BA from Wellesley College, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/hilarykramer/2012/05/22/building-the-runway-to-the-skies-of-tomorrow/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">It seems that these days, the general public is a bit weary of commercial air travel – and who can blame them? We hear countless stories of TSA screeners taking their jobs perhaps too seriously, to say nothing of the general unpleasantness and inconvenience of arriving 90 minutes early to your flight, removing your shoes and getting full-body scanned. Despite these admitted irritations, I think it’s important to take a step back and realize just how complex and technologically sophisticated an achievement it is – even a miracle, you might say – that we, the traveling public, make it safely from departure gate to arrival gate day-in and day-out. It’s really quite impressive, especially considering that today’s air traffic network is based on systems developed more than 60 years ago. This is both good news (that the network is resilient) and bad (the network is old). Demand for air travel – and the resulting pressure this demand places on the existing aviation network – is imminently on the verge of exceeding our system’s limits. Consider that in 1995, our air-traffic management system accommodated 580 million passengers per year on 30,000 flights per day. Just 15 years later, in 2010, those numbers jumped to 712 million passengers per year on 43,000 flights per day. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) estimates that, if left unaddressed, increased air congestion could cost the American economy $22 billion annually in lost market activity by 2022. The reason for this is simple: Aviation is now the premier enabler of global commerce. $562.1 billion in goods were transported in 2008 alone; $249.2 billion was spent on direct expenditures by air travelers in 2009, the same year in which aviation made up 5.2 percent of total U.S. GDP. This is a staggering reality. If technology cannot keep up, the entire industry will face massive economic and logistical difficulties that will affect millions of travelers and businesses annually. The entire fabric of global connectivity is at risk. Thankfully, though, innovation and technology are advancing at a rate faster than any previous generation thought possible. We now live in a world whose aviation technology needs are light-years ahead of those in which our current systems were first implemented. The landscape has changed, and our aviation technology must change with it if we are to address the aviation challenges of tomorrow – not only for the airlines and the air travel market, but for the traveling consumer as well. The technology is there, in the form of what the FAA calls the Next Generation Air Transportation System, or NextGen. NextGen is unique in that it represents an incremental but innovative and integrated system that will vastly improve efficiencies for both the traveling public and the aviation industry. It moves air-traffic management systems away from ground-based radar, instead relying on more advanced satellite-based technology to accommodate continued growth and increased safety. By switching to GPS-based systems, airlines can get more planes in the air; these planes can fly, safely, in closer proximity to each other; and the airlines can run more routes, getting more people to more places more quickly. According to the FAA, “This evolution is vital to meeting future demand, and to avoiding gridlock in the sky and at our nation’s airports.” If fully implemented, FAA analysts indicate that NextGen is expected to save $123 billion in costs by 2030. And, as a bonus, NextGen is expected to significantly reduce aviation’s impact on the environment by allowing for more direct routes. In fact, according to the International Air Transport Association, cutting flight times by just one minute per flight on a global basis – something that NextGen technology would easily make a reality – would save 4.8 tons of carbon dioxide emissions every year. The private sector has a role to play here as well, particularly companies like Boeing, Booz Allen Hamilton, Exelis and Raytheon. Ultimately, NextGen’s success will depend on the leadership and contribution of these and a handful of other companies that are playing a central role in its development and the overall evolution of air-traffic management. But while technology is the inanimate core of NextGen, the benefits of these new systems and technologies will never be realized without air traffic controllers and other aviation industry professionals who undergo efficient and successful training, which is arguably the most critical element to NextGen. (After all, the new technology is rather useless if no one knows how to properly operate it.) At first, training does seem to be a huge challenge as we look forward to the implementation of this next generation of global air traffic technology. But, it actually won’t be so ominous and will ultimately be a very beneficial process integrally woven into NextGen. In fact, Raytheon (RTN), in particular, comes to mind for its role in providing training. Active in air-traffic management for over 60 years, Raytheon is a major player in providing both systems and training for all dimensions of air-traffic control. Currently, Raytheon trains allU.S.air-traffic controllers, in addition to providing 60 percent of all air-traffic control training worldwide. Raytheon has delivered more than 350 air-traffic management systems to more than 60 countries, and companies like Raytheon will be critical partners for the FAA as the agency continues to implement (and require training for) NextGen technologies. Of course, while all of this sounds great in theory, NextGen has had its bumps in the road along the way. Cost has been one of the more contentious issues, with the FAA and the airlines currently embroiled in a tug-of-war when it comes to picking up the $29 – 42 billion check. Despite challenges in its development and execution, it is vital that NextGen be implemented as rapidly as possible in order to ensure the ability ofU.S.aviation systems to meet traveler and cargo demand, achieve efficiencies and minimize the impact of aviation on the environment. Simply put, NextGen will succeed if it can equip the talented individuals who manage and oversee America’s airspace to meet the growing demands of tomorrow’s aviation challenges – all while ensuring you and I make it safely, happily and more efficiently to our arrival gate. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, Aerospace is uniquely key to the economy – largest industry </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Blakely 4/2/12</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Marion C. Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries Association, former FAA administrator,[[http://www.bizjournals.com/washington/blog/fedbiz_daily/2012/04/sequestration-a-countdown-to-disaster.html?page=all]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The following came from Robert Stevens, chairman and CEO of Lockheed Martin during a keynote last month: “The aerospace and defense industry cannot wait until a lame duck session to deal with the consequences of sequestration. We are already taking action by not hiring and training new workers, not investing in new plants and equipment, and not investing in new R&D. An additional $53 billion a year in defense cuts starting in January 2013 would be catastrophic for our industry and our nation.” That is the reality this industry faces, even before the January 2013 cuts kick in. It comes after coverage of two staggering numbers tied to Maryland and Virginia: 63,321 and 159,000. The first number is the number of aerospace and defense jobs in these states, according to a report by Deloitte commissioned by the Aerospace Industries Association. The second figure – almost three times the first – is the number of total jobs at risk in these states if Congress doesn’t put a stop to the $1 trillion in defense cuts enacted in the budget deal last summer, according to a study led by local economist Dr. Stephen Fuller. Indeed, the damage from these cuts will reach far beyond the defense community – almost three American jobs lost for every aerospace and defense job eliminated. These are Main Street American jobs that grow from the $16 billion dollars in revenues aerospace and defense generates in Maryland and Virginia. They include small businesses, services, and spending that cut across the entire economy as Americans spend their paychecks on things like housing, food and healthcare. These are local businesses – “mom and pops” – not mega corporations. This is the danger confronting our states from the Budget Control Act of 2011, which cuts $1.2 trillion from the budget over 10 years starting Jan. 2, 2013. Nearly half of that will come from automatic defense “sequestration,” which is on top of $487 billion already being cut from defense through the appropriations currently underway. The rest will come from other discretionary – but critical – spending at such agencies as the Federal Aviation Administration and NASA. Scary figures. Even scarier is that our area is particularly vulnerable to this poison pill given the who’s-who of aerospace and defense businesses large and small that make metropolitan Washington, D.C. their home and give such a boost to the local economy. The findings in Deloitte’s study, The Aerospace and Defense Industry in the U.S.: A financial and economic impact study, are impressive: $324 billion in sales; a $42.2 billion positive trade balance – the largest of any industry. Between Virginia and Maryland, exports exceed $1.6 billion, cash income tax payments are nearly $119 billion and the average wage is $83,000 per year, almost twice the national average. All of this puts what’s at stake in a really glaring spotlight – like a surreal movie to say the least. There are many voices on both sides of the aisle in and out of government speaking out against sequestration. The ramifications go far beyond defense. AIA estimates the Next Generation Air Transportation System – replacing 1950s radar technology with a satellite-based system to guide air traffic – will be cut 30 to 50 percent. NASA’s programs to develop a new vehicle to get our astronauts to the space station, or out beyond earth orbit, are already under severe budget strain. Sequestration will mean additional years paying millions to the Russians to launch our astronauts to the International Space Station. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sequestration will decimate productivity and growth</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIA 12 - [The Aerospace Industries Association is the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the United States’, [[http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=we372]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">In its December 2011 year-end review and forecast, the Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) reported expected annual sales to top $218 billion, marking the eighth consecutive year of growth. Despite persistently sluggish market conditions around the globe, the aerospace industry remains one of the most significant contributors to the US economy. Economic markers worth noting include the 3.2-percent increase in civil aircraft sales, driven by growth in the Asian market and strong demand for fuel-efficient aircraft. Military aircraft, missile and space sales also posted gains. US aerospace exports rebounded 12 percent to reach $90 billion, after falling during the previous two years. The industry’s positive trade balance of $57.4 billion is the largest trade surplus of any business sector. This is good news for the US economy and the 3.5 million workers who depend on the aerospace and defense industry for their livelihoods. However, a storm cloud brews, threatening to wash out these economic, national security and technological contributions. It’s called sequestration. Last November, the congressionally mandated super committee failed to reach consensus on deficit reductions under the Budget Control Act. One more example of US government in inaction, this triggered cuts that amounted to more than a trillion from the federal budget. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global nuclear war</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Merlini 11 — nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (Cesare Merlini, "A Post-Secular World?," Survival, Vol. 53(2)) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world order illustrate the range of possibilities, albeit at the risk of oversimplification. The first scenario entails the premature crumbling of the post-Westphalian system. One or more of the acute tensions apparent today evolves into an open and traditional conflict between states, perhaps even involving the use of nuclear weapons. The crisis might be triggered by a collapse of the global economic and financial system, the vulnerability of which we have just experienced, and the prospect of a second Great Depression, with consequences for peace and democracy similar to those of the first. Whatever the trigger, the unlimited exercise of national sovereignty, exclusive self-interest and rejection of outside interference would likely be amplified, emptying, perhaps entirely, half-full glass of multilateralism, including the UN and the European Union. Many of the more likely conflicts, such as between Israel and Iran or India and Pakistan, have potential religious dimensions. Short of war, tensions such as those related to immigration might become unbearable. Familiar issues of creed and identity could be exacerbated. One way or another, the secular rational approach would be sidestepped by a return to theocratic absolutes, competing or converging with secular absolutes such as unbridled nationalism.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Statistics prove - global recessions cause nuclear conflicts</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent stales. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level. Pollins (20081 advances Modclski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin. 19SJ) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fcaron. 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately. Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states arc likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Mom berg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write. The linkage, between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict lends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other (Hlomhen? & Hess. 2(102. p. X9> Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blombcrg. Hess. & Wee ra pan a, 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DcRoucn (1995), and Blombcrg. Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force arc at least indirecti) correlated. Gelpi (1997). Miller (1999). and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that Ihe tendency towards diversionary tactics arc greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked lo an increase in the use of force. In summary, rcccni economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict al systemic, dyadic and national levels.' This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth decline results in power transitions that cause conflict. Innovation is key.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tellis, senior associate at Carnegie, 2009 - Senior Associate @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues. [Ashley J. Tellis (Research Director of the Strategic Asia program @ National Bureau of Asian Research, “Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Vol.4, No. 1, Spring 2009] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">This reassuring fact notwithstanding, hegemonic transitions still occurred regularly in international politics, a reality that points to two critical insights about succession struggles in the international system — which is a subject that ought to be of great significance to the United States and its allies as well as to its adversaries. First, struggles for hegemony in global politics are rarely limited to dyadic encounters between states. These struggles involve not only the existing hegemon and the rising challenger as the preeminent antagonists — roles that many expect will be played respectively by the United States and China over the long term — but also the entire cast of international characters, including non-state actors involved in economic processes, and the nature of their involvement in the competition become relevant to the succession process. Thus, the nature of the alliances orchestrated and managed by the United States (and possibly China as well) in the future, the relationship between state entities and the global economic system and the relative burdens borne by every actor involved in this contest become relevant to the outcome. Second, and equally importantly, who wins in the ensuing struggle — whether that struggle is short or long, peaceful or violent — is as important as by how much. This is particularly relevant because the past record unerringly confirms that the strongest surviving state in the winning coalition usually turns out to be the new primate after the conclusion of every systemic struggle. Both Great Britain and the United States secured their respective ascendancies in this way. Great Britain rose through the wreckage of the wars with Louis XIV and with Napoleon. The United States did so through the carnage of the hot wars with Hitler and Hirohito, finally achieving true hegemony through the detritus of the Cold War with Stalin and his successors. If the United States is to sustain this hard-earned hegemony over the long term, while countering as necessary a future Chinese challenge should it emerge, Washington will need to amass the largest differential in power relative not only to its rivals but also to its friends and allies. Particularly in an era of globalization, this objective cannot be achieved without a conscious determination to follow sensible policies that sustain economic growth, minimize unproductive expenditures, [and] strengthen the national innovation system, maintain military capabilities second to none and enjoin political behaviors that evoke the approbation of allies and neutral states alike. The successful pursuit of such policies will enable the United States to cope more effectively with near-term challenges as well, including the war on terrorism and managing threatening regional powers, and will ineluctably require — to return full circle — engaging the central tasks identified earlier as facing the new US administration. These tasks involve the need to satisfactorily define the character of desirable US hegemony, the need for sound policies that will renew the foundations of US strength, and the need to recover the legitimacy of US purposes and actions. What is clearly implied is that the principal burdens facing the next US president transcend Asia writ large. The success of these pursuits, however, will inevitably impact Asia in desirable ways, even as the resolution of several specifically Asian problems would invariably contribute to the conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals. Policy Implications US efforts in three areas will reaffirm its role as global leader: supporting a durable framework for international trade, maintaining unqualified military supremacy and ensuring the delivery of certain public goods, such as peace and security, freedom of navigation and a clean environment. The renewal of traditional US economic might requires policies that favor growth and innovation, increased capital and labor pools, and sustained pursuit of total factor productivity. Legitimacy is an important facet of US power that has eroded over the last eight years. The US can secure legitimacy for future political acts by shaping world opinion through a combination of decisiveness, cultivation of key allied support and attentiveness to the views of others. Pg. 54-56</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">These power imbalances lead to nuclear lashout</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goldstein, professor of global politics and international relations, 2007 (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, as economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, other states are empowered. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and challengers eventually emerge who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to the ultima ratio of international politics, force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘hegemonic wars’, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve the order in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth (much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its acquisition of technology in key sectors that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the United States, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable, Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Growth is key to solve the environment- none of their offense applies- it assumes consumption, not growth</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reich 10 [Robert Bernard, August 17th, is an American politician, academic, writer, and political commentator. He served as the 22nd United States Secretary of Labor under President Bill Clinton, from 1993 to 1997. Reich is currently Chancellor's Professor of Public Policy at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley, a former Harvard University professor and the former Maurice B. Hexter Professor of Social and Economic Policy at the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Economic growth is slowing in the United States. It’s also slowing in Japan, France, Britain, Italy, Spain and Canada. It’s even slowing in China. And it’s likely to be slowing soon in Germany. If governments keep hacking away at their budgets while consumers almost everywhere are becoming more cautious about spending, global demand will shrink to the point where a worldwide dip is inevitable. You might ask yourself: So what? Why do we need more economic growth anyway? Aren’t we ruining the planet with all this growth -- destroying forests, polluting oceans and rivers, and spewing carbon into the atmosphere at a rate that’s already causing climate chaos? Let’s just stop filling our homes with so much stuff. The answer is economic growth isn’t just about more stuff. Growth is different from consumerism. Growth is really about the capacity of a nation to produce everything that’s wanted and needed by its inhabitants. That includes better stewardship of the environment as well as improved public health and better schools. (The Gross Domestic Product is a crude way of gauging this but it’s a guide. Nations with high and growing GDPs have more overall capacity; those with low or slowing GDPs have less.) Poorer countries tend to be more polluted than richer ones because they don’t have the capacity both to keep their people fed and clothed and also to keep their land, air and water clean. Infant mortality is higher and life spans shorter because they don’t have enough to immunize against diseases, prevent them from spreading, and cure the sick. In their quest for resources rich nations (and corporations) have too often devastated poor ones – destroying their forests, eroding their land, and fouling their water. This is intolerable, but it isn’t an indictment of growth itself. Growth doesn’t depend on plunder. Rich nations have the capacity to extract resources responsibly. That they don’t is a measure of their irresponsibility and the weakness of international law. How a nation chooses to use its productive capacity -- how it defines its needs and wants -- is a different matter. As China becomes a richer nation it can devote more of its capacity to its environment and to its own consumers, for example. The United States has the largest capacity in the world. But relative to other rich nations it chooses to devote a larger proportion of that capacity to consumer goods, healthcare and the military. And it uses comparatively less to support people who are unemployed or destitute, pay for non-carbon fuels, keep people healthy and provide aid to the rest of the world. Slower growth will mean even more competition among these goals. Faster growth greases the way toward more equal opportunity and a wider distribution of gains. The wealthy more easily accept a smaller share of the gains because they can still come out ahead of where they were before. Simultaneously, the middle class more willingly pays taxes to support public improvements like a cleaner environment and stronger safety nets. It’s a virtuous cycle. We had one during the Great Prosperity that lasted from 1947 to the early 1970s. Slower growth has the reverse effect. Because economic gains are small, the wealthy fight harder to maintain their share. The middle class, already burdened by high unemployment and flat or dropping wages, fights ever more furiously against any additional burdens, including tax increases to support public improvements. The poor are left worse off than before. It’s a vicious cycle. We’ve been in one most of the last 30 years. No one should celebrate slow growth. If we’re entering into a period of even slower growth, the consequences could be worse</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 2 is Airpower -</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Confidence in aviation is key to US use of the air – NextGen mitigates inevitable disruptions. Forces tech growth and adaptation</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force and Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, 10 — Oliver Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force and Kelly Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, 1-10, [“SUStAininG tHE AiR COMMOnS,” Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World, Center for a New American Security,[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=111841]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Contesting the Air Commons Over time, the air commons became dependent on a complex system of norms, infrastructure, technology, and technical standards to meet the demands of a growing traveling public. This complexity, and the steps nations have taken to master it, is producing trends that could eventually disrupt the air commons. During peacetime, the density of the system that supports the air commons provides abundant opportunities for intentional or accidental disruption. Similarly, the enduring ability of the United States to master the air during wartime drives adversaries to develop responses that threaten to undermine traditional advantages enjoyed by U.S. forces. PeACeTIMe CHAlleNGes AND THReATs The flying public’s high level of confidence in civil aviation’s safety is a prerequisite for the effective use of the open air commons. During peacetime, challenges to the air commons come from intentional acts and mistakes that undermine the perceived safety and efficiency of air travel. Indeed, given the unique role of the air commons in moving people, the perception of flight safety often outweighs reality and a high level of confidence is essential for the effective openness of the air commons. However, there is increasing evidence that air traffic control systems are at risk of technical or intentional degradation. Beyond the air traffic control system that binds thousands of daily flights, terrorist attacks in the air or on the ground are likely to continue, and potentially increase in lethality. These shortfalls may decrease the reliability and safety of air travel, distorting how the air commons is used. Brittle Air Traffic Control Systems The U.S. air traffic control system (ATC) is burdened with a navigation system that dates to the 1950s and an airspace management system from the 1980s, with its many single points of failure and interconnected vulnerabilities. The demand for the air commons is outstripping the American civil aviation infrastructure’s ability to safely and efficiently manage movement within it. 21 Problems associated with burned-out circuit boards, software upgrades, power outage’s, or even a car hitting a single utility pole, reveal a lack of resilience or redundancy. 22 Forecasts indicate that domestic and international air traffic will exceed the limit of current ATC systems. 23 Technological advances, such as the advent of radar and the integration of the Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) system, allow for increased capacity for commercial air travel. An accurate understanding of an airplane’s location — with three-dimensional positioning — empowers air traffic controllers to allow more aircraft into a given amount of airspace. Such precision allows major airline hubs and air routes to function more efficiently without sacrificing safety. However, technologies like GPS must be widely distributed to realize these gains. Accurate positioning with GPS only works if the satellite constellation provides sufficient accuracy and all airplanes are equipped with GPS receivers. With a single airplane lacking a GPS receiver, it is impossible for air traffic controllers to be sure of the airplane’s position, forcing a reduction in the density of aircraft to reduce the chances of a collision. The use of GPS on airlines has grown dramatically and is now a requirement to operate in designated controlled airspace. 24 According to current FAA modernization plans, GPS will be the linchpin of a broader “NexGen” system of navigation, communications, weather forecasting and redundancy. Rather than relying on brittle, segmented areas of airspace, GPS enables an air transportation system that is more dura ble and less reliant on an increasingly fragile ground control system.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investments are key to avionics leadership and air capabilities</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert A Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11, [“CRISIS IN THE SKY: THE CHALLENGES OF DEVELOPING A UNITED STATES NATIONAL AVIATION POLICY,” Ph. D. Thesis,[[http://mss3.libraries.rutgers.edu/dlr/outputds.php?pid=rutgers-lib:31018&mime=application/pdf&ds=PDF-1]]] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. has been the leader in the development of new aircraft and avionics, and aircraft exports have been an important stimulus for the U.S. economy. As noted by National Research Council (NRC 1997), ―the aeronautics industry, one of the largest positive industrial contributors to the U.S. balance of trade, plays a vital role in maintaining the safety and convenience of air travel throughout the world and provides important contributions to the defense of U.S. interests.‖ At a workshop held by the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board (ASEB) in October, 1996, the steering committee and participants agreed that (NRC 1997, p. 23) ―It is essential for the United States to maintain its superiority in aeronautics products and services by continually improving safety, efficiency, cost, and longterm environmental compatibility. Without leadership, effective strategic planning and subsequent R&D implementation, aeronautics technology and jobs could quickly move to other nations, adversely affecting employment opportunities, trade balances, national security, and the efficiency of our transportation system.‖ A steering committee formed under the auspices of the ASEB developed four dimensions of U.S leadership (NRC 1997, p, 11): • U.S. economic competitiveness—the relative U.S. share of internationally traded products and services in the world economy. • Worldwide demand for aeronautics products and services—the level of demand for aeronautics products and services related to civil, military, and access to space applications in local, regional, and global markets. • Threats to global security and/or quality of life—direct threats to the health and safety of people, and/or the stability and viability of governments, and their implications for the United States. • Global trend in government participation in society—the tendency of governments to regulate and/or intervene in key aspects of society and the economy. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nextgen is key to spur development of aerospace technology - counters sequestration</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIA 12 - [The Aerospace Industries Association is the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the United States’, [[http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=we372]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Short of a legislative remedy, sequestration will impose a $600 billion cut to defense on top of the $487 billion in reductions that the department is planning over the next 10 years, warns AIA. Far-ranging Impact Sequestration will also target the non-defense discretionary budget, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Both have suffered from a lack of long-term financial commitment for important programs. Enactment of a long-term FAA funding bill offers a glimmer of hope for progress on the Next Generation Air Transportation System, but if sequestration kicks in, NextGen will be delayed. We might as well relinquish the keys to US aviation leadership, says AIA. Sequestration would also cut into an already lean NASA budget, stalling efforts to develop space exploration programs in the wake of the retirement of the shuttle program, the association adds. Analyzing Economic Impact on the Sector – and the US Concerned about the impact of sequestration on the industry, AIA commissioned an analysis by Dr. Stephen Fuller, a noted economist with George Mason University who, with Economic Modeling Specialists Inc., concluded that more than one million jobs would be lost as a result of defense budget cuts if the US Congress fails to agree on deficit reduction to replace the scheduled cuts before next January. The one-million figure includes 352,000 aerospace and defense and supply chain job losses. Total loss of wages and salaries would exceed $59 billion. Further, .6 percent would be added to the unemployment rate, which recently stood at 8.3 percent. In addition, the cuts would likely chop about $86 billion off of GDP in 2013 alone, driving economic growth down from 2.3 to 1.7 percent. With the magnitude of these budget reductions looming, industry must make decisions now about how to adapt to a drastically changed budget environment, including upping efficiency initiatives and reducing employment and closing facilities. Risk can Cut too Deep One of the primary concerns is the risk to the defense industrial base. The AIA is worried about the danger of cuts going too deep. Valuable and hard-to-replace capability will be lost. Technologists, engineers and visionaries who will lead the development of the new manned bomber and the cyber, unmanned and ISR capabilities that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta called for in the nation’s new defense strategy may no longer be there when they’re needed. This important talent pool isn’t sitting in some lab waiting for the funding spigot to be turned on. As projects are cancelled and the budget is cut, these talented people will move into other industries. Sensing the uncertain future, last September AIA launched the “Second to None" campaign, a nationwide initiative to speak with one voice about the importance of the US aerospace industry. The message about job creation, national security and technological superiority was sent to the media and to Capitol Hill and throughout the Internet – essentially to anyone would hear the warning: Cutting into the bone of the aerospace and defense budget is not the answer to the United State’s financial woes. AIA is not alone in its advocacy. Admiral Michael Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently warned about the cuts that could run too deep. “We will burn the very blanket of protection that we have been charged to provide our fellow citizens,” he cautioned. Panetta added that proposed cuts could result in a “hollowing out of the force.” A chorus of experts has chimed in with concerns about this “doomsday scenario.” If Congress can solve the sequestration issue, prospects for the industry in 2012 are solid. Commercial aircraft sales are projected to increase – volatile fuel prices are spurring airlines to replace less fuel-efficient aircraft with newer models, and there is rapid growth in air travel in Asia and the Middle East. Notes AIA: “While defense sales are projected to decrease, maintaining a strong national defense with the best equipment in the world is part of our national strategy and public expectation. Aging equipment needs to be replaced [as] the world remains a dangerous place.” In space, the market continues on a reasonable plateau, driven by ongoing satellite replenishment and launch services demand. While cuts to NASA’s FY2012 budget will have a negative impact, they were less severe than those advocated by some policymakers. However, all bets are off the table if sequestration takes hold, warns AIA, which believes it is important for everyone to make their voice heard now—and loud and clear—about the unintended consequences of the current budget scenario. “You can be part of the solution,” says the organization, which urges a letter-writing campaign to congressmen, to express concerns and the urgency for action. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And - intervention in Syria is a question of "when" not "if" - political inertia leads to a slippery slope. Minimizing casualties is key </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">McManus 4/10/12 - Doyle McManus, columnist for LA Times, military correspondent, Fulbright Scholar at University of Brussels, writer for Foreign Policy, Time, Sports Illustrated, and the London Daily Express, "U.S. diplomatic clock ticks faster as military intervention becomes inevitable in Syria," [[http://www.oregonlive.com/opinion/index.ssf/2012/04/us_diplomatic_clock_ticks_fast.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The interventionist liberals of the Obama administration were a doleful bunch last week. It was the 20th anniversary of the siege of Sarajevo, when a Bosnian Serb army battered a city full of civilians with artillery while the United States issued ineffective cries of alarm. The comparison with this year's massacres in Syria was painfully apt. Free Syrian Army fighters train in a neighborhood of Damascus, Syria, on April 1. As part of a U.S. deal, the opposition forces have been promised "non-lethal" aid, including night-vision goggles and U.S. intelligence information such as early warnings of Syrian troop movements. Now, as then, the United Nations Security Council has asked both sides to stop shooting, to no great effect. Now, as then, the United States and its allies are rejecting the idea of military intervention as too difficult, too risky, too likely to add to the violence instead of ending it. In Bosnia, it took the United States more than three years and many massacres to decide that diplomatic measures and sanctions weren't enough. But finally, in August 1995, then-President Clinton ordered airstrikes against the Bosnian Serbs; that turned the tide of the war and led to peace negotiations within weeks. But there's one big difference between the situation in Bosnia and that in Syria: This time, the clock is moving faster. Although the Obama administration still hopes to avoid military intervention in Syria and is publicly backing a U.N. effort to broker a cease-fire, it has also stepped deliberately onto a slippery slope that is likely to lead to more intervention. Unlike with Bosnia, where the United States and its allies initially sought to be neutral in a civil war, this time the U.S. has already chosen a side: It has called on Syria's dictator, Bashar Assad, to step down, and it has embraced the opposition Syrian National Council. At a meeting in Istanbul last week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced an escalation of U.S. aid to the opposition. In public, she pointed to a doubling of medical and other humanitarian aid, plus the provision of communication equipment. Less publicly, officials confirmed that the new package also includes "non-lethal" help that will go to the Free Syrian Army, the newly formed opposition armed forces, including night-vision goggles and U.S. intelligence information such as early warnings of Syrian troop movements. And while the United States has decided not to provide weapons to the rebels, it isn't objecting to military funding or arms shipments from Saudi Arabia, Qatar and other Arab states that would like to see Assad fall. In the short term, the administration says it still hopes former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan can arrange a cease-fire, and that Assad will -- improbably -- decide to step down. But I couldn't find anyone in the administration last week who believed that outcome was likely. For one thing, Assad believes he's winning; there's no reason for him to surrender now. The best hope seems to be that the government crackdown will become less lethal. If the pace of the killing slows, that could buy time: time for economic sanctions to undermine the regime, time to cajole Russia to switch sides and help pull the rug out from Assad, but also time for the opposition and its new army to organize themselves into a more effective force. If those measures fail to bring Assad down, the administration appears divided on how quickly to move toward military intervention. The Pentagon is reluctant to get involved in another war, as the Pentagon usually is. Obama's national security adviser, Tom Donilon, has also weighed in against any post-Libya temptation to "militarize" another problem. Clinton's State Department has sounded the most hawkish notes -- in part, perhaps, because it's Clinton who has delivered most of the administration's public declarations that Assad must go. But even the administration's humanitarian hawks don't think the moment for U.S. or NATO military intervention has arrived yet. They'd like the U.N. Security Council to give its blessing first, or -- if Russia and China continue to resist -- at least NATO. They'd like the Syrian opposition to be better organized, with more assurance that military aid wouldn't fall into the hands of radical Islamists. They'd like Turkey to establish safe havens for the opposition along its border with Syria. Eventually, though, the question of military intervention will change from if to when. The United States is already a little bit pregnant -- already committed to helping Assad fall. It's merely looking for the least violent, lowest cost way to get there. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Further development of navigation and GPS systems are key to creating NFZs - allows effective airpower</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The effectiveness of upgrades to the technology employed by NATO aircraft conducting suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD) operations would further influence the ease with which NATO could target Syrian mobile SAMs for destruction. Partly in response to NATO difficulties in targeting mobile SAMs in Kosovo, the U.S. Defense Department has made significant investments over the past decade in programs designed to improve U.S. Air Force and Navy SEAD capabilities. 132 For the Air Force, this includes the R7 upgrade to the HARM Targeting System, which enables three or more aircraft conducting SEAD to obtain precise coordinates on the location of SAM radars after they emit. Once located, the radars can be targeted by coordinate-seeking munitions regardless of whether they have shut down. 133 Introduced in 2007, fielding of the R7 is now reportedly complete. 134 The Air Force has also worked on an improved version of the HARM with a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) highprecision gyroscope added to the missile’s control section, allowing the HARM to target a radar even after it has turned off. 135 As of February 2012, however, it appeared a contract for the HARM control section modification (HCSM) had yet to be awarded to a single contractor for full production. 136 The Navy’s improved version of the HARM, the Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM), is also designed to target radars even after shut down using GPS guidance and a millimeter-wave seeker for enhanced radar detection. 137 After hardware and software failures, however, the AARGM was decertified and only resumed testing in late 2011 where it remained as of February 2012. 138 Thus, neither version of the improved HARM would presumably be fielded in preparation for a NATO air campaign in 2012 or the immediate future. Any improvement over previous attempts to target mobile SAMs would thus have to come from the R7 upgrade to the HARM Targeting System. However, though this upgrade provides U.S. suppression aircraft greater capability to target mobile SAMs, Syrian mobile SAM operators might still be able to engage in the same kind of “shoot and scoot” tactics identified above. This may be possible if three or more platforms were not in a position to geo-locate SAM radar emissions or the SAM batteries were somehow able to relocate before SEAD aircraft were capable of coordinating an attack. In addition to Syria’s land-based air defense systems, counterair attacks would also be directed at some portion of Syria’s aircraft and airfields. Defending safe havens and a humanitarian corridor in the northwest of Syria would mean suppressing more than half of Syria’s airfields (i.e., those located in the north), including major bases at Hama, Shayrat, and Tiyas. At these airfields, it is unlikely NATO would attempt to destroy all of Syria’s combat aircraft located in hardened shelters in the opening phases of an air campaign, unless Syria attempted significant resistance. Rather, the objective would be limited to keeping the Syrian Air Force grounded without necessarily destroying its aircraft. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air superiority in Syria is key to establishing safe zones</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 3pt;">Components of the Air Campaign Any attempt to establish safe havens in northwest Syria defended from the air would first require establishing air superiority, allowing NATO to conduct operations “without prohibitive interference” by Syrian forces. 74 It is unlikely NATO could achieve a greater degree of dominance in the air unless the Syrians were particularly cooperative in 74 allowing their air defense systems to be targeted. 75 In Kosovo, NATO only formally declared air superiority at mid- to high-altitudes after roughly a month of bombing (and never at lower altitudes). 76 Given its relatively sophisticated air defenses, especially its ubiquitous low-altitude mobile air-defense systems, air superiority at mid- to highaltitudes is probably all that could be expected for the duration of similar operations in Syria. Achieving air superiority would involve undertaking offensive counterair missions to destroy, disrupt, or degrade Syrian air capabilities. These missions would include targets such as aircraft and surface-to-air missile (SAM) batteries, as well as airfields, fuel storage facilities, munitions depots, command and control facilities, and other supporting infrastructure. While the U.S. possesses the electronic warfare capabilities necessary to penetrate Syrian air defenses for a discrete purpose and limited amount of time such as that demonstrated by the Israeli Air Force in its September 2007 strike against an alleged Syrian nuclear facility at Deir al-Zour, any sustained campaign would likely require a more robust effort to suppress (i.e., destroy) Syrian air defenses. 77</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Mountain regions are key to eliminate Assad's geopolitical advantage</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dorell 9/7/12 - Oren Dorell, staff writer for USA Today, "Assad may be trying to set up defense in mountain region,"[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/story/2012-09-06/syria-assad-war/57648654/1?csp=34news]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The regime of Bashar Assad appears to be using mass killings and intimidation to carve out a defensible mountainous region on the Mediterranean coast where it can survive and retain influence even if rebels take over the rest of Syria. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad speaks during an interview in Damascus on Aug. 29. Such a result would be "one of the worst outcomes, a formula for a continuing civil war," says James Dobbins, a Rand analyst who served in the State Department under Bill Clinton and George Bush. A civil war in Syria could spark a conflict in neighboring Lebanon or Iraq and allow Iran to continue arms shipments to its terrorist allies in Lebanon and Gaza and leave much of Syria in the hands of competing Sunni militias, including al-Qaeda allies, Dobbins says. Military experts say there appears to be a pattern to the bombardments and mass killings that Syria's military and pro-government militias have carried out in northwest Syria. Attacks in the foothills of the Alawi mountains have eliminated tens of thousands of Sunni Muslim opponents to Assad from an area that is a traditional homeland to his backers, the Alawite Muslims. The mountains to the east and the sea to the west make the area tough to penetrate, says Tony Badran, an analyst with the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. Badran says Assad is preparing to "enforce a prolonged stalemate by fortifying himself inside this enclave where he can't control the (Syrian) interior and the rebels can't penetrate." Sasha Ghosh-Siminoff, who heads the Washington advocacy group the Syrian Emergency Task Force, agrees. "It seems to be the regime wants to continue its sectarian agenda and create some kind of ethnic enclave for the Alawites to live on the coast," he said. Any talk of Assad's backup plan is "speculation at this point," says Edgar Vasquez of the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Massacres this year in Houla, Taldou, Homs and Tremseh started in similar ways, Badran says. First, government troops shelled the Sunni towns from neighboring Alawite villages. Then Alawite militiamen went in, sometimes with government tanks, and killed dozens of men, women and children, sometimes with knives and axes. There have been reports for months of pro-government forces stockpiling weapons and fortifying defensive positions around Latakiah, on the Mediterranean coast, and in the Alawi mountains, says Ken Pollack, a former CIA analyst at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy. Early in the uprising, when democracy activists demonstrated around Latakiah, regime forces quickly shut them down "because they want to make sure they're secure in that part of the country," Pollack says. The number of people forced from their homes has increased dramatically in recent weeks. About 235,000 Syrians have fled the country since the uprising began in March 2011, 100,000 of whom left in August alone, according to the United Nations. Assad's forces have fought to control cities that lie just beyond the Alawi mountains, but they've stopped contesting huge parts of northern and eastern Syria, Pollack says. Alawites have been flooding back to the Alawite region from the Syrian interior, says Lama Fakih, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, based in Beirut. "It's possible they're doing that to carve out an area, and possible they're doing that because they think … they're going to be attacked," Fakih says. Though an outcome that leaves Assad's regime intact would undermine the Obama administration's stated goal of cutting Iran's ties to the region, Pollack says the danger goes beyond Iranian influence. The question is not "whether the Iranians have a tiny ally in the mountains, but whether this has a destabilizing affect on the region, which we're starting to see already in every neighboring country except Israel," he says.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Protracted civil war draws in Turkey, Iraq, and the wider Middle East.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pollack 1/31</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Kenneth M. Pollack, Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy. “The Revolt in Syria Could Easily Spread to Other Middle East Countries” The Daily Beast. 1/31/2012. [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0131_syria_pollack.aspx?p=1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">It’s impossible to know how bad the Middle East is going to get this year. There is mounting evidence to suggest that it could get really bad. Of course, worst cases tend to be mercifully rare, and so we can reasonably hope that the region won’t get as bad as it seems like it might. Then again, this is the Middle East we’re talking about, and in the Middle East, the worst case is unfortunately often the most likely case.One aspect of how bad the Middle East could get this year lies in the confluence of events in Syria and Iraq. A few weeks ago, a well-connected Saudi told me, “We see the Syrian civil war and the [coming] Iraqi civil war as the same, and we will treat them as the same.” He explained his point this way: from Riyadh’s perspective, there are Iranian-backed Shia governments in both Syria and Iraq that are oppressing their Sunni populations—Sunni populations that Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Arab states feel increasingly determined to support. He even reminded me that the Sunni tribes of eastern Syria were the same as those of western Iraq. Tribes like the Jubbur and Shammar span the border. So providing money and weapons to the Sunni tribes of eastern Syria is effectively the same as providing money and weapons to the tribes of western Iraq. Who knows if my interlocutor spoke for the Saudi government. His words seem consistent with Riyadh’s world view and with the approach the Saudis were threatening to take back in 2006, during the darkest days of Iraq's civil war. But as my friend Greg Gause likes to say about understanding the Saudis, the problem is that “those who know don’t talk, and those who talk don’t know.” Still, even if he was wrong, he could still be right. By any measure, Syria has already crossed the threshold of civil war, and the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better (if it gets better). The Assad regime, and the Alawi Shia community that stands behind it, have shown absolutely no willingness to step down or compromise and appear utterly determined to use as much violence as necessary to stay in power. Indeed, most reports indicate that the Alawis fear that if the regime falls, they will be slaughtered by the Sunni majority they have oppressed for more than 50 years. Consequently, they plan to fight as hard as they can and kill as many as they must to retain power. For its part, the opposition Sunni majority has refused to be cowed by the regime’s violence and is gaining in its own ability to wage war against the regime. This is not a recipe for peaceful revolution such as we saw in Tunisia and (mostly) Egypt. It is a recipe for deepening conflict, like Libya or Yemen or worse. Unless the regime finds a way to greatly ratchet up the violence and so crush the opposition quickly—or an external great power decides to intervene in force and so snuff out the conflict altogether—the most likely scenario will be a bloody, protracted war. We should expect that spillover from Syria—which has already affected Turkey, Lebanon and to a lesser extent Israel—will worsen and will also affect Iraq and Jordan. One of the biggest problems with such intercommunal civil wars is that they don’t stay contained within the borders of the state. Spillover from civil wars is an inevitability, although it can range from quite mild to very severe. Unfortunately, Syria has all the hallmarks of being on the worse end of the spectrum: porous borders, ethno-sectarian communities that span them, irredentist claims, and longstanding grievances with neighbors. My Saudi friend’s point about Iraq gets at exactly this problem, and we should expect that spillover from Syria (which has already affected Turkey, Lebanon, and, to a lesser extent, Israel), will worsen and will also affect Iraq and Jordan. Spillover from civil wars typically manifests itself in six pernicious ways: terrorism, refugees, economic dislocation, radicalization of the neighboring populations, secessionism, and intervention by neighboring states. In 2006, Iraq was creating all six of these problems for the other states of the Persian Gulf—conjuring widespread panic that the Middle East was going to hell in the proverbial hand basket—only to see those fears abate when the United States changed its strategy and, with the “surge,” successfully suppressed the violence and the civil war. At their worst, civil wars in one state can cause civil wars in another: civil war in Lebanon led to civil war in Syria in 1976-82, the Rwandan civil war sparked the Congolese civil war of the 1990s, just as civil war in Afghanistan is pushing Pakistan to the brink of civil war today (and might push it over in future). Civil war can also lead to regional war as neighboring states intervene in the country in conflict to protect their own interests and prevent their regional adversaries from gaining an advantage: the Congolese civil war invited intervention by seven of its neighbors, Lebanon led to an Israeli-Syrian overt fight followed by a proxy war, Afghanistan led to a covert war between Russia and Pakistan (backed by the United States) and there are numerous other cases along these lines. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Syria-Turkey war independently escalates globally.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snyder 11 - Michael T. Snyder is an attorney who currently resides in the Seattle, Washington area, Could We Actually See A War Between Syria And Turkey?, Straight Stocks, 6-27, [[http://www.straightstocks.com/current-market-news/could-we-actually-see-a-war-between-syria-and-turkey/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The important thing to keep in mind in all of this is that Turkey is a member of NATO. If anyone attacks Turkey, NATO has a duty to protect them. If Syria attacked Turkey or if it was made to appear that Syria had attacked Turkey, then NATO would have the justification it needs to go to war with Syria. If NATO goes to war with Syria, it is very doubtful that Iran would just sit by and watch it happen. Syria is a very close ally to Iran and the Iranian government would likely consider an attack on their neighbor to be a fundamental threat to their nation. In fact, there are already reports in the international media that Iran has warned Turkey that they better not allow NATO to use their airbases to attack Syria. So if it was NATO taking on Syria and Iran, who else in the Middle East would jump in? Would Russia and China sit by and do nothing while all of this was going on? Could a conflict in the Middle East be the thing that sets off World War III?</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Escalation highly likely – this card answers all their takeouts.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AP 3/27/12 - (“Syrian Uprising: Why It Matters”, p. [[http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/syrian-uprising-matters-16013959#.T3Iq8NVOZAM|http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/syrian-uprising-matters-16013959#.T3Iq8NVOZAM]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The uprising in Syria is swiftly transforming into a civil war that could lay waste to the country, and the fallout from the year-old conflict already is bleeding outside the country's borders. Diplomats such as Kofi Annan are working feverishly to end the bloodshed, not only because 9,000 people have been killed since the revolt began last March. The conflict could enflame already simmering regional tensions, give rise to extremists like al-Qaida and upend some of the most enduring alliances in the Middle East and beyond. — THE NEIGHBORHOOD All-out war in Syria could spark a regional conflagration. Syria is a vital geopolitical linchpin. It borders five other nations, has close ties to Iran and powerful militant groups, and controls water supplies to Iraq, Jordan and parts of Israel. Syria controlled Lebanon for decades and still carries sway there. The Syrian unrest could provoke fighting in Lebanon, which is still haunted by its own civil war. And although Damascus and Israel are officially at war and Israel has occupied Syria's Golan Heights since 1967, the frontier has remained quiet under Assad's rule. — THE ALLEGIANCES Syria is a highly unpredictable country, in part because of its web of allegiances to powerful forces, including Lebanon's Hezbollah and close ally Iran. The collapse of Assad's rule would likely end Iran's cozy ties with Syria and potentially redraw the Mideast's pathways of influence. Instead of the so-called Shiite crescent — from Iran through Iraq and onto Assad's regime, led by Shiite offshoot Alawites — a new corridor of Sunni allies could be forged from Saudi Arabia, through Jordan and into Syria. It would also choke off money and supply channels to Tehran's main anti-Israel faction, Hezbollah in Lebanon, as well as Hamas in Gaza. — THE EXTREMIST FACTOR U.S. intelligence officials have pointed to al-Qaida in Iraq as the likely culprit behind several recent suicide bombings in Syria, raising the possibility its fighters are infiltrating across the border to take advantage of the turmoil. The Sunni Muslim extremists who support al-Qaida will fight to oust Assad, given that his Alawite sect is aligned with Shiism. Al-Qaida's involvement could further fuel sectarian tensions unleashed by the uprising. — LOOMING CIVIL WAR The Syrian conflict has fed into the country's sectarian tensions. The regime is dominated by the Alawite minority, an offshoot of Shiite Islam to which Assad belongs. Assad, and his father who ruled the country before him, reserved the top echelons of the military and political leadership for Alawites, which bred smoldering resentments. But Sunnis make up the majority of Syria's 22 million people, as well as the backbone of the opposition. Even as much of the opposition insists the movement is entirely secular, reports from the ground suggest religious tensions are boiling over.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Strategic interventions now prevent ground wars and further escalation. Strengthens the effectiveness of airpower</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haddick 8/10/12 - Robert Haddick, managing editor of Small Wars Journal at Foreign Policy Magazine, "The Next Proxy War," Foreign Policy, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/08/10/advice_to_the_us_on_syria]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">A key step in formulating effective strategy is confining oneself to realistic and obtainable goals. Significantly shortening Syria's war, determining which factions come out on top, and seizing control of Syria's most threatening weapons in the midst of chaotic combat are goals very likely beyond the grasp of U.S. policymakers, at least at reasonable cost. The senators' rationale for U.S. intervention implies an ability to influence events in Syria beyond what seems feasible. Should U.S. intervention fail to rapidly end the war or quickly seize Syria's chemical weapons, the United States would risk finding itself climbing a ladder of escalation, with increasing use of air power and even ground troops in an effort to achieve the campaign's goals. Once committed in a large and visible way, U.S. prestige would be at risk, forcing policymakers to continue adding resources in the hope of achieving overly ambitious objectives. However, that does not mean that the United States should avoid the conflict. In fact, there are important and achievable objectives in Syria, obtainable with little risk and for a modest price. Rather than attempting to influence the course of Syria's civil war, something largely beyond Washington's control, U.S. policymakers should instead focus on strengthening America's diplomatic position and on building irregular warfare capabilities that will be crucial in future conflicts in the region. Modest and carefully circumscribed intervention in Syria, in coordination with America's Sunni allies who are already players in the war, will bolster critical relationships and irregular warfare capabilities the United States and its allies will need for the future. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Partnerships and irregular warfare are key to airpower diplomacy - makes airpower more effective and palatable</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lowther 11/22/11 — (Adam Lowther, USAF Air University, "Why U.S. Needs Airpower Diplomacy," The Diplomat,[[http://thediplomat.com/2011/11/22/why-u-s-needs-airpower-diplomacy/2/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Airpower diplomacy, also known as building partnerships by the U.S. Air Force, offers some distinct advantages over any alternatives. Best thought of as the non-kinetic application of air, space, and cyber power, airpower diplomacy is a form of soft power that’s useful in strengthening existing relationships and developing new ones—while protecting American interests. The U.S. Air Force has successfully employed airpower diplomacy in one iteration or another for more than six decades. Its strengths are in three distinct areas. First, airpower, broadly speaking, is able to overcome the distances that make the Asia-Pacific such a challenging region. As the single largest feature on the earth’s surface, the Pacific Ocean makes it difficult for the United States to respond quickly with men and material to unexpected events in the region. With airpower, there’s no place on earth that the United States can’t reach in less than 24 hours. However, aircraft must land, which is why building partnerships—of mutual interests—with countries in the region is a critical component of airpower diplomacy. For many nations in the Asia-Pacific, walking a careful line between China and the United States is the unenviable position in which they find themselves. As the most advanced air, space, and cyber force in the world, the U.S. Air Force is a desirable partner for many countries. This provides a natural advantage for the United States. However, ensuring that the U.S. doesn’t overplay its hand is important if airpower diplomacy is to succeed. Second, airpower diplomacy is a cost-effective alternative to the use of force. Since it’s a concept that focuses on the application of soft power, airpower diplomacy is far more than just American aircraft sitting on the ramps of foreign airfields. It builds partnerships through economic ties, training and support of local forces, humanitarian relief, joint operations, and much more. For example, Fifth Air Force, based at Yokota Air Force Base in Japan, has provided assistance to victims of floods, typhoons, volcanoes, and earthquakes on numerous occasions in recent years. The Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami (2004), Burma cyclone (2008), Indonesian earthquake (2009), and the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami (2011) are some examples of where airpower diplomacy played a leading role in the United States’ response to natural disasters. In the case of the Indian Ocean and Tohoku earthquakes and tsunamis, a strong American response led to improved relations between the United States and Indonesia in the first case and the United States and Japan in the second. This was airpower diplomacy at work. An often overlooked example of airpower diplomacy is the U.S. Air Force’s Inter-American Air Forces Academy (IAAFA) at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. There, students from across Latin America attend courses ranging from aircraft maintenance to professional leadership. The school’s broader objective is to build a community of airmen with the skills to lead capable air forces in their home countries—making cooperation with the United States more likely. In these and many other instances, airpower diplomacy acts as a cost-effective way for the United States to build partnerships with nations that share common interests. And, by strengthening relationships, the United States is less likely to find itself in a costly conflict with what could have been a partner. Third, airpower and airpower diplomacy don’t require permanent large footprint bases that are both expensive for the United States and a political irritant for many governments in the region. With the U.S. pivoting toward the Asia-Pacific, a growth in the number of American main-operating bases in the region would be expected. Airpower diplomacy, however, focuses on the use of joint operations, short-term deployments, and other temporary measures, enabling the United States to maintain a regional presence—demonstrating commitment—while eliminating concerns of an American occupation. Flexible operations and arrangements also have the added benefit of proving to be less of a stressor in the host nation’s relationship with China, which is becoming increasingly important for every nation in the region. The United States’ attempt to conduct what Secretary of State Clinton calls “forward deployed diplomacy,” a strategy in which American airmen operate with their host nation counterparts at bases owned and operated by the host nation, may prove a far superior option to one resembling Cold War NATO where up to several hundred thousand Americans were stationed in Western Europe. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Key to deter global war</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tellis 98 - [Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]], accessed on 7/19/12]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will of necessity be the primary instruments constituting the American response. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea. In each of these cases, U.S. responses may vary from simply being a concerned onlooker to prosecuting the whole range of military operations to providing post-conflict assistance in a permissive environment. Depending on the political choices made, Air Force contributions would obviously vary. If the first response is selected, contributions would consist predominantly of vital, specialized, airbreathing platforms such as AWACS, JSTARS, and Rivet Joint—in tandem with controlled space assets—that would be necessary for assessment of political crises erupting in the region. The second response, in contrast, would burden the entire range of U.S. Air Force capabilities, in the manner witnessed in Operation Desert Storm. The third response, like the first, would call for specialized capabilities, mostly in the areas of strategic lift and airborne tanker support. The third key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that despite increasing regional air capabilities, U.S. Air Force assets will be required to fill gaps in critical warfighting areas. The capabilities of the Asian states, including those of U.S. allies and neutral states, have been steadily increasing in the last two decades. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Criticisms of intervention ignore structural violence and the conditions on the ground - escalates. Safe zones are key</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">With the prospect of civil war looming, the regime’s counterinsurgency campaign has transformed cities and towns across the country into “dangerous environments” for civilians stuck in the crossfire. 24 Civilians who remain in their homes are subjected to indiscriminate firepower by al-Assad’s security forces ostensibly used to root out insurgents. 25 Civilians are also targeted directly, subjected to brutal forms of intimidation, torture, and execution in attempts to frighten the insurgency’s supporters into fleeing armed centers of resistance. 26 As of early July 2012, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition watchdog group based in the UK, estimates more than 11,486 civilians have been killed in Syria since the government’s crackdown began, with nearly 17,000 killed overall. 27 Though data on the distribution of deaths is not wholly reliable, one organization the U.N. has consulted in constructing its estimates suggests that the cities and towns suffering the greatest number of dead include Homs, Hama, Houla, alQusayr, and Rastan in the central-western part of the country; Idlib and Jisr al-Shughour in the northwest; Deir al-Zour in the east; Dara’a in the south; the capital, Damascus, and nearby Douma (for a map of Syria, see Figure 1). 28 Residents under siege have faced cuts to water, electricity, and phone lines and shortages of essentials such as food, medicine, baby formula, and gasoline. 29 In May 2012, the Red Crescent estimated that as many as 1.5 million people in Syria needed assistance obtaining food, water, or shelter. 30 Others have fled their homes, becoming internally displaced persons (IDPs) or refugees in camps outside Syria. As of late June 2012, the United Nations had registered more than 90,000 refugees who had fled Syria to the neighboring countries of Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq. 31 In the process, those fleeing have encountered newly-placed land mines along the Turkish and Lebanese borders. 32 The International Displacement Monitoring Centre, a non-governmental organization based in Geneva, estimates at least 156,000 were newly displaced in 2011, while UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has expressed fears that as many as one million are currently displaced inside Syria. 33 Countless others have been injured, imprisoned, tortured and forcibly disappeared. Heavy-handed government repression, brutal counterinsurgency tactics, and sectarian killings by pro-government militias have thus resulted in a widespread humanitarian crisis across Syria. In the next section, I draw on NATO’s responses to past humanitarian crises to frame a notional intervention broadly conceived as the establishment of safe havens defended from the air.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And - solvency.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is poised to face rising demand with limited additional capacity and outdated technology. This could put considerable stress on the system in terms of con- gestion and efficiency. The Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) represents a series of incre- mental policies, procedures, and technological changes to modernize the air traffic control (ATC) system into a more efficient, state-of-the-art satellite-based system. On the technology side, NextGen is composed of two main components: aircraft based equipment that re- cords and transmits the exact location of the aircraft using Global Positioning System (GPS), and ground based infrastructure that can receive and analyze the GPS data. Infrastructural improvements also entail devising more direct and fuel-efficient routes, and upgrading the computer and backup system used at 20 Federal Avia- tion Administration (FAA) air traffic control centers nationwide. The infrastructure implementation is currently in the hands of the FAA and funded by the Airport and Airway Trust Fund (AATF), while aircraft equipage is expected to be paid for by the operators. On-board equipage could allow improved decision-making capabilities and accessibility during adverse weather, as well as better data communications between cockpit and ATC. This more precise system has the potential to reduce the minimum aircraft separation standard and allow more direct flight patterns, thus decreasing fuel consumption, carbon emissions, and congestion. On the policy-side, there are several obstacles to NextGen that hinder progress and the likelihood of a timely and cost- efficient implementation. First of all, there are uncertainties regarding the extent of the benefits NextGen can potentially provide. It is difficult to make forecasts about how much congestion or fuel consumption can be reduced to make the infrastructure investment worthwhile. This makes it chal- lenging to create sustained political, financial, and industry support for the project Secondly, there are doubts about costs and the FAA’s ability to deliver technology solutions of this magnitude. In the early 1980s, aviation modernization projects were pro- jected to cost $12 billion and be ready in 10 years. NextGen infrastructure and equipage is now estimated to cost about $40 billion with expected completion by 2025.1 Testimony by the US Department of Transportation Inspector Gen- eral and a recent report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) have pointed out cost overruns and delays in several NextGen programs. This continued uncertainty regarding the total infrastructure and equipage cost figure of NextGen has planted seeds of doubt amongst stakeholders and potential NextGen beneficiaries. Third, the airlines and general aviation users have been hesi- tant to bear equipage costs due to low profitability, econom- ic turmoil, and a lack of clear incentives to justify investing in NextGen. Operators are unlikely to invest until, at a minimum, the FAA is ready to deliver the promised benefits. This leads to a stalemate: operators are uncertain whether investing in NextGen is worthwhile, when the infrastructure is not yet fully in place, and without equipage the infrastruc- ture by itself is ineffective. The FAA has mandated equi- page of Automated Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast Out (ADS-B) that allows the equipped aircraft to send transmis- sion to other equipped aircraft ADS-B ground stations for all operators by 2020. However, there is uncertainty over when other NextGen on-board equipment will be required, particularly ADS-B In which allows the equipped aircraft to receive transmission from other ADS-B ground stations and other aircraft Fourth, NextGen faces funding issues that pose some very difficult policy decisions. Work on the ground infrastruc- ture aspect of NextGen is currently funded by the Facilities and Equipment account of the AATF and some progress, albeit slow, has been made on this project. However, recent reports by the Congressional Budget Office and the Gov- ernment Accountability Office show that current AATF revenues are inadequate to fund NextGen.2 Despite recent resolution over the long overdue FAA reauthorization bill, little progress has been regarding securing a full-fledged modernization funding plan. The current bill authorizes a flat amount of $2.731 billion over four years for Next- Gen and funding is still subject to annual appropriation. A project that is already endangered by uncertainties regarding its worth would benefit from a stable and adequate funding source. A fifth problem facing NextGen is lack of Congressional political leadership in prioritizing a project of such potential value. In July 2011 the House of Representatives passed a short-term extension bill that failed to pass the senate, resulting in a shutdown that lasted a fortnight. The AATF received no tax revenues during the shutdown. As Con- gressional leaders argued over the Essential Air Services program, the trust fund lost over $400 million in foregone tax revenues. Those are funds that could have potentially been used towards an investment like NextGen. Further- more, according to the FAA some of the NextGen program delays can be attributed to the furlough of some of the FAA employees in July 2011 and a freeze on contractor funding which resulted in work stoppage orders for several projects.3 This impact of the impasse on NextGen was also docu- mented on the GAO report on the FAA’s NextGen cost- management.4 In order for NextGen to succeed, there must be greater certainty about potential benefits and costs. In the highly competitive low profit-margin airline industry, few want to take on the burden of paying for something that spreads speculative benefits so widely. It will also be essential to have a mechanism that raises sufficient capital for NextGen infrastructure in a transparent and equitable manner, while imposing minimal burdens on those who pay for it. Without a sustainable, stable, and reliable strategy for both continued infrastructural improvements and incentives for equipage, there is no guarantee that NextGen can be implemented in a timely and cost-effective manner. Without strong politi- cal leadership, a clear and unbiased delineation of costs and benefits, a transparent source of funds, and incentives for operators to equip, it is unlikely that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees,[[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To maintain a competitive advantage in the international marketplace, the United States’ national airspace system (NAS)—which is composed of the entire air- and ground-based infrastructure, including air traffic control surveillance and communication, navigation, airports, aircraft, vehicles on the surface, and others—must be modernized. The current system of air traffic control and air traffic management is based on technologies, techniques, and processes that date back decades. The infrastructure continues to deteriorate, and the ability of the FAA and operators in the NAS to guarantee the safest possible travel is similarly being diminished. Existing and emerging technologies hold the promise of significant increases in the ability to maintain or improve levels of safety while improving capacity and efficiency of our system, allowing our airlines to grow and ultimately save costs, resulting in a better business environment and more level playing field for U.S. airlines. NextGen, in its mature state, will improve efficiency of operations, enhance both the accuracy and coverage of controllers’ ability to pinpoint the position of aircraft in flight and on the ground, increase capacity, reduce delays in the air and on the ground, and cut down greenhouse gas emissions. With the rising cost of fuel, less fuel will be consumed, resulting in immediate cost savings. Reduced taxi and flight time also translates into less noise and emissions. Better knowledge of exactly where the aircraft is on the ground translates into more efficient gate management, reduced tarmac delays, and fewer runway incursions. More accurate airborne position knowledge will allow the air traffic controller to arrange aircraft into more efficient streams. All of these benefits lead to profitability and growth of our airlines and our nation’s economy, as well as a better customer experience The upgrade from the current outdated system to a modern, more efficient one is as complex as the technologies themselves. It is simply impossible to “turn off” the current system while changes are made. Every major upgrade to the system must be undertaken while the system is in full operation, with the existing workforce. Thus, development of equipment and procedures, acquisition and deployment strategies, and training for pilots, controllers, and technicians must all be fully integrated Policy Recommendation: The U.S. government can help level the playing field for U.S. airlines and their employees by investing in NextGen to promote greater safety and efficiency. The administration and Congress must work to accelerate the FAA’s NextGen plan. The scope, duration, and cost of NextGen require that decisions on critical aspects, such as funding and equipage, must be timely, accurate, and focused on the overall needs of the public. Strong government leadership, consistent long-term funding, and cooperative planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>

==Ohio Valley== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Confidence in aviation is key to US use of the air – NextGen mitigates inevitable disruptions. Forces tech growth and adaptation</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force and Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, 10 — Oliver Fritz is the Assistant Director of Strategic Planning at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force and Kelly Martin (USAF) is a Senior Military Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, 1-10, [“SUStAininG tHE AiR COMMOnS,” Contested Commons: The Future of American Power in a Multipolar World, Center for a New American Security,[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=111841]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Contesting the Air Commons Over time, the air commons became dependent on a complex system of norms, infrastructure, technology, and technical standards to meet the demands of a growing traveling public. This complexity, and the steps nations have taken to master it, is producing trends that could eventually disrupt the air commons. During peacetime, the density of the system that supports the air commons provides abundant opportunities for intentional or accidental disruption. Similarly, the enduring ability of the United States to master the air during wartime drives adversaries to develop responses that threaten to undermine traditional advantages enjoyed by U.S. forces. PeACeTIMe CHAlleNGes AND THReATs The flying public’s high level of confidence in civil aviation’s safety is a prerequisite for the effective use of the open air commons. During peacetime, challenges to the air commons come from intentional acts and mistakes that undermine the perceived safety and efficiency of air travel. Indeed, given the unique role of the air commons in moving people, the perception of flight safety often outweighs reality and a high level of confidence is essential for the effective openness of the air commons. However, there is increasing evidence that air traffic control systems are at risk of technical or intentional degradation. Beyond the air traffic control system that binds thousands of daily flights, terrorist attacks in the air or on the ground are likely to continue, and potentially increase in lethality. These shortfalls may decrease the reliability and safety of air travel, distorting how the air commons is used. Brittle Air Traffic Control Systems The U.S. air traffic control system (ATC) is burdened with a navigation system that dates to the 1950s and an airspace management system from the 1980s, with its many single points of failure and interconnected vulnerabilities. The demand for the air commons is outstripping the American civil aviation infrastructure’s ability to safely and efficiently manage movement within it. 21 Problems associated with burned-out circuit boards, software upgrades, power outage’s, or even a car hitting a single utility pole, reveal a lack of resilience or redundancy. 22 Forecasts indicate that domestic and international air traffic will exceed the limit of current ATC systems. 23 Technological advances, such as the advent of radar and the integration of the Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) system, allow for increased capacity for commercial air travel. An accurate understanding of an airplane’s location — with three-dimensional positioning — empowers air traffic controllers to allow more aircraft into a given amount of airspace. Such precision allows major airline hubs and air routes to function more efficiently without sacrificing safety. However, technologies like GPS must be widely distributed to realize these gains. Accurate positioning with GPS only works if the satellite constellation provides sufficient accuracy and all airplanes are equipped with GPS receivers. With a single airplane lacking a GPS receiver, it is impossible for air traffic controllers to be sure of the airplane’s position, forcing a reduction in the density of aircraft to reduce the chances of a collision. The use of GPS on airlines has grown dramatically and is now a requirement to operate in designated controlled airspace. 24 According to current FAA modernization plans, GPS will be the linchpin of a broader “NexGen” system of navigation, communications, weather forecasting and redundancy. Rather than relying on brittle, segmented areas of airspace, GPS enables an air transportation system that is more dura ble and less reliant on an increasingly fragile ground control system.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investments are key to avionics leadership and air capabilities</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert A Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11, [“CRISIS IN THE SKY: THE CHALLENGES OF DEVELOPING A UNITED STATES NATIONAL AVIATION POLICY,” Ph. D. Thesis,[[http://mss3.libraries.rutgers.edu/dlr/outputds.php?pid=rutgers-lib:31018&mime=application/pdf&ds=PDF-1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. has been the leader in the development of new aircraft and avionics, and aircraft exports have been an important stimulus for the U.S. economy. As noted by National Research Council (NRC 1997), ―the aeronautics industry, one of the largest positive industrial contributors to the U.S. balance of trade, plays a vital role in maintaining the safety and convenience of air travel throughout the world and provides important contributions to the defense of U.S. interests.‖ At a workshop held by the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board (ASEB) in October, 1996, the steering committee and participants agreed that (NRC 1997, p. 23) ―It is essential for the United States to maintain its superiority in aeronautics products and services by continually improving safety, efficiency, cost, and longterm environmental compatibility. Without leadership, effective strategic planning and subsequent R&D implementation, aeronautics technology and jobs could quickly move to other nations, adversely affecting employment opportunities, trade balances, national security, and the efficiency of our transportation system.‖ A steering committee formed under the auspices of the ASEB developed four dimensions of U.S leadership (NRC 1997, p, 11): • U.S. economic competitiveness—the relative U.S. share of internationally traded products and services in the world economy. • Worldwide demand for aeronautics products and services—the level of demand for aeronautics products and services related to civil, military, and access to space applications in local, regional, and global markets. • Threats to global security and/or quality of life—direct threats to the health and safety of people, and/or the stability and viability of governments, and their implications for the United States. • Global trend in government participation in society—the tendency of governments to regulate and/or intervene in key aspects of society and the economy.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nextgen is key to spur development of aerospace technology - counters sequestration</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AIA 12 - [The Aerospace Industries Association is the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the United States’, [[http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=we372]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Short of a legislative remedy, sequestration will impose a $600 billion cut to defense on top of the $487 billion in reductions that the department is planning over the next 10 years, warns AIA. Far-ranging Impact Sequestration will also target the non-defense discretionary budget, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Both have suffered from a lack of long-term financial commitment for important programs. Enactment of a long-term FAA funding bill offers a glimmer of hope for progress on the Next Generation Air Transportation System, but if sequestration kicks in, NextGen will be delayed. We might as well relinquish the keys to US aviation leadership, says AIA. Sequestration would also cut into an already lean NASA budget, stalling efforts to develop space exploration programs in the wake of the retirement of the shuttle program, the association adds. Analyzing Economic Impact on the Sector – and the US Concerned about the impact of sequestration on the industry, AIA commissioned an analysis by Dr. Stephen Fuller, a noted economist with George Mason University who, with Economic Modeling Specialists Inc., concluded that more than one million jobs would be lost as a result of defense budget cuts if the US Congress fails to agree on deficit reduction to replace the scheduled cuts before next January. The one-million figure includes 352,000 aerospace and defense and supply chain job losses. Total loss of wages and salaries would exceed $59 billion. Further, .6 percent would be added to the unemployment rate, which recently stood at 8.3 percent. In addition, the cuts would likely chop about $86 billion off of GDP in 2013 alone, driving economic growth down from 2.3 to 1.7 percent. With the magnitude of these budget reductions looming, industry must make decisions now about how to adapt to a drastically changed budget environment, including upping efficiency initiatives and reducing employment and closing facilities. Risk can Cut too Deep One of the primary concerns is the risk to the defense industrial base. The AIA is worried about the danger of cuts going too deep. Valuable and hard-to-replace capability will be lost. Technologists, engineers and visionaries who will lead the development of the new manned bomber and the cyber, unmanned and ISR capabilities that Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta called for in the nation’s new defense strategy may no longer be there when they’re needed. This important talent pool isn’t sitting in some lab waiting for the funding spigot to be turned on. As projects are cancelled and the budget is cut, these talented people will move into other industries. Sensing the uncertain future, last September AIA launched the “Second to None" campaign, a nationwide initiative to speak with one voice about the importance of the US aerospace industry. The message about job creation, national security and technological superiority was sent to the media and to Capitol Hill and throughout the Internet – essentially to anyone would hear the warning: Cutting into the bone of the aerospace and defense budget is not the answer to the United State’s financial woes. AIA is not alone in its advocacy. Admiral Michael Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently warned about the cuts that could run too deep. “We will burn the very blanket of protection that we have been charged to provide our fellow citizens,” he cautioned. Panetta added that proposed cuts could result in a “hollowing out of the force.” A chorus of experts has chimed in with concerns about this “doomsday scenario.” If Congress can solve the sequestration issue, prospects for the industry in 2012 are solid. Commercial aircraft sales are projected to increase – volatile fuel prices are spurring airlines to replace less fuel-efficient aircraft with newer models, and there is rapid growth in air travel in Asia and the Middle East. Notes AIA: “While defense sales are projected to decrease, maintaining a strong national defense with the best equipment in the world is part of our national strategy and public expectation. Aging equipment needs to be replaced [as] the world remains a dangerous place.” In space, the market continues on a reasonable plateau, driven by ongoing satellite replenishment and launch services demand. While cuts to NASA’s FY2012 budget will have a negative impact, they were less severe than those advocated by some policymakers. However, all bets are off the table if sequestration takes hold, warns AIA, which believes it is important for everyone to make their voice heard now—and loud and clear—about the unintended consequences of the current budget scenario. “You can be part of the solution,” says the organization, which urges a letter-writing campaign to congressmen, to express concerns and the urgency for action.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">And - intervention in Syria is a question of "when" not "if" - political inertia leads to a slippery slope. Minimizing casualties is key</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">McManus 4/10/12 - Doyle McManus, columnist for LA Times, military correspondent, Fulbright Scholar at University of Brussels, writer for Foreign Policy, Time, Sports Illustrated, and the London Daily Express, "U.S. diplomatic clock ticks faster as military intervention becomes inevitable in Syria," [[http://www.oregonlive.com/opinion/index.ssf/2012/04/us_diplomatic_clock_ticks_fast.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The interventionist liberals of the Obama administration were a doleful bunch last week. It was the 20th anniversary of the siege of Sarajevo, when a Bosnian Serb army battered a city full of civilians with artillery while the United States issued ineffective cries of alarm. The comparison with this year's massacres in Syria was painfully apt. Free Syrian Army fighters train in a neighborhood of Damascus, Syria, on April 1. As part of a U.S. deal, the opposition forces have been promised "non-lethal" aid, including night-vision goggles and U.S. intelligence information such as early warnings of Syrian troop movements. Now, as then, the United Nations Security Council has asked both sides to stop shooting, to no great effect. Now, as then, the United States and its allies are rejecting the idea of military intervention as too difficult, too risky, too likely to add to the violence instead of ending it. In Bosnia, it took the United States more than three years and many massacres to decide that diplomatic measures and sanctions weren't enough. But finally, in August 1995, then-President Clinton ordered airstrikes against the Bosnian Serbs; that turned the tide of the war and led to peace negotiations within weeks. But there's one big difference between the situation in Bosnia and that in Syria: This time, the clock is moving faster. Although the Obama administration still hopes to avoid military intervention in Syria and is publicly backing a U.N. effort to broker a cease-fire, it has also stepped deliberately onto a slippery slope that is likely to lead to more intervention. Unlike with Bosnia, where the United States and its allies initially sought to be neutral in a civil war, this time the U.S. has already chosen a side: It has called on Syria's dictator, Bashar Assad, to step down, and it has embraced the opposition Syrian National Council. At a meeting in Istanbul last week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced an escalation of U.S. aid to the opposition. In public, she pointed to a doubling of medical and other humanitarian aid, plus the provision of communication equipment. Less publicly, officials confirmed that the new package also includes "non-lethal" help that will go to the Free Syrian Army, the newly formed opposition armed forces, including night-vision goggles and U.S. intelligence information such as early warnings of Syrian troop movements. And while the United States has decided not to provide weapons to the rebels, it isn't objecting to military funding or arms shipments from Saudi Arabia, Qatar and other Arab states that would like to see Assad fall. In the short term, the administration says it still hopes former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan can arrange a cease-fire, and that Assad will -- improbably -- decide to step down. But I couldn't find anyone in the administration last week who believed that outcome was likely. For one thing, Assad believes he's winning; there's no reason for him to surrender now. The best hope seems to be that the government crackdown will become less lethal. If the pace of the killing slows, that could buy time: time for economic sanctions to undermine the regime, time to cajole Russia to switch sides and help pull the rug out from Assad, but also time for the opposition and its new army to organize themselves into a more effective force. If those measures fail to bring Assad down, the administration appears divided on how quickly to move toward military intervention. The Pentagon is reluctant to get involved in another war, as the Pentagon usually is. Obama's national security adviser, Tom Donilon, has also weighed in against any post-Libya temptation to "militarize" another problem. Clinton's State Department has sounded the most hawkish notes -- in part, perhaps, because it's Clinton who has delivered most of the administration's public declarations that Assad must go. But even the administration's humanitarian hawks don't think the moment for U.S. or NATO military intervention has arrived yet. They'd like the U.N. Security Council to give its blessing first, or -- if Russia and China continue to resist -- at least NATO. They'd like the Syrian opposition to be better organized, with more assurance that military aid wouldn't fall into the hands of radical Islamists. They'd like Turkey to establish safe havens for the opposition along its border with Syria. Eventually, though, the question of military intervention will change from if to when. The United States is already a little bit pregnant -- already committed to helping Assad fall. It's merely looking for the least violent, lowest cost way to get there.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Further development of navigation and GPS systems are key to creating NFZs - allows effective airpower</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The effectiveness of upgrades to the technology employed by NATO aircraft conducting suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD) operations would further influence the ease with which NATO could target Syrian mobile SAMs for destruction. Partly in response to NATO difficulties in targeting mobile SAMs in Kosovo, the U.S. Defense Department has made significant investments over the past decade in programs designed to improve U.S. Air Force and Navy SEAD capabilities. 132 For the Air Force, this includes the R7 upgrade to the HARM Targeting System, which enables three or more aircraft conducting SEAD to obtain precise coordinates on the location of SAM radars after they emit. Once located, the radars can be targeted by coordinate-seeking munitions regardless of whether they have shut down. 133 Introduced in 2007, fielding of the R7 is now reportedly complete. 134 The Air Force has also worked on an improved version of the HARM with a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) highprecision gyroscope added to the missile’s control section, allowing the HARM to target a radar even after it has turned off. 135 As of February 2012, however, it appeared a contract for the HARM control section modification (HCSM) had yet to be awarded to a single contractor for full production. 136 The Navy’s improved version of the HARM, the Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile (AARGM), is also designed to target radars even after shut down using GPS guidance and a millimeter-wave seeker for enhanced radar detection. 137 After hardware and software failures, however, the AARGM was decertified and only resumed testing in late 2011 where it remained as of February 2012. 138 Thus, neither version of the improved HARM would presumably be fielded in preparation for a NATO air campaign in 2012 or the immediate future. Any improvement over previous attempts to target mobile SAMs would thus have to come from the R7 upgrade to the HARM Targeting System. However, though this upgrade provides U.S. suppression aircraft greater capability to target mobile SAMs, Syrian mobile SAM operators might still be able to engage in the same kind of “shoot and scoot” tactics identified above. This may be possible if three or more platforms were not in a position to geo-locate SAM radar emissions or the SAM batteries were somehow able to relocate before SEAD aircraft were capable of coordinating an attack. In addition to Syria’s land-based air defense systems, counterair attacks would also be directed at some portion of Syria’s aircraft and airfields. Defending safe havens and a humanitarian corridor in the northwest of Syria would mean suppressing more than half of Syria’s airfields (i.e., those located in the north), including major bases at Hama, Shayrat, and Tiyas. At these airfields, it is unlikely NATO would attempt to destroy all of Syria’s combat aircraft located in hardened shelters in the opening phases of an air campaign, unless Syria attempted significant resistance. Rather, the objective would be limited to keeping the Syrian Air Force grounded without necessarily destroying its aircraft.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air superiority in Syria is key to establishing safe zones</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 3pt;">Components of the Air Campaign Any attempt to establish safe havens in northwest Syria defended from the air would first require establishing air superiority, allowing NATO to conduct operations “without prohibitive interference” by Syrian forces. 74 It is unlikely NATO could achieve a greater degree of dominance in the air unless the Syrians were particularly cooperative in 74 allowing their air defense systems to be targeted. 75 In Kosovo, NATO only formally declared air superiority at mid- to high-altitudes after roughly a month of bombing (and never at lower altitudes). 76 Given its relatively sophisticated air defenses, especially its ubiquitous low-altitude mobile air-defense systems, air superiority at mid- to highaltitudes is probably all that could be expected for the duration of similar operations in Syria. Achieving air superiority would involve undertaking offensive counterair missions to destroy, disrupt, or degrade Syrian air capabilities. These missions would include targets such as aircraft and surface-to-air missile (SAM) batteries, as well as airfields, fuel storage facilities, munitions depots, command and control facilities, and other supporting infrastructure. While the U.S. possesses the electronic warfare capabilities necessary to penetrate Syrian air defenses for a discrete purpose and limited amount of time such as that demonstrated by the Israeli Air Force in its September 2007 strike against an alleged Syrian nuclear facility at Deir al-Zour, any sustained campaign would likely require a more robust effort to suppress (i.e., destroy) Syrian air defenses. 77</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Mountain regions are key to eliminate Assad's geopolitical advantage</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dorell 9/7/12 - Oren Dorell, staff writer for USA Today, "Assad may be trying to set up defense in mountain region,"[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/story/2012-09-06/syria-assad-war/57648654/1?csp=34news]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The regime of Bashar Assad appears to be using mass killings and intimidation to carve out a defensible mountainous region on the Mediterranean coast where it can survive and retain influence even if rebels take over the rest of Syria. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad speaks during an interview in Damascus on Aug. 29. Such a result would be "one of the worst outcomes, a formula for a continuing civil war," says James Dobbins, a Rand analyst who served in the State Department under Bill Clinton and George Bush. A civil war in Syria could spark a conflict in neighboring Lebanon or Iraq and allow Iran to continue arms shipments to its terrorist allies in Lebanon and Gaza and leave much of Syria in the hands of competing Sunni militias, including al-Qaeda allies, Dobbins says. Military experts say there appears to be a pattern to the bombardments and mass killings that Syria's military and pro-government militias have carried out in northwest Syria. Attacks in the foothills of the Alawi mountains have eliminated tens of thousands of Sunni Muslim opponents to Assad from an area that is a traditional homeland to his backers, the Alawite Muslims. The mountains to the east and the sea to the west make the area tough to penetrate, says Tony Badran, an analyst with the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies. Badran says Assad is preparing to "enforce a prolonged stalemate by fortifying himself inside this enclave where he can't control the (Syrian) interior and the rebels can't penetrate." Sasha Ghosh-Siminoff, who heads the Washington advocacy group the Syrian Emergency Task Force, agrees. "It seems to be the regime wants to continue its sectarian agenda and create some kind of ethnic enclave for the Alawites to live on the coast," he said. Any talk of Assad's backup plan is "speculation at this point," says Edgar Vasquez of the State Department's Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Massacres this year in Houla, Taldou, Homs and Tremseh started in similar ways, Badran says. First, government troops shelled the Sunni towns from neighboring Alawite villages. Then Alawite militiamen went in, sometimes with government tanks, and killed dozens of men, women and children, sometimes with knives and axes. There have been reports for months of pro-government forces stockpiling weapons and fortifying defensive positions around Latakiah, on the Mediterranean coast, and in the Alawi mountains, says Ken Pollack, a former CIA analyst at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy. Early in the uprising, when democracy activists demonstrated around Latakiah, regime forces quickly shut them down "because they want to make sure they're secure in that part of the country," Pollack says. The number of people forced from their homes has increased dramatically in recent weeks. About 235,000 Syrians have fled the country since the uprising began in March 2011, 100,000 of whom left in August alone, according to the United Nations. Assad's forces have fought to control cities that lie just beyond the Alawi mountains, but they've stopped contesting huge parts of northern and eastern Syria, Pollack says. Alawites have been flooding back to the Alawite region from the Syrian interior, says Lama Fakih, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, based in Beirut. "It's possible they're doing that to carve out an area, and possible they're doing that because they think … they're going to be attacked," Fakih says. Though an outcome that leaves Assad's regime intact would undermine the Obama administration's stated goal of cutting Iran's ties to the region, Pollack says the danger goes beyond Iranian influence. The question is not "whether the Iranians have a tiny ally in the mountains, but whether this has a destabilizing affect on the region, which we're starting to see already in every neighboring country except Israel," he says.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Protracted civil war draws in Turkey, Iraq, and the wider Middle East.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pollack 1/31</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Kenneth M. Pollack, Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy. “The Revolt in Syria Could Easily Spread to Other Middle East Countries” The Daily Beast. 1/31/2012. [[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0131_syria_pollack.aspx?p=1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">It’s impossible to know how bad the Middle East is going to get this year. There is mounting evidence to suggest that it could get really bad. Of course, worst cases tend to be mercifully rare, and so we can reasonably hope that the region won’t get as bad as it seems like it might. Then again, this is the Middle East we’re talking about, and in the Middle East, the worst case is unfortunately often the most likely case.One aspect of how bad the Middle East could get this year lies in the confluence of events in Syria and Iraq. A few weeks ago, a well-connected Saudi told me, “We see the Syrian civil war and the [coming] Iraqi civil war as the same, and we will treat them as the same.” He explained his point this way: from Riyadh’s perspective, there are Iranian-backed Shia governments in both Syria and Iraq that are oppressing their Sunni populations—Sunni populations that Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Arab states feel increasingly determined to support. He even reminded me that the Sunni tribes of eastern Syria were the same as those of western Iraq. Tribes like the Jubbur and Shammar span the border. So providing money and weapons to the Sunni tribes of eastern Syria is effectively the same as providing money and weapons to the tribes of western Iraq. Who knows if my interlocutor spoke for the Saudi government. His words seem consistent with Riyadh’s world view and with the approach the Saudis were threatening to take back in 2006, during the darkest days of Iraq's civil war. But as my friend Greg Gause likes to say about understanding the Saudis, the problem is that “those who know don’t talk, and those who talk don’t know.” Still, even if he was wrong, he could still be right. By any measure, Syria has already crossed the threshold of civil war, and the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better (if it gets better). The Assad regime, and the Alawi Shia community that stands behind it, have shown absolutely no willingness to step down or compromise and appear utterly determined to use as much violence as necessary to stay in power. Indeed, most reports indicate that the Alawis fear that if the regime falls, they will be slaughtered by the Sunni majority they have oppressed for more than 50 years. Consequently, they plan to fight as hard as they can and kill as many as they must to retain power. For its part, the opposition Sunni majority has refused to be cowed by the regime’s violence and is gaining in its own ability to wage war against the regime. This is not a recipe for peaceful revolution such as we saw in Tunisia and (mostly) Egypt. It is a recipe for deepening conflict, like Libya or Yemen or worse. Unless the regime finds a way to greatly ratchet up the violence and so crush the opposition quickly—or an external great power decides to intervene in force and so snuff out the conflict altogether—the most likely scenario will be a bloody, protracted war. We should expect that spillover from Syria—which has already affected Turkey, Lebanon and to a lesser extent Israel—will worsen and will also affect Iraq and Jordan. One of the biggest problems with such intercommunal civil wars is that they don’t stay contained within the borders of the state. Spillover from civil wars is an inevitability, although it can range from quite mild to very severe. Unfortunately, Syria has all the hallmarks of being on the worse end of the spectrum: porous borders, ethno-sectarian communities that span them, irredentist claims, and longstanding grievances with neighbors. My Saudi friend’s point about Iraq gets at exactly this problem, and we should expect that spillover from Syria (which has already affected Turkey, Lebanon, and, to a lesser extent, Israel), will worsen and will also affect Iraq and Jordan. Spillover from civil wars typically manifests itself in six pernicious ways: terrorism, refugees, economic dislocation, radicalization of the neighboring populations, secessionism, and intervention by neighboring states. In 2006, Iraq was creating all six of these problems for the other states of the Persian Gulf—conjuring widespread panic that the Middle East was going to hell in the proverbial hand basket—only to see those fears abate when the United States changed its strategy and, with the “surge,” successfully suppressed the violence and the civil war. At their worst, civil wars in one state can cause civil wars in another: civil war in Lebanon led to civil war in Syria in 1976-82, the Rwandan civil war sparked the Congolese civil war of the 1990s, just as civil war in Afghanistan is pushing Pakistan to the brink of civil war today (and might push it over in future). Civil war can also lead to regional war as neighboring states intervene in the country in conflict to protect their own interests and prevent their regional adversaries from gaining an advantage: the Congolese civil war invited intervention by seven of its neighbors, Lebanon led to an Israeli-Syrian overt fight followed by a proxy war, Afghanistan led to a covert war between Russia and Pakistan (backed by the United States) and there are numerous other cases along these lines.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Syria-Turkey war independently escalates globally.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Snyder 11 - Michael T. Snyder is an attorney who currently resides in the Seattle, Washington area, Could We Actually See A War Between Syria And Turkey?, Straight Stocks, 6-27, [[http://www.straightstocks.com/current-market-news/could-we-actually-see-a-war-between-syria-and-turkey/]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The important thing to keep in mind in all of this is that Turkey is a member of NATO. If anyone attacks Turkey, NATO has a duty to protect them. If Syria attacked Turkey or if it was made to appear that Syria had attacked Turkey, then NATO would have the justification it needs to go to war with Syria. If NATO goes to war with Syria, it is very doubtful that Iran would just sit by and watch it happen. Syria is a very close ally to Iran and the Iranian government would likely consider an attack on their neighbor to be a fundamental threat to their nation. In fact, there are already reports in the international media that Iran has warned Turkey that they better not allow NATO to use their airbases to attack Syria. So if it was NATO taking on Syria and Iran, who else in the Middle East would jump in? Would Russia and China sit by and do nothing while all of this was going on? Could a conflict in the Middle East be the thing that sets off World War III?</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Escalation highly likely – this card answers all their takeouts.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AP 3/27/12 - (“Syrian Uprising: Why It Matters”, p. [[http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/syrian-uprising-matters-16013959#.T3Iq8NVOZAM|http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/syrian-uprising-matters-16013959#.T3Iq8NVOZAM]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">The uprising in Syria is swiftly transforming into a civil war that could lay waste to the country, and the fallout from the year-old conflict already is bleeding outside the country's borders. Diplomats such as Kofi Annan are working feverishly to end the bloodshed, not only because 9,000 people have been killed since the revolt began last March. The conflict could enflame already simmering regional tensions, give rise to extremists like al-Qaida and upend some of the most enduring alliances in the Middle East and beyond. — THE NEIGHBORHOOD All-out war in Syria could spark a regional conflagration. Syria is a vital geopolitical linchpin. It borders five other nations, has close ties to Iran and powerful militant groups, and controls water supplies to Iraq, Jordan and parts of Israel. Syria controlled Lebanon for decades and still carries sway there. The Syrian unrest could provoke fighting in Lebanon, which is still haunted by its own civil war. And although Damascus and Israel are officially at war and Israel has occupied Syria's Golan Heights since 1967, the frontier has remained quiet under Assad's rule. — THE ALLEGIANCES Syria is a highly unpredictable country, in part because of its web of allegiances to powerful forces, including Lebanon's Hezbollah and close ally Iran. The collapse of Assad's rule would likely end Iran's cozy ties with Syria and potentially redraw the Mideast's pathways of influence. Instead of the so-called Shiite crescent — from Iran through Iraq and onto Assad's regime, led by Shiite offshoot Alawites — a new corridor of Sunni allies could be forged from Saudi Arabia, through Jordan and into Syria. It would also choke off money and supply channels to Tehran's main anti-Israel faction, Hezbollah in Lebanon, as well as Hamas in Gaza. — THE EXTREMIST FACTOR U.S. intelligence officials have pointed to al-Qaida in Iraq as the likely culprit behind several recent suicide bombings in Syria, raising the possibility its fighters are infiltrating across the border to take advantage of the turmoil. The Sunni Muslim extremists who support al-Qaida will fight to oust Assad, given that his Alawite sect is aligned with Shiism. Al-Qaida's involvement could further fuel sectarian tensions unleashed by the uprising. — LOOMING CIVIL WAR The Syrian conflict has fed into the country's sectarian tensions. The regime is dominated by the Alawite minority, an offshoot of Shiite Islam to which Assad belongs. Assad, and his father who ruled the country before him, reserved the top echelons of the military and political leadership for Alawites, which bred smoldering resentments. But Sunnis make up the majority of Syria's 22 million people, as well as the backbone of the opposition. Even as much of the opposition insists the movement is entirely secular, reports from the ground suggest religious tensions are boiling over.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Strategic interventions now prevent ground wars and further escalation. Strengthens the effectiveness of airpower</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haddick 8/10/12 - Robert Haddick, managing editor of Small Wars Journal at Foreign Policy Magazine, "The Next Proxy War," Foreign Policy, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/08/10/advice_to_the_us_on_syria]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">A key step in formulating effective strategy is confining oneself to realistic and obtainable goals. Significantly shortening Syria's war, determining which factions come out on top, and seizing control of Syria's most threatening weapons in the midst of chaotic combat are goals very likely beyond the grasp of U.S. policymakers, at least at reasonable cost. The senators' rationale for U.S. intervention implies an ability to influence events in Syria beyond what seems feasible. Should U.S. intervention fail to rapidly end the war or quickly seize Syria's chemical weapons, the United States would risk finding itself climbing a ladder of escalation, with increasing use of air power and even ground troops in an effort to achieve the campaign's goals. Once committed in a large and visible way, U.S. prestige would be at risk, forcing policymakers to continue adding resources in the hope of achieving overly ambitious objectives. However, that does not mean that the United States should avoid the conflict. In fact, there are important and achievable objectives in Syria, obtainable with little risk and for a modest price. Rather than attempting to influence the course of Syria's civil war, something largely beyond Washington's control, U.S. policymakers should instead focus on strengthening America's diplomatic position and on building irregular warfare capabilities that will be crucial in future conflicts in the region. Modest and carefully circumscribed intervention in Syria, in coordination with America's Sunni allies who are already players in the war, will bolster critical relationships and irregular warfare capabilities the United States and its allies will need for the future.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Partnerships and irregular warfare are key to airpower diplomacy - makes airpower more effective and palatable</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lowther 11/22/11 — (Adam Lowther, USAF Air University, "Why U.S. Needs Airpower Diplomacy," The Diplomat,[[http://thediplomat.com/2011/11/22/why-u-s-needs-airpower-diplomacy/2/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">Airpower diplomacy, also known as building partnerships by the U.S. Air Force, offers some distinct advantages over any alternatives. Best thought of as the non-kinetic application of air, space, and cyber power, airpower diplomacy is a form of soft power that’s useful in strengthening existing relationships and developing new ones—while protecting American interests. The U.S. Air Force has successfully employed airpower diplomacy in one iteration or another for more than six decades. Its strengths are in three distinct areas. First, airpower, broadly speaking, is able to overcome the distances that make the Asia-Pacific such a challenging region. As the single largest feature on the earth’s surface, the Pacific Ocean makes it difficult for the United States to respond quickly with men and material to unexpected events in the region. With airpower, there’s no place on earth that the United States can’t reach in less than 24 hours. However, aircraft must land, which is why building partnerships—of mutual interests—with countries in the region is a critical component of airpower diplomacy. For many nations in the Asia-Pacific, walking a careful line between China and the United States is the unenviable position in which they find themselves. As the most advanced air, space, and cyber force in the world, the U.S. Air Force is a desirable partner for many countries. This provides a natural advantage for the United States. However, ensuring that the U.S. doesn’t overplay its hand is important if airpower diplomacy is to succeed. Second, airpower diplomacy is a cost-effective alternative to the use of force. Since it’s a concept that focuses on the application of soft power, airpower diplomacy is far more than just American aircraft sitting on the ramps of foreign airfields. It builds partnerships through economic ties, training and support of local forces, humanitarian relief, joint operations, and much more. For example, Fifth Air Force, based at Yokota Air Force Base in Japan, has provided assistance to victims of floods, typhoons, volcanoes, and earthquakes on numerous occasions in recent years. The Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami (2004), Burma cyclone (2008), Indonesian earthquake (2009), and the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami (2011) are some examples of where airpower diplomacy played a leading role in the United States’ response to natural disasters. In the case of the Indian Ocean and Tohoku earthquakes and tsunamis, a strong American response led to improved relations between the United States and Indonesia in the first case and the United States and Japan in the second. This was airpower diplomacy at work. An often overlooked example of airpower diplomacy is the U.S. Air Force’s Inter-American Air Forces Academy (IAAFA) at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. There, students from across Latin America attend courses ranging from aircraft maintenance to professional leadership. The school’s broader objective is to build a community of airmen with the skills to lead capable air forces in their home countries—making cooperation with the United States more likely. In these and many other instances, airpower diplomacy acts as a cost-effective way for the United States to build partnerships with nations that share common interests. And, by strengthening relationships, the United States is less likely to find itself in a costly conflict with what could have been a partner. Third, airpower and airpower diplomacy don’t require permanent large footprint bases that are both expensive for the United States and a political irritant for many governments in the region. With the U.S. pivoting toward the Asia-Pacific, a growth in the number of American main-operating bases in the region would be expected. Airpower diplomacy, however, focuses on the use of joint operations, short-term deployments, and other temporary measures, enabling the United States to maintain a regional presence—demonstrating commitment—while eliminating concerns of an American occupation. Flexible operations and arrangements also have the added benefit of proving to be less of a stressor in the host nation’s relationship with China, which is becoming increasingly important for every nation in the region. The United States’ attempt to conduct what Secretary of State Clinton calls “forward deployed diplomacy,” a strategy in which American airmen operate with their host nation counterparts at bases owned and operated by the host nation, may prove a far superior option to one resembling Cold War NATO where up to several hundred thousand Americans were stationed in Western Europe.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Key to deter global war</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tellis 98 - [Ashley, Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]], accessed on 7/19/12]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">REGIONAL CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will of necessity be the primary instruments constituting the American response. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea. In each of these cases, U.S. responses may vary from simply being a concerned onlooker to prosecuting the whole range of military operations to providing post-conflict assistance in a permissive environment. Depending on the political choices made, Air Force contributions would obviously vary. If the first response is selected, contributions would consist predominantly of vital, specialized, airbreathing platforms such as AWACS, JSTARS, and Rivet Joint—in tandem with controlled space assets—that would be necessary for assessment of political crises erupting in the region. The second response, in contrast, would burden the entire range of U.S. Air Force capabilities, in the manner witnessed in Operation Desert Storm. The third response, like the first, would call for specialized capabilities, mostly in the areas of strategic lift and airborne tanker support. The third key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that despite increasing regional air capabilities, U.S. Air Force assets will be required to fill gaps in critical warfighting areas. The capabilities of the Asian states, including those of U.S. allies and neutral states, have been steadily increasing in the last two decades.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[ ] Criticisms of intervention ignore structural violence and the conditions on the ground - escalates. Safe zones are key</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Haggerty 2012 - Brian T Haggerty, Security Studies Program, Political Science @ MIT, "Safe Havens in Syria: Missions and Requirements for an Air Campaign," SSP Working Papers, [[http://web.mit.edu/ssp/publications/working_papers/Syria%20WP%2012-01.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 4pt;">With the prospect of civil war looming, the regime’s counterinsurgency campaign has transformed cities and towns across the country into “dangerous environments” for civilians stuck in the crossfire. 24 Civilians who remain in their homes are subjected to indiscriminate firepower by al-Assad’s security forces ostensibly used to root out insurgents. 25 Civilians are also targeted directly, subjected to brutal forms of intimidation, torture, and execution in attempts to frighten the insurgency’s supporters into fleeing armed centers of resistance. 26 As of early July 2012, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition watchdog group based in the UK, estimates more than 11,486 civilians have been killed in Syria since the government’s crackdown began, with nearly 17,000 killed overall. 27 Though data on the distribution of deaths is not wholly reliable, one organization the U.N. has consulted in constructing its estimates suggests that the cities and towns suffering the greatest number of dead include Homs, Hama, Houla, alQusayr, and Rastan in the central-western part of the country; Idlib and Jisr al-Shughour in the northwest; Deir al-Zour in the east; Dara’a in the south; the capital, Damascus, and nearby Douma (for a map of Syria, see Figure 1). 28 Residents under siege have faced cuts to water, electricity, and phone lines and shortages of essentials such as food, medicine, baby formula, and gasoline. 29 In May 2012, the Red Crescent estimated that as many as 1.5 million people in Syria needed assistance obtaining food, water, or shelter. 30 Others have fled their homes, becoming internally displaced persons (IDPs) or refugees in camps outside Syria. As of late June 2012, the United Nations had registered more than 90,000 refugees who had fled Syria to the neighboring countries of Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq. 31 In the process, those fleeing have encountered newly-placed land mines along the Turkish and Lebanese borders. 32 The International Displacement Monitoring Centre, a non-governmental organization based in Geneva, estimates at least 156,000 were newly displaced in 2011, while UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has expressed fears that as many as one million are currently displaced inside Syria. 33 Countless others have been injured, imprisoned, tortured and forcibly disappeared. Heavy-handed government repression, brutal counterinsurgency tactics, and sectarian killings by pro-government militias have thus resulted in a widespread humanitarian crisis across Syria. In the next section, I draw on NATO’s responses to past humanitarian crises to frame a notional intervention broadly conceived as the establishment of safe havens defended from the air.</span>

Contention 2 is Agency Coordination
**NextGen forces agency coordination and tech transfer by creating mechanisms and agencies**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillingham</span> Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>
Gerald Dillingham, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues, 6-10, [“Mechanisms for Collaboration and Technology Transfer Could Be Enhanced to More Fully Leverage Partner Agency and Industry Resources,” Report to Congressional Requesters, [[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-604|www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-604]]] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NAS consists...</span>the partner agencies.

**African aviation is underfunded and dangerous now – Following a US example is key to airworthiness**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Se’ Kapchangah, Aviation Security Consultant</span> in Nairobi, Kenya <span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>
Mutali K. Se’ Kapchangah, Aviation Security Consultant in Nairobi, Kenya, 7-15-08 , [“Africa Aviation Security: Implications for Peace and Security,” I n s t i t u t e f o r S e c u r i t y S t u d i e s, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/99981/ipublicationdocument_singledocument/780781cb-117b-4b0e-be8f-38369d511056/en/SITREP150708%255B1%255D.pdf] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In general, the...the right direction</span>

**US agency coordination is key to effective African aviation assistance**
Gerald <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillingham</span>, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues, 6-<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>, [“Federal Efforts Help Address Safety Challenges in Africa, but Could Benefit from Reassessment and Better Coordination,” United States Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d09498.pdf|www.gao.gov/new.items/d09498.pdf]]] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In addition, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">better...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">achieve tangible results. </span>


**Independently, European environmental regulations discriminate against and undermine developing aviation sectors**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nkuepo, Research Scholar,</span> **Law School –** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">University of Iowa</span> **(USA),** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>
Henri J. Nkuepo, Research Scholar, Law School – University of Iowa (USA), Associate Fellow, CISDL – University of McGill (Montreal- Canada), 4-26-12, [“EU ETS Aviation Discriminates against Developing Countries ,” Africa’s Trade Law Newsletter Issue: 7, papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2047247] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This is the...the transportation costs. </span>


**African inconsistency with aviation safety standards encourages terrorism, crime, instability, and state failure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Se’ Kapchangah</span>, Aviation Security Consultant in Nairobi, Kenya <span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>
Mutali K. Se’ Kapchangah, Aviation Security Consultant in Nairobi, Kenya, 7-15-08 , [“Africa Aviation Security: Implications for Peace and Security,” I n s t i t u t e f o r S e c u r i t y S t u d i e s, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/99981/ipublicationdocument_singledocument/780781cb-117b-4b0e-be8f-38369d511056/en/SITREP150708%255B1%255D.pdf] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Non-compliance with...as pariah states.</span>

**Localized conflicts go global and cause nuclear weapon use**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, et al. 11 </span>
Michael Emerson, Senior Research Fellow at CEPS, Centre for European Policy Studies, et al., Nathalie Tocci, Richard Youngs Jean-Pierre Cassarino, Christian Egenhofer, Giovanni Grevi , 7-11, [“Global Matrix ,” CEPS Working Documents, [[http://www.ceps.eu/ceps/download/5936|www.ceps.eu/ceps/download/5936]]] E. Liu
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Drivers. The end...Middle East and Sudan). </span>


==**JV State**== 
http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2012-2013+-+Northview+%28GA%29+-+Akash+Doshi+%26+Raghav+Kaul





=Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Wake Forest=== 
Round 2: Highways (Westminster HB)
States CP
Transportation Rationality K
Elections DA-Obama Good (China Currency Manipulator)
2NR: DA

Round 3: Port Security (Chattahoochee LM)
T-Substantial
Security K
States CP
Decouple CP
2NR: K


Round 5: Roads to Nowhere Kritikal Aff (Caddo Magnet CD)
States CP
Elections DA-Obama Good (China Currency Manipulator)
Security K
Case turns (Extinction Bad)
2NR: Case turns
===Chattahoochee=== 
Round 2: Port Security (Houston County PH)
Elections DA
Transportation Rationality K
T - Substantial
2NR: Elections DA


Round 4: New Orleans Kritical Aff (Wheeler ML)
Framework
T - Investment
States CP
2NR: T, Framework


Round 6: Nextgen (Johns Creek AT)
Elections DA
Security K
Privitization CP
2NR: Elections DA

===Alpharetta=== 
Round 2: Port Security (Chattahoochee DM)
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agenda Politics (Fiscal Cliff-ME War)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Devolution CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security K</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">T-Underlying Structures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Devolution, Fiscal cliff</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 4: Port Security (Chattahoochee SA)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Agenda Politics (Fiscal Cliff-ME War)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Devolution CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security K</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">T-Underlying Structures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2NR: Devolution, Fiscal cliff</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ohio Valley</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1: ITS (Heg, Warming)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fiscal Cliff-Econ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">States CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security K</span>
Case-Hegemony Bad
2nr: States CP, Fiscal Cliff

Round 3: Icebreakers (Arctic Shield, Naval Power, Extraction)
T-Vehicles
Fiscal Cliff-Econ
Private sector counterplan
Security K
Case-Hegemony Bad
2nr: K

Round 6: Bicycles (Petrotopia, Cycling)
Framework
Fiscal Cliff-Econ
State PIK
Case-Ableism
2nr: Fiscal Cliff