[[toc]]
For cites, info, more cowbell, or someone to talk to, email [[mailto:jgold717@gmail.com|jgold717@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Berkeley== 
Same as Stanford
==1AC Stanford== 
===Changes=== 
**Took out UAS advantage, put in nanotech advantage, changed plantext, added loan guarantees solvency card**
===Plan=== 
**The United States federal government should issue loan guarantees to substantially increase funding for En Route Automation Modernization on the Next Generation Air Transportation System.**

===Nanotech Advantage=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nanotech development is __inevitable__ by 2020; __it’s only a question of effectiveness__. The plan is key to developing safe and useful technology.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Francis 04 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Michael Francis is a scientist at Acc’elrys a software company, The Big Picture for Nanotechnology and Computational Science, http://www.scientific-computing.com/features/feature.php?feature_id=66, //azp//)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Learning from past policy responses is key to develop an effective nanotech regulatory regime</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Karkkainen 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, University of Minnesota professor</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bradley C. Karkkainen, University of Minnesota faculty in January 2004 at the rank of Professor. He held the Julius E. Davis Chair in Law in 2004, former Associate Professor at Columbia Law School, 1-11-11, [“Does nanobiotechnology oversight present a uniquely complex challenge to interagency cooperation?,” SPECIAL FOCUS: GOVERNANCE OF NANOBIOTECHNOLOGY, www.springerlink.com/index/R6178257PJ106721.pdf] E. Liu</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan creates interagency coordination in environmental regulation – It integrates different fields, agencies and disciplines to facilitate discussions - __effectiveness__ is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Checchio 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Robert A Checchio, Vice President, Legislation Affairs, Mid-Atlantic Aviation Coalition, Aviation Policy and Economics Researcher, 11, [“CRISIS IN THE SKY: THE CHALLENGES OF DEVELOPING A UNITED STATES NATIONAL AVIATION POLICY,” Ph. D. Thesis, http://mss3.libraries.rutgers.edu/dlr/outputds.php?pid=rutgers-lib:31018&mime=application/pdf&ds=PDF-1] E. Liu</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">That interagency coordination is key to regulate nanotechnology</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Karkkainen 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, University of Minnesota professor,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bradley C. Karkkainen, University of Minnesota faculty in January 2004 at the rank of Professor. He held the Julius E. Davis Chair in Law in 2004, former Associate Professor at Columbia Law School, 1-11-11, [“Does nanobiotechnology oversight present a uniquely complex challenge to interagency cooperation?,” SPECIAL FOCUS: GOVERNANCE OF NANOBIOTECHNOLOGY, www.springerlink.com/index/R6178257PJ106721.pdf] E. Li</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Transition to nanotech is inevitable—responsible management solves grey goo, miscalculation, and nano-diseases—each causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vandermolen 6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Thomas D., BS, Louisiana Tech University; MA, Naval War College), is officer in charge, Maritime Science and Technology Center, Yokosuka, Japan. He was previously assigned as a student at the Naval War College, Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, we solve your disad impacts - independently nanotech creates a mechanism for dispute settlement that solves escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Barfield 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, James Barfield is a staffwriter at the Guardian, Get Ready for a world of Nanotechnology, This evidence is gender modified, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/sep/02/nanotechnology-world-technological-leap]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, it makes nuke war survivable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gubrud 97</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Mark Avrum Gubrud. Superconductivity Researcher at U of MD. 1997. “Nanotechnology and International Security.” Foresight 5th Conference Paper. [[http://www.csr.umd.edu/~mgubrud/nanosec1.html]] [Bapodra]</span>

===Loan Guarantees Solvency=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Loan guarantees solve and are __distinct__ from spending</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thisdell 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">(Dan, Business Editor – Flight Global Magazine, “Finance is About Risk As Much As Cash”, Space, Time, and Money, 7-4, http://thisdell.wordpress.com/2011/04/07/finance-is-about-risk-as-much-as-cash/)</span>

==1AC Golden Desert== 
===Changes=== 
Same advantages as NextGen aff with new mechanism
===ERAM Mechanism=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">NextGen was fully funded last year</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Grady 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Mary, staff writer for AV WEB “Four-Year FAA Funding Bill Accelerates NextGen”)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But, En Route Automation Modernization funding was cut to zero - destroys any future ATC upgrades</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Perera 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (David, FierceMarkets Government Group, “Congress says no to upgrade in ERAM funding,”)</span>

===Plan=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and implement En Route Automation Modernization on the Next Generation Air Transportation System</span>**

==1AC Meadows - Big Brother== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Contention One: Big Brother is Watching You</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">1. The government, military, and law enforcement have been stepping up its use of domestic surveillance drones, creating the ultimate Panopticon in the sky above</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">ACLU 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (The American Civil Liberties Union, “ACLU Report on Domestic Drones Finds Need for New Privacy Protections”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">A report released today...Privacy & Technology Project.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2**. This apparatus of force and violence towards a “surveillant subject” and the omniscient observer from above encompasses all other civilian surveillance systems, and creates a distance that ensures subjectivity and control** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Harris 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, C. V. , -05-23 "Google Earth® and the Omniscient Gaze" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Communication Association, TBA, San Francisco, CA Online <PDF></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">**Military** imagery **intelligence systems**...over what is being observed.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3. This division between ideal forms of species is the root cause of conflict---wars are fought not because of a particular sovereign geopolitical interest but because of the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Elden 2</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">lecturer in politics at the University of Warwick, England. (Stuart, boundary 2 29.1 (2002) 125-151, “The War of Races and the Constitution of the State: Foucault's «Il faut défendre la société» and the Politics of Calculation,” Project Muse. Gender edited</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">The reverse side is... **so many** [men] **people to be killed.**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">**Contention Two: The Cyborg**</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. Military surveillance blurs the line between the human and the machine used to monitor them- creating virtual imagery and technical interoperability that establishes the perfect metaphorical cyborg</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Harris 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, C. V. -05-23 "Google Earth® and the Omniscient Gaze" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Communication Association, TBA, San Francisco, CA Online <PDF>. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>** kinds of **human-machine**...information through the system.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. This sustains government attempts to computerize and mechanize populations- they become commodities that are assimilated into the cybernetic infrastructure of the state security network </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Dillon & Reid 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Michael and Julian, Michael Dillon is Professor of Politics in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster and Julian Reid is a Doctoral Student in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster, Global Liberal Governance: Biopolitics, Security, and War, 2001. Millennium - Journal of International Studies, pp.56-57)</span>
As the bios is...<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">problematisations of security</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>**


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3**. Constant surveillance in the pursuit of a perfectly ordered population with machine quality precision fortifies disciplinary powers that turn humans into machines who act as the political tells them too- this eliminates all freedom and justifies mass atrocities.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Clifford 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Michael Clifford is a professor of philosophy at the Mississippi State University. He holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Vanderbilt University. "Political Genealogy After Foucault." Routledge Publications, 2001. pg. 48 DC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The chief function...most modern institutions.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. The impact is extinction – a commitment to the administration of life establishes a power-knowledge regime that makes wars, conflicts, and the death of entire populations vital – we detach ourselves from those we must kill – who put society’s stability at risk </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Bernauer 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, James, Professor of Philosophy at Boston College, Critical Essays on Michel Foucault, ed. Racvskis, pg 190-193</span>
The title of this...[bios] to biological life.

===Contention Three: Infinite Responsibility=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. The victims of the government high-tech war machine, or the “spied upon” become the Other- terminally warred against and subject to the state’s precision weaponized violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Huhtinen </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">and Rantapelkonen 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">**,** Aki-Mauri and Jari. "The War Against the Other and the Us - Political and Philosophical Problems of Postmodern World’s Atmosphere" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association 48th Annual Convention, Hilton Chicago, CHICAGO, IL, USA, Feb 28, Online <PDF></span>
Thanks to the information...**"We are all Americans."**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Infinite responsibility to the Other is necessary to solve genocide and demands that we challenge the state’s actions despite politics or the possibility of war to prevent injustice through personal and political action.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, David, professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle, Moral Spaces, p. 40-41</span>
Even though Levinas's...of my relation to the Other.

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3**. All evil is committed in the name of Survival** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Callahan 73</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**,** institute of Society and Ethics, (Daniel, “The Tyranny of Survival”, p. 91-3)</span>
The value of survival...to end all Pyrrhic victories.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. Through our relationship to the Other, we can short-circuit apocalyptic confrontations and violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Fasching 93</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, Darrell, The Ethical Challenge Of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia?, pg 4-5</span>
The best way to describe...postmodern alienated theology

===Contention Four: Solvency=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. The only way to drive a stake through the heart of the imperial gaze is to step decisively away from it- only when we detach ourselves from responsibility does violence occur </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Harris 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, C. V., 05-23 "Google Earth® and the Omniscient Gaze" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Communication Association, TBA, San Francisco, CA Online <PDF>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">In order to illustrate...**dominant imperial gaze**.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Our demand turns the tables of the biopolitical apparatus. Our discourse and plan are a strategy that reverses power relations</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, David, professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle, Writing Security, pg. 204-205</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Recognizing the possibility of...issued claims on society.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3. Our act of resistance, and integration into the discussion of violence perpetrated by state surveillance can break down the panopticon </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Morgareidge 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> Clayton, Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College, 2/26/2001, “The Global Panopticon,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Foucault's central lesson...managed by the super-state.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. Prefer Pragmatism- Deconstruction without action for material justice blocks political escape from oppression and reinforces ivory tower elitism</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Cook 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, Anthony, Associate Professor at Georgetown Law, New England Law Review</span>
The effect of deconstructing...prestige, wealth, and power.

===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States federal government should convert all of its domestic surveillance UAVs into cargo transportation UAVs.</span>**

===Contention Five: The Dare=== 

**We Dare you to read the politics disad**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1. We cannot use political expediency as an excuse to rank and choose priorities- political influence is not finite and does not justify putting civil rights on the back burner</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Ruby-Sachs 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, J.D. from the University of Toronto and practices civil litigation, (Emma, 11/24, “Ranking the issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis"</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">On Friday, the Washington Times...priority for all of us.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2. Don’t evaluate the reactions of others to your ethical decision to uphold the rights of the individual – invites atrocities</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Gewirth 82**, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Chicago</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Alan, Human Rights: Essays on Justification and Application, p. 229-230)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Nevertheless, the distinctions...right remains absolute.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">3**. We should resist calls to maintain current policies out of fear of a political backlash—this same utilitarian calculus has been continually used to justify the slaughter of millions of innocent people**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Shattuck 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">, John, John F. Kennedy Library Foundation, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, “Book Launch—‘Freedom on Fire: Human Rights Wars and America’s Response,’” </span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">4. Util is based on a sovereign subjectivity which reduces human lives to currency. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">**Dillon 99**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, Michael, Professor of Politics and IR at Lancaster, Political Theory, Vol. 27 No. 2</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">The return of the ontological...we have to bear witness to it.</span>



==1AC Long Beach - NextGen== 
===Inherency=== 
**NextGen has already been allocated limited funds by Congress, but needs more to be fully implemented**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Bin Salam 12** (Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">On the policy-side...potential NextGen beneficiaries</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should fully fund the Next Generation Air Transportation System**

===**UAS Advantage**=== 
T**he current Airspace system sucks and cannot handle UAS capabilities – the plan is key to the transition**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Toner 12** (Dr. Karlin Toner, Director of the Joint Production and Development Office, “Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) in a NextGen Environment” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This is a new frontier...and procedures it needs</span>


**NextGen is key to domestic UAS integration**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Johnson 10** (Chuck Johnson, NASA, Project Manager: UAS Integration in the NAS, 12/7/10, “UAS Integration in the NAS Project – Project Overview”</span>
The JPDO is tasked...the Integrated Work Plan

__**Three Impacts: First is Pyroterror**__
**A Pyroterror attack is inevitable in the status quo and we have no defense**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Deshpande 9** </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">a a Royal Military College of Canada, Kingston, Ontario, Canada</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Version of record first published: 20 Jan </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Pyro-Terrorism: Recent Cases and the Potential for Proliferation, Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, 32:1, 36-44.</span>
Pyro-terrorism has the potential...lives on a massive scale

**Wildfires release mass amounts of uniquely dangerous air pollutants**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">CDPH 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">( The California Department of Public Health, “Wildfire Smoke” Revised July 2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Smoke is a complex mixture...health concern than larger particles</span>


**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Air pollution independently causes extinction</span>**

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Salvador 7 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Lourdes Salvador, Writer and Social Advocate for American Chronicle. "Human Extinction," 4/14/07 )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The most common pattern...obviously doesn't always work</span>


**Air pollution destroys honeybee population**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Eilpern 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;"> (Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer, “Air Pollution Impedes Bees' Ability to Find Flowers” Washington Post, 5/05/08)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Scientists already knew...fashion may be playing a role</span>


**The impact is extinction – bees are key to our survival**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Watson 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">(Joseph Watson, Prison Planet News. “Ecological Apocalypse: Why Are All the Bees Dying” )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The alarming decline in bee...Where is Greenpeace?</span>


**UAS systems solve wildfires**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moose 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, (Major, USAF, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Robert G. Moose, Major, USAF, 12-08, [“COVERING THE HOMELAND: NATIONAL GUARD UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS SUPPORT FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTING AND NATURAL DISASTER EVENTS,” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The benefit UAS assets...personell injury/death</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">**Second Impact: Nuke Terror**</span>__


**Terrorists will smuggle in a dirty bomb through the Mexican border**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">IPT 10 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Investigative Project on Terrorism, “New Terror Threat On Mexico Border”, July 20, 2010, </span>
Border: A Hezbollah-like car bomb...may be yet to come

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A nuclear attack on the US ensures retaliation – this escalates to global nuke war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> – 06 JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary [Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” __William & Mary Law Review__, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Accordingly, there is a significant...to the use of nuclear weapons</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Increased UAS systems solve</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Miller and Engelhardt 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> [Todd Miller, author and researcher on border wars, Tom Engelhardt, an author and Teaching Fellow at the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley. “Bringing the Battlefield to the Border  The Wild World of Border Security and Boundary Building in Arizona”, June 7, 2012)</span>
Drones are nothing new...for-profit war

__**Third Impact: Caribbean**__
**Drones are key to interdictions that solve the Caribbean drug trade**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Purdy 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Ellen, director, Joint Ground Robotics Enterprise, within the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, and is responsible for oversight and funding of ground robotics technology development, “The Increasing Role of Robots in National Security” May-June 2008, Defense AT&L, pg 27)</span>
In U.S. Southern Command's...and harmed by insurgents

**Specifically, the caribbean drug trade guarantees LNG attacks, bio-terror, and collapse of the global supply of ammonium**
**Flynn and Bryan 1**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Stephen, Senior Fellow @ CFR and Commander in US Coast Guard, and Anthony, Dir. North-South Center’s Caribbean Program, “Terrorism, Porous Borders, and Homeland Security: The Case for U.S.-Caribbean Cooperation” October 21, 2001)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorist acts can take place...within national borders</span>


**Bioterrorism causes extinction**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Steinbruner 97</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, Sydney Stein Jr chair in International Security, Vice Chair of the Committee in International Security and Arms Control of the National Academy of Sciences, ’97 (John, December 22, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses” Foreign Policy, No 109 p 85, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">As we enter the twenty-first...its outer limit</span>


**So does LNG attacks**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lovins and Lovins 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> [Amory Lovins- Co-Founder of Rocky Mountain Institute and six honorary doctorates and numerous major awards, including a 1997 Heinz Award, a 1993 MacArthur Fellowship, and the Onassis Foundation’s first Delphi Prize in 1989, and with Hunter Lovins he has shared a 1999 Lindbergh Award, a 1993 Nissan Prize, a 1983 Right Livelihood Award , Hunter Lovins- a former co-CEO of Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based nonprofit resource policy think tank. She holds a BA from Pitzer College, a JD from Loyola University School of Law with the Alumni Award for Outstanding Service to the School, and an honorary LHD from the University of Maine. “Brittle Power”- 2001 update and re-release of 1982 book. Pg 87-88]</span>
LNG is less than half as dense...**fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.**

**Ammonium’s the only check on global food crises**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rauhauser 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, Neal Rauhauser Helped to create Progressive Congress News, worked 44 elections in 2010 - he cites the Spring 2009 National Renewable Ammonia Architecture, http://www.dailykos.com/story/2009/05/11/730210/-The-National-Renewable-Ammonia-Architecture-Spring-2009</span>
**High yielding hybrids require**...**rioting in the streets**

**Food crises cause global wars**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(Lester R, - founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute “Can Food Shortages Bring Down Civilization?” Scientific American, May)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**The biggest threat to global stability...of global civilization** itself.</span>

===Europe Advantage=== 

**U.S. noncompliance with Europe’s airline emissions reduction guarantees a trade war in __months__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**EurActiv 8/1**, MEP slams U.S. Congress on ETS: “Arrogant and ignorant, Center covering EU News and Policy Discussions</span>
A leading MEP strongly...**payment** on emissions.

**Official EU Policy ensures status quo trade war**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Osipovich 8/2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, Alexander Osipovich is a staffwriter at Risk.net which covers the economic effects of national and international developments, Airlines face Regulatory Uncertainty in US-EU Emissions Standoff, </span>
"What it means is...**fears of a trade war.**

**But, cutting airline emissions __now__ prevents conflict**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Murray 8/2**, (All eyes on ICAO as nations seek to avoid emissions row, James Murray is a staff writer at Business Green)</span>
**The EU** has **repeatedly...always pushed for**

**Protectionism would ensue escalating to global nuclear war**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Pazner 8**, Michael, Panzner 2008 faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks</span>
Continuing calls for curbs...of a new world war

**NextGen solves - lets us have interoperability with Europe’s SESAR program that fosters collaboration**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">SJU 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> (SESAR Joint Undertaking, the agency that is implementing Europe’s new ATC system, “SESAR and interoperability”, 6-4-11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">As the world's two most...(common procedures) dimensions.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Aerospace Advantage</span>=== 


**Aerospace industry is on the brink – collapse will be fast and will take decades to recover**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Albaugh 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Jim, Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and member of the International Academy of Astronautics, 4/27, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit US Chamber of Commerce)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">**Today we take America's**...**and we paid the price as a result.**</span>


**<span class="Style">Fully funding NextGen is key to aerospace leadership </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Blakely 11** (Marion, President and CEO of Aerospace Industries Association, 6-30-11 "Second to None - Maintaining U.S. Aerospace Leadership in the 21st Century”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Second to None Campaign...level Congress should approve.</span>


**Heg decline results in global conflict—successors won’t fill in and multiple hotspots escalate**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Brzezinski 12**—Professor of Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins. Zbigniew, After America, Foreign Policy, Jan/Dec 2012, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">For **if America falters...** **slide into global turmoil.**</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">**Negative**</span>= 

==Biopower K== 

**Transportation infrastructure investment allows domination of transport spaces—personal freedom and mobility are lost in the name of creating a more effective mobility**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Flyvbjerg and Richardson 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—Aalborg University, Department of Development and Planning AND Department of Town and Regional Planning(Bent Flyvbjerg and Tim Richardson, “Planning and Foucault In Search of the Dark Side of Planning Theory” [[http://flyvbjerg.plan.aau.dk/DarkSide2.pdf]], nkj)</span>


**The impact is extinction – biopower makes nuclear war between populations and genocide inevitable in the name of the preservation of life**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bernauer 92</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, James, Professor of Philosophy at Boston College, Critical Essays on Michel Foucault, ed. Racvskis, pg 190-193</span>


**The alternative is to reject the affirmative and embrace an aesthetic of resistance—questioning and criticizing the norms which have invented and produced our identity—can we open up space for liberation and subvert the violent hegemony of disciplinary power.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Policante 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (amedeo, phd candidate in the graduate programme in politics @ goldsmiths college, u. Of london, "war against biopower - timely reflections on an historicist foucault" theory & event, vol. 13.1, project muse bb)</span>


==Commissions CP== 


**Text: The United States federal government should establish an external, independent review body to consult over whether it should [insert plan text]. The United States federal government should implement the recommendations of the review body.**


**Establishing an independent commission to evaluate policy eliminates partisanship and solves the aff**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwalbe 03</span> – Steve Schwalbe, Master’s degree in Public Administration from Golden Gate University; a Master’s degree from the Naval Postgraduate School; a Master’s degree from the Naval War College; an ABD from The George Washington University; and, a PhD from Auburn University in Public Policy, 2003, “Independent Commissions: Their History, Utilization and Effectiveness” http://www.naspaa.org/initiatives/paa/pdf/Steve_Schwalbe.pdf

==Cap K== 
**Federal infrastructure projects are situated within history as a tool to integrate both the nation and the world into the global capitalist order of the US – This creates an imperial ideology that justifies the ruthless expansion of capital into foreign markets**
**Smith 8** (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3 2008, Muse)
**By using the lens...**public works projects.

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Capitalism causes extinction and destroys value to life** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Simonovic 7** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[Ljubodrag, Ph.D. in Philosophy; M.A. in Law; author of seven books, 2007, A New World is Possible, “Basis of contemporary critical theory of capitalism.”] Gender edited</span>
**The final stage of**...life is taking place.

**Structural violence outweighs everything**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Abu-Jamal 98-</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[Mumia, award winning Pennsylvania journalist, quotes James Gilligan, Professor at Harvard/NYU, “A quiet and deadly violence”)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Our alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capitalism. We must reject capitalism in all instances we see it being perpetuated—avoids transition wars </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Social Activist since 1968, owns an awesome website, Attended Columbia University and spent a year abroad at the University of Beirut (Lebanon)</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elections DA</span>== 
**Obama is ahead, but barely - It is a close race, and a substantial number of voters are up for grabs**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reuters, October 23 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">(Obama Holds Narrow Edge Over Mitt Romney With Presidential Election Two Weeks Away: Poll")</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON, Oct 23 (Reuters)...made up their minds.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Infrastructure spending kills re-election**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reinhardt 12 (</span>**William, Founder Public Works Financing, Engineering News Record, 2/27, lexis)

**Romney would strike Iran**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Daily Kos</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> **12** ("President Obama versus Romney on Iran" April 16, 2012)</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Obama</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> in conjunction with...with needless terrorism alerts.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Hirsch 5** - Professor @ UC San Diego</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)</span>
The Bush administration has...**many times over.**

==**Delay CP**== 

**TEXT: The United States federal government should [plan] on November 7, 2012.**

**Congress delays legislation all the time, especially in an election year**
**Montgomery and Birnbaum 8** (Lori Montgomery and Jeffery H. Birnbaum, Washington Post staff writers. “Political Maneuvers Delay Bill After Bill in Senate” June 28, 2008)
**The Senate went home...**that immediately derails it."

==Fiscal Cliff DA== 

**Some UQ evidence**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Two links—first—</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia;">New transportation spending occupies weeks of floor time</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">MWTLC 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Montana Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council, “House and Senate Floor Considerations of Reauthorization Bills Move Slowly,” Congressional Update, 2-17-2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Congressional surface transportation...these extraneous issues."</span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia;">That __crowds-out__ fiscal cliff from the lame duck session</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bucci and Graham 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Steven Bucci, Senior Research Fellow for Defense and Homeland Security, The Heritage Foundation, Ph.D., M.A. International Relations, University of South Carolina, B.S. National Security, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, graduate of the U.S. Army War College, the Hellenic Army War College in Greece and the Senior Seminar of the Department of State; and Owen Graham, Research and Operations Coordinator for National Security and Foreign Policy, The Heritage Foundation, M.A. International Politics, B.A. International Studies, American University; “Sequestration’s Shadow on the Defense Industrial Base,” The Foundry, 7-13-2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So far, neither President...brief lame-duck session.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Second—new spending derails fiscal cliff negotiations—independently __turns case__</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Connor 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Cathy Connor, manager of government affairs, PB Transportation Update, “August 6, 2012 Update,” PB Washington Update, 8-6-2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Congress has started its...House Budget Committee.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Causes Middle East war—overwhelms current checks—also kills the __defense industrial base__</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Hutchison 9/21</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
Despite warnings of the...and punish working families.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Russell 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">, James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Strategic stability...the entire world.</span>

==Security K== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affirmative’s fixation on national interests and enemy creation is empirically the greatest cause of conflicts, facilitates dictatorial control, makes the use of nuclear weapons inevitable, and requires hysteria and willful strategic blindness that makes it a flawed way of viewing the world -- vote neg as an intellectual criticism of the 1ac’s securitizing representations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Shapiro 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Iraq vs. U.S.: Total War Meets Pure War, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.alan-shapiro.com/iraq-vs-u-s-total-war-meets-pure-war/]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Since at least the...politicians and their institutions.</span>

==Immigration DA== 
Some uniqueness evidence

**Plan __guarantees__ a loss of capital – transportation spending is __massively__** **unpopular among Republicans**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">**Rubenstein 12** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Reporter for Capital New York, has written for Bloomberg Businessweek, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the New York Observer, and the Brooklyn Paper</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;"> [Dana Rubenstein “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower moment?” March 27, 2012 http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/03/5524547/when-obama-going-have-his-eisenhower-moment]</span>

**Solves India relations**
**LA Times 11/9****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 11/9/2012 (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)]]</span>


**Solves Taiwan war**

**Gobarev 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute [Cato Policy Analysis #381, "India as a World Power: Changing Washington's Myopic Policy", 9/11/2000, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa381.pdf Victor M Gobarev]</span>


**Extinction**

**Straits Times 2K** [June 25, “No one gains in war over Taiwan”]

===**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Baudrillard K</span>**=== 

**They unquestioningly seek to postpone and eliminate death—this deferral eradicates life**
**Baudrillard 94** Jean Baudrillard, Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, 1994, The Illusion of the End, p. 87-88

**This makes __all impacts inevitable__—this is a __gateway issue__—we won’t cross-apply links**
**Baudrillard 94** Jean Baudrillard, Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, 1994, The Illusion of the End, p. 84-85
=<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Round Reports</span>= 

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Long Beach</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Round 1: Head Royce GK - ITS</span>**
1NC: Biopower K, Commissions CP, Elections, Case
2NR: Condo Good (1AR was 5 mins condo bad)

**Round 4: St Vincent de Paul MG - Kritikal TSA**
1NC: Should PIC, Debate DA, T Increase, Case
2NR: T and Case

**Round 6: Sage Ridge LC - PPSP**
1NC: Biopower K, Commissions CP, Elections, Case
2NR: Biopower

===Meadows=== 
**Round 1: Sage Ridge LC - PPSP**
1NC: Cap K, T Increase=Preexisting, Commissions CP, Elections, Case
2NR: T

**Round 3: Bishop Guertin SC - Gas Tax Mass Transit**
1NC: T Infrastructure, Cap K, Delay CP, Elections, Plan Vagueness, Case
2NR: T and Vagueness

**Round 6: Notre Dame FK - Mass Transit**
1NC: T Repairs, Cap K, Delay CP, Elections, Case
2NR: CP/DA

===Damien=== 
**Round 1: Loyola AI - Guam**
1NC: T Preexisting, Colonialism K, Commissions CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR: CP/DA

**Round 3: LNU CP - Kritikal New Orleans**
1NC: T Preexisting, Biopower K, Fiscal Cliff DA, State Word PIC, Racism Case Turns, Util
2NR: Racism Case Turns

**Round 5: Downtown Magnets ZY - Mass Transit**
1NC: T Preexisting, Cap K, Commissions CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR: CP/DA

**Quarters: Polytechnic WZ - Kritikal Dam Removal**
1NC: T Increase, Cap K (Natives Link), Commissions CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Warming Defense, Racism Case Turns
2NR: DA/Case turns

**Finals: Meadows CN - NIB**
1NC: T Infrastructure, Cap K, Commissions CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR: CP/DA

===Cypress=== 
**Round 1 (LAY ROUND): Damien MM - CCS**
1NC: Inflation DA, LUST Tradeoff DA, Case
2NR: LUST and Case

**Round 3 (LAY ROUND): LNU SS - Kritikal New Orleans**
1NC: T USFG, Fiscal Cliff, Racism Case Turns
2NR: T

**Semis: Damien SQ - CCS**
1NC: T Pipelines, Commissions CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR: DA and Case

**Finals: LNU CH - Kritikal Maglev**
1NC: China CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case
2NR: CP and DA

===Victory Briefs (Team GY)=== 
**Round 1: Honor Ac****ademy VJ - Alaska Ports**
1NC: T Preexsisting, Security K, Commissions CP, Hagel DA, Dedev, Defense on oil
2NR: CP/DA

**Round 3: Notre Dame PS - HSR**
1NC: T Preexsisting, China CP, Hagel DA, Dedev
2NR: T (lol)

**Round 5: Notre Dame LF - Mass Transit**
1NC: T Vehicles, Security K, Commissions CP, Hagel DA, Dedev
2NR: DA/Case

===Golden Desert (Team GY)=== 
**Round 2: CK McClatchy SH - Icebreakers**
1nc: T military, security k, commissions cp, immigration da
2nr: cp/da

**Round 4: Westminster KS - Port Dredging**
1nc: t increase, security k, commissions cp, immigration da, dedev
2nr: cp/da

**Round 5: Juan Diego KW - Mexico entry ports**
1nc: t increase, security k, commissions cp, immigration da
2nr: cp/da

===Stanford (Team GY)=== 
**Round 2: Harker YK - Title XI**
1nc: t investment, commissions cp, immigration da, sec k, case offense
2nr: cp/da

**Round 3: Brophy WS - Kritikal Ableism**
1nc: cap k, framework
2nr: framework

**Round 5: St Vincent MG - Kritikal Airport Security**
1nc: heg k, anonymity pic, framework, case
2nr: heg k

**Doubles: College Prep FP - Mayport**
1nc: t military, baudrillard k (death), bombers cp, commissions cp, immigration, case
2nr: da/case

===Berkeley (Team GY)=== 
**Round 2: Cherry Creek GR - Dredging**
1nc: t increase, imm da, commish cp, sec k, dedev
2nr: cp/da

**Round 3: Hamilton CP - Icebreakers**
1nc: <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">t military, commish, sec k, imm da, russia mapping case turn</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">2nr: immigration/case</span>