[[toc]]
=1AC IHSA (Broken Round 4)= 
==Observation One: Framing== 
No nuke war impacts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin ’84</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Brian, Associate Professor in Science, Technology, and Society at the University of Wollongong, “Extinction Politics,” May, Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter, Number 16, p. 5-6, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html)</span>
Yet //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in spite of the</span>// __widespread <span style="line-height: 24px;">//...//</span>__ about nuclear winter or the politics of promoting beliefs in nuclear extinction

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Major war won’t escalate social evolution</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fettweis 6</span> – National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College, (Chris, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review (2006) 8, 677–697)
However, one need not be convinced about the potential for ideas ...//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">scholars should ask why anyone should believe that it could not</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//

No historical connection between economic collapse and conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson 6</span> – M.A., Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Resident faculty member of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, Senior Research Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford University, and a Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University (Niall, “The Next War of the World”, Foreign Affairs, September-October 2006, May 21st 2010)
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nor can economic crises explain</span>// ...<span style="font-size: 6pt;">ather than the consequences of economic</span>

Heg also doesn't solve anything
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne, 12</span> - Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of California at Berkeley (Christopher, 2012, "The Time It's Real: The End of Unipolarity and the Pax Americana", International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 56, Ebsco, p. 3, KONTOPOULOS)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Following the Cold War’s end, ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it already is withering.</span>//

Discourse shapes how we view our world and how we construct urban space. This is why we prefer a best policy option framework so we can ethically orient ourselves towards future activism and policymaking. If the negative presents a framework based on our discourse in round then we will defend our representations as the best education in round.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oh 5</span> (Reginald C. Oh, assistant professor of law at the Appalachian School of Law, 2005, Cleveland State Law Review, 52 Clev. St. L. Rev. 243, p. 246-248)
If dominant narratives obscures the way power ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">How long have they been there? And how did they get there?c</span>

**Pragmatic action with a heterodoxical approach will always solve best, your methodologies, epistemologies, and ontologies are welcome here- they will augment our morality claims.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ford 94</span> (Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1918-1920)-kpb
This article has attempted to bring several distinct ...//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">democracy share territory with the boundaries of race</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>//


==Observation Two: The Status Quo== 
Racial segregation is the norm in the urban landscapes of the United States. These communities are predominately non-white and working class.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ford</span>, Assistant Professor of Law at Stanford Law School, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span> (June 1994, Richard Thompson, 107 Harvard Law Review 1843, “The Boundaries of Race: Political Geography in Legal Analysis,” LexisNexis)-kpb
It is now passe' to speak of racial segregation. ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;">even in the face of civil rights reform, is not mysterious.</span>

That’s because urban school systems were designed to fail. This institution acts as an auction block for the military and a pipeline to the prison industrial complex.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duncan-Andrade and Morrell 2008</span> (Jeffrey and Ernest, The art of critical pedagogy Possibilities for moving from theory to practice in urban schools. Peter Lang Publishers.p114-115, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ernest Morrell is an associate professor in the Urban Schooling division of the Graduate School of Education and Information Studies (GSE&IS) and Associate Director for Youth Research at the Institute for Democracy, Education, and Access (IDEA) at the University of California at Los Angeles. For more than a decade he has worked with adolescents, drawing on their involvement with popular culture to promote academic literacy development. Morrell is also interested in the applications of critical pedagogy in urban education and working with teens as critical researchers. Morrell is the author of three books, Linking Literacy and Popular Culture: Finding Connections for Lifelong Learning (Christopher-Gordon) and Becoming Critical Researchers: Literacy and Empowerment for Urban Youth (Peter Lang), and Critical Literacy and Urban Youth: Pedagogies of Access, Dissent, and Liberation (Routledge) due out in Fall 2007. In addition to these books, Morrell has published numerous peer-reviewed journal articles, book chapters, encyclopedia entries, and national and international conference presentations Morrell’s research has been sponsored and awarded on several occasions including receiving the outstanding dissertation award from UC Berkeley’s Graduate School of Education and being awarded a postdoctoral research grant from the American Educational Research Association (AERA). Morrell has been invited to give numerous keynote addresses on his work on popular culture and literacy achievement for urban adolescents to postsecondary institutions such as the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, DePaul University, Barnard University, Simmons University, Columbia University, and New York University; research organizations such as the National Council of Teachers of English Assembly for Research, the National Reading Conference, the Black Education Alliance of Massachusetts, the Michigan Reading Association, and the Michigan Council of teachers of English, private foundations such as the HOPE Foundation, the Rosalinde and Arthur Gilbert Foundation; and local school districts and schools throughout the nation, including work with Boston Public School teachers through the Boston Plan for Excellence in Education. Morrell is currently involved in a research project examining the applications of critical pedagogy in several classrooms across Los Angeles. He is also involved in a summer seminar where urban teens conduct research project in local neighborhoods and schools.Morrell previously taught English for six years at Oakland High school in Northern California where he was nominated five times for "Who's Who Among America's High School Teachers" and was recognized by the Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Community Organizations, US Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and the California State Senate for his service to the Oakland Public Schools. Morrell received his doctorate in Language, Literacy, and Culture from the University of California at Berkeley.)kpb</span>
The fact that opportunity ...//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> position in the labor force and society.</span>//

Urban schools funnel youth in to the prison industrial complex. There are better schools within a bus ride's distance.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fuentes, 04’</span> (<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Annette Fuentes, Adjunct Professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, April 8, 2004, online: [[http://www.blackcommentator.com/85/85_guest_schoolhouse.html]])-kpb</span>
Stratford High sure isn’t like Columbine. ...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> expected of them. </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The system works.</span>//

==Observation Three: Violence== 
Urban schools are a structural violence, that locks non-white students in to cycles of poverty and then blames them for it
Jessica <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ruglis 2009</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">"</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">DEATH OF A DROPOUT: (RE)THEORIZING SCHOOL DROPOUT AND SCHOOLING AS A SOCIAL DETERMINANT OF HEALTH" Dissertation to the Graduate Faculty in Urban Education. The City University of New York</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Ruglis received her PhD in Urban Education from the Graduate Center of The City University of New York in May 2009. A former teacher, she also holds an MPH in Urban Public Health/Community Health Education from Hunter College, a Masters of Arts in Teaching in Secondary Science Education from Union College, and BS in Human Biology from University at Albany. Jessica's dissertation is a mixed method, youth participatory action research project that investigates the connections between schooling, education and health; and which culminates in positing schooling as a social determinant of health. Jessica's work also (re)theorizes school dropout and introduces a new critical theory of school non-completion. Her research experience includes community based participatory research projects that study corporate disease promotion practices; the intersections between the education, health, and criminal justice systems in New York City; and the role of a school based health center in academic achievement and community health. With an interest in policy, Jessica has served as a legal consultant for State Supreme court cases on issues of educational inequity and consequences of diploma denial due to implementation of high stakes exit exams, as well as for a New York City court case dealing with child welfare. Jessica is a Kellogg Health Scholar at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, MD.)-kpb</span>
Regardless of which category a youth denied a diploma fits into__, <span style="line-height: 24px;">//...//</span>__ntroduce accounts of the thickness of personal responsibility.

The destruction of urban education is an active process that seeks to render the victims of structural violence invisible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux, 06</span> (Henry A. Giroux. Prof. English & Cultural Studies, McMaster U., Canada; Chapter 1: Katrina and the Biopolitics of Disposability, Stormy Weather]KS p21-2
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Just as crime in the existing order becomes a cultural attribute ...by the destruction, politics, and death that followed Hurricane Katrina.58]p.22</span>

This destruction of public space, means the end of politics and the end of policy debate. The only school reform that can solve is equal access.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux,</span> Henry 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>. //Against the Terror of Neoliberalism:politics beyond the age of greed.// Boulder: Paradigm Publishers.(pg 21-22)-kpb
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A second feature connecting the old fascism ...</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">become the template for organizing the rest of society.</span>//


This unending war – invisible even to those it targets – is worse than nuclear war. Their impact scenarios are attempts by the system to keep the real war hidden and serve to intensify structural violence.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abu-Jamal, 98’ </span>(Mumia Abu-Jamal, Political Prisoner, Prison Writer, Activist, 9-19-98, “A Quiet and Deadly Violence”, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]])
It has often been observed <span style="font-size: 11pt;">that America is a truly ...</span> systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.

Institutional racism is the root cause of violence, especially that which targets minority identities.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BARDNT 1991</span>(Director of Crossroads, a non profit OrganizationJoseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism:The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33)
**__Racism can be expressed with an iron fist or ...__** power is exercised for us by others in ways that are to our benefit.

Racism is the root cause of state violence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mendieta 02</span>(Eduardo Mendieta, Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Stony Brook, April 25, 2002, online: [[http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]], accessed August 29, 2006)
I have thus far discussed Foucault’s triangulation between the discourses ... as a continuum of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.


Rejecting every instance of racism is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BARDNT, 91</span>(Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization 1991Joseph-ordained minister; “Dismantling Racism:The Continuing Challengeto White America; p.155-156)
**__To study racism is to study walls....__** we dare not allow it to continue.

==Plan Text== 
Thus the Plan: The United States Supreme Court should accept a writ of certiorari on a relevant test case in order to overturn the precedent set by Milliken v. Bradley 418 U.S. 717 (1974).

==Observation Four: Solvency== 
Overruling Milliken is the pre-requisite to protection under the fourteenth amendment's equal protection clause, there is an ethical obligation to reject this legally mandated racism which blurs the line between de facto and de jure. An overturning would mandate that students be transported to the school of their choice
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rahdert 04</span> (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps the most disturbing feature of this situation is that it has become a widely accepted norm, a fact of American life that most people, most politicians, and ...</span>then we must look elsewhere in the educational system.




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Overturning Milliken is a pre-requisite to any solvency that won't be rolled back by current institutional racism</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rahdert 04</span> (Mark C. Rahdert, Professor of Law, Temple UHniversity Beasley School of Law, Spring 2004, Temple Political & Civil Rights Review, 13 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 785, p. 800-801)

Looking back, we can clearly see that //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Milliken placed an </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">insurmountable</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> forbidden, at least as a result of any judicial decree.</span>//

The plan already has //stare decisis//
Marshall 74 Justice Thurgood Marshall in the dissenting opinion of Milliken in 74
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I cannot subscribe to this emasculation of our ...</span>//the answer to de jure segregation is the greatest possible degree of ac-tual desegregation.

Deontology is the preferred ethical code for civil rights policymaking
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zamir and Medina, 08’</span> (Eyal and Barak, Zamir-- LL.B and Dr.Jur from Hebrew University of Jerusalem, visiting researcher at Harvard, Global Research Fellow at New York University School of Law; Medina—Ph.D. In economics from Hebrew University of Jerusalem, LL.M in economics, Associate Professor of Law at Hebrew University of Jerusalem; April, California Law Review: “Law, Morality, and Economics: Integrating Moral Constraints with Economic Analysis of Law”, Lexis)
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Turning to </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the role of the state</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> as a ...</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">for legal policymaking, as well as for legal scholarship.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Overturning Arthur V. Nyquist will set a legal precedent that liability is on the states that allow segregation when busing remedies exist</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US V Yonkers 96</span> United States V. Yonkers United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit. 12/23/96 112 Ed. Law Rep. 601-kpb
Notwithstanding the above findings//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, the district court,</span>//__<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> "</span>__with reluctance," ...affirmative support of school segregation in Yonkers, from a legal standpoint....

=1AC NFL= 
We read the sex trafficking and drug trafficking (Warming Impact) advantages which can be found on Theo and Jonass's wiki

=1AC Cal= 
Same as before except we replaced the PPIC cards with

MMPDS technology solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sloane 10/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Stanton D. Sloane, bachelor’s degree in Professional Studies from Barry University, a master’s degree in Human Resources Management from Pepperdine University, and a Doctor of Management degree from the Weatherhead Business School at Case Western Reserve University, President and Chief Executive Officer of Decision Sciences, Earlier, he was President of Lockheed Martin’s Management/Data Systems, “Cargo Security International: Dr. Stanton D. Sloane of Decision Sciences looks at how passive detection systems can play their part in protecting the global supply chain”, [[http://www.decisionsciencescorp.com/cargo-security-international-dr-stanton-d-sloane-of-decision-sciences-looks-at-how-passive-detection-systems-can-play-their-part-in-protecting-the-global-supply-chain/]], 10/11/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In our global, just-in-time economy, </span>...<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and former Governor of Pennsylvania.</span>
=1AC Blake= 
==RD 4== 
**Cards Moved**
Hurst evidence (studies prove attack ports) moved up above Ayson (nuke retal)

**Cards Removed**
Clark evidence (perception of terror kills econ)
Berneura evidence (growth solves war)
Frantz evidence (see rd 1 below- cargo scan now fails)

**Cards Added**
Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts (between Ephron and Bunn)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • ...</span> //by the end of 2013.”//

Economic growth is vital to effectively confront __every global problem__—//additional resources// are needed. (replaced Berneura)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silk 93</span> — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the //New York Times//, 1993 (“Dangers of Slow Growth,” //Foreign Affairs//, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like the Great Depression, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ...and </span>open<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> economies and </span>societies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==RD 2== 
Same as Dowling/OValley except this card at the end of solvency

SQuo cargo operations aren’t sophisticated enough
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz 7/15</span> (Douglas, Washington Post National Security Editor and Deputy Staff Director and Chief Investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Port Security: U.S. Fails to meet Deadline for Scanning of Cargo Containers”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The administration’s failure to ... of personal computers from Japan.</span>
=1AC Dowling= 
Same as OValley

=1AC Ohio Valley= 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text</span>== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port security.

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Terrorism</span>== 

Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress to continue ... should remain at the federal level.</span>

Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)</span>
As Mike Shuster said a ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of this highly enriched uranium. </span>

Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Maerli 2k</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A striking parallel can be ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">lead to a nuclear explosive.</span>

Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bodies of Ambassador Christopher ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> it will be a miracle.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And – Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bunn</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">(Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Complacency about the threat is ... nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>

Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are ...</span> and the Congressional Research Service.

Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 (</span>Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])
The Department of Homeland Security ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’ </span>

Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
A terrorist nuclear attack, and ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurst 8</span>(Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to Liquefied Natural Gas: Fact or Fiction?”, [[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]], 2/8)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> run ...</span> crippling the U.S. economy.

Bioterrorism is incredibly easy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 9-7</span>(Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capabilities for producing bioterrorist ... in an era of megaterror.</span>

Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span>(Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general for the ...</span> will be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)

That causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the weapons of ... HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

A port attack shuts down naval power
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Watts 5 </span>**[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Connecting the continental United States ...</span> learn from the experience?

Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Navy has considerable ... </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">already overburdened airlift resources. </span>

Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In light of global economic..</span> be at a “tipping point.”

Specifically deters Iran
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klare 12</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Michael T., Five college professor of Peace and World Security studies, Defense correspondent at //The Nation// magazine, on the Board of Directors of Human Rights Watch, “America’s maritime power”, [[http://mondediplo.com/2012/03/06uspacific]], 3/2/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">According to Obama and Panetta, ...</span> China and other rising powers.

Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons sparks a massive arms race
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell 3/2</span>(George, retired senator of 15 years, senate majority leader for 6 years, currently serves as co-chair of the Housing Commission at the Bipartisan Policy Center, “Former Sen. Mitchell: Nuclear Iran Would Ignite Worldwide Arms Race”, [[http://americannewsreport.com/former-sen-mitchell-nuclear-iran-would-ignite-worldwide-arms-race-8813376.html]], 3/2/12)
Few U.S. Senators in recent ... people all <span style="font-size: 12pt;">around the world.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That causes global nuclear war and extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Primakov 9</span>(Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”, 9/08)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Middle East conflict is ...</span> rule out such a possibility.


==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is the Economy</span>== 
Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy. Their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just recession induced dips
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span>(Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)
Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that make up international trade.</span>

Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. (</span>CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">in this new... part of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

Collaspe spills over globally resulting in worldwide economic gridlock
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010</span> (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)

Scenario Three: Direct Attack on ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> quickly run out of food.</span>

Economic decline causes war and miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is how periods ... considered ancillary to those views.</span>

Growth and unemployment at an all time low
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 8/29</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span>New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Government data released Wednesday ... which is at 8.3 percent</span>

Economic growth is key to prevent conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Previous research has shown that ...supported by the existing literature. </span>


New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism measures</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> can ...for the purpose of illustration.</span>

Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investorand creditor ... round of negative feedback effects.</span>


The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritelli 5</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ships are the primary mode ... process for U.S. importers.</span>

U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">During the past 30 years, ... tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>


== == 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>== 

Visualization and imaging technology solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As documentation cannot be ...emissions, which are then detected. </span>

New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In-Port Imaging. Non-intrusive ... ambitious start-ups and agile retreads. 50 </span>


Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox News 8/1</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">strikes onAl Qaeda have ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the threat of greater violence.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal level coordination key to successful security</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrald 05</span>** [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The threat is real. Terrorist ... dysfunctional and costly turf battles.</span>

Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">John </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">What Priority Should Port Security ... ports and other potential targets. </span>