[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**In order to value something, you must also value what makes that valuation possible**
**Uyl & Rasmussen 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas Den Uyl is a Professor of Philosophy at Bellarmine College Douglas Rasmussen is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, “Reading Nozick” p. 245</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In so far as one…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">which makes valuation possible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="cite">Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible</span>
<span class="cite">Seeley 86</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In moral reasoning prediction of…under any</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sane </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">moral code</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Thus the standard is mitigating existential risk**

**Prefer this standard:**

**Normative uncertainty—**
a. **Humanity has a minimal understanding of ethics—there is a __high likelihood__ that we can advance in our moral understanding**
**Parfit 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press, 1986, ISBN-13: 9780198249085</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">154. How Both Human History…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">irrational to have high hopes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

b. **This means extinction is a side constraint on __any ethical theory__**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our present understanding of axiology…must prevent any existential catastrophe</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Agent specificity**—
a. **A governments only obligation is to protect its citizens from harm**
**Keenan 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> George F. Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Winter 1985/1986, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, let us recognize that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on the basis of them</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

b. **Governments can only base their decisions off calculations of harm**
**Gooden 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert, philsopher at the Research School of the Social Sciences, Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy. P. 62-63</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consider, first, the argument from…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">each alternative possible general rules</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**My advocacy is that the USFG should provide equal constitutional due process protections to both citizens and non-citizens accused of terrorism**

**Detainment policies are eroding Obama’s international image**
**Parmara 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Inderjeet Parmara is a Professor of Government at the School of Social Sciences of the University of Manchester and a principal investigator in the AHRC Obama Research Network and Chair of the British International Studies Association, “American power and identities in the age of Obama” International Politics, Vol. 48: 153–163, 2011, doi:10.1057/ip.2011.10 http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v48/n2/full/ip201110a.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most of the articles in</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…which they claim to stand</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joyner, 2009).</span>

**Absence of equal due process undermines US credibility and international support for the military**
**Radack 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jesselyn A. Radack, J.D. from Yale Law School, is Executive Director of the Coalition for Civil Rights and Democratic Liberties, “You Say Defendant, I say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process” Review of Law and Social Change, Vol. 29:525, 2005</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The revolving door between the…danger of similar treatment later</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”135 </span>

**Perception is key---denial of due process is destroying our perceived legitimacy and causing others to resist US primacy**
**Walt, Prof. of IR @ Harvard, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen M. Walt is Academic Dean and Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, “Taming American Power” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 84, No. 5, September-October, 2005, p. 105-120, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031709]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Attacking U.S. legitimacy is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">even more</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**International support is critical to maintaining military supremacy**
**Nash, Sr. Fellow @ CFR, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> William L. Nash is the General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations and was a fellow and visiting lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University, and a military consultant to ABC News, “The ICC and the Deployment of U.S. Armed Forces” in “The United States and the International Criminal Court” Ed. Sarah Sewall and Carl Kaysen, Published by Rowman & Littlefield, 2000 http://www.amacad.org/publications/icc9.aspx</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Judging from recent experiences, the…U.S. position toward the ICC.</span>

**US decline causes extinction---collapse of democracy, free trade and great power conflict**
**Kagan, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">this sounds…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American order came into being. </span>

**Perceived legitimacy is the key internal link to preventing terrorism** 
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy of action is a…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the war against terrorism.</span>

**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism**
**Byman 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2, March - April 2006, p. 95-111 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**Civilian courts are empirically more effective at getting intelligence from terrorists---detentions without due process eliminates the incentive to cooperate**
**Gude 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ken Gude is the Chief of Staff and Vice President at the Center for American Progress, where he works closely with CAP President Neera Tanden to communicate strategic decisions and coordinate policy development and also leads several of the organization’s policy initiatives and projects, “Criminal Courts Are Tougher on Terrorists than Military Detention” Center for American Progress, January 20, 2010, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/security/news/2010/01/20/7207/criminal-courts-are-tougher-on-terrorists-than-military-detention/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access to lawyers doesn’t restrict…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">their chances of being released</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Negative== 
===Politics=== 
**Florida and Pennsylvania key and Obama winning in both**
**Silver, September 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nate Silver, September 12, 2012 “Florida a True Must-Win for Romney” The New York Times, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/12/sept-11-florida-a-true-must-win-for-romney/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Florida has a well-established…</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">math will become more important.</span>__</span>

**The aff causes a Romney win**
**Goldsmith, Prof. of Law @ Harvard, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the Bush administration, is a Professor at Harvard Law School and a member of the Hoover Institution task force on national security and law, “Obama’s weak spots on counterterrorism are open to Romney” The Washington Post, April 26, 2012, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-weak-spots-on-counterterrorism-are-open-to-romney/2012/04/26/gIQAJ42zjT_story.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the general-election campaign…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">too solicitous toward Guantanamo detainees</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Terrorism issues are key**
**Pace 9/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Julie Pace is a writer for Associated Press, “For once, 9/11 attacks play small role in election” U.S. News, September 10, 2012, http://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2012/09/10/for-once-911-attacks-play-small-role-in-election?vwo=501cd</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the strong economic focus…security-focused events there, too.</span>

**Iran strikes**
**Dilek 11** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">9/20/11 Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">[[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">All Republican Candidates Favor War...up with the unending wars.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hirsch 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jorge Hirsch is a Professor @ UC San Diego “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21, 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration has put…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">arth's population many times over. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
===NSC CP=== 
**Text: the USFG should create a specialized Article III National Security Court to provide for a means of detention and trial of suspected non-citizen terrorists**

**Normal courts are insufficient for terrorism trials**
**Powers, Prof. of Constitutional Law @ Minnesota, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas F. Powers is a Prof. of Constitutional Law @ University of Minnesota Duluth, “Due Process For Terrorists?” CBS News, September 22, 2009, http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-215_162-592130.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ordinary criminal courts are not…are clearly out of place</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**It’s competitive and provides a sufficient standard of protection for terrorism suspects**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The NSC statute would provide…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military Commission Rule of Evidence 901. 134 </span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]