[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE NECESSARY TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT FOR THE JOB ACCESS AND REVERSE COMMUTE ACT.</span>**

**Contention 1 is Inherency**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Despite pledges to double the Federal Jobs Access and Reverse Commute program, or JARC, Congress cut funding and the program is stalled</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Wogan, July 23, 2012 [J.B. WOGAN, Politifact.com Edition, Tampa Bay Times, p.lexis (access 8/17/12) JB Wogan has a master's degree in public policy from Johns Hopkins University.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">As a candidate, Barack Obama… rate this a Promise Broken.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Contention 2 is the harms.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">First off is pollution.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lack of infrastructure dooms 70,000 people, mostly poor and minority, to death from air pollution</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bullard,</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> **Dean of** </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> Public Affairs at</span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> **T**exas **S**outhern **U**niversity, **2011** [Robert, access8/17/12, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Air pollution claims 70,000 lives…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a life and death matter. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AND JARC key to reversing this pollution which harms millions of low income, minority communities</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hoang, Urban Policy @ Occidental College, 2005 [</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Huong Hoang, Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project April 2005, The Route to Transportation Equity:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">This is the html version of the file </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://departments.oxy.edu/uepi/uep/live/studentwork/05comps/hoang.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Public Health and Environmental Effects…</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and fairness at their foundations.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Second is Social Exclusion.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">White affluent communities are disproportionately favored economically and socially over low-income minorities.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hoang, </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">Urban Policy @ Occidental College</span>****<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, 2005 [</span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">Huong Hoang, Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project April 2005, __The Route to Transportation Equity:__</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12px;">A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems, </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">This is the html version of the file </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://departments.oxy.edu/uepi/uep/live/studentwork/05comps/hoang.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I undertook this study of…</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> creating and sustaining healthy communities.</span>

**Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation**
**Fan 12** Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ
Planners, policy makers, and the public…<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> the automobile</span> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998).

**AND We have an obligation to promote an end to this exclusion. Treating poor communities of color as expendable excess risks the worst forms of state violence based upon racism.**
**Duarte– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná,** Curitiba, Brazil. **2005** [<span style="font-size: 12px;">André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as…</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>

**Exclusion outweighs every impact – its the precondition to ethical political decision making. Even if we only win ONE BILLIONTH of our own case, you have an obligation to vote Affirmative.**
**MEMMI****2000 –**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The struggle against racism will… but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Third is the poverty,</span>**

**JARC key to job access, essential to solving poverty.**
**TMACC 12**<span style="font-size: 12px;">[</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF CHESTER COUNTY ; transporttion company in Chester County, Penn. It is a non- profit established by the Pen. DOT. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.tmacc.org/about/who-we-do/|http://www.tmacc.org/about/who-we-do]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">/</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">]</span>
<span style="color: #14120c; font-family: Times;">Improving access to jobs is…</span><span style="color: #14120c; font-family: Times; font-size: 14.6667px;"> are outlined in this packet.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND the U.S. economy is key to the global economy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Werner 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Erica. November 10. Erica Werner is a reporter for the Associated Press. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/10/obama-strong-us-economy-key-global-recovery/]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">President Obama said </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> president said in the letter.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND global economic growth solves poverty.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Priest 5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[George L. ‘Reducing Global Poverty – Theory, Practice, and Reform.’ SELA 2005 Panel 5: Poverty and the International Order. Priest is the Edward J. Phelps Professor of Law and Economics and Kauffman Distinguished Research Scholar in Law, Economics, and Entrepreneurship at Yale Law School. http://www.law.yale.edu/documents/pdf/Reducing_Global_Poverty.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Over the history of the… among other beneficial human effects. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND poverty causes violence that is worse than a perpetual nuclear war. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abu-Jamal</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **98** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[Mumia. Sept. 19. Incarcerated social activist and author who has written books and articles since being placed on death row. http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Gandhi said] The deadliest form…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> the kids fight each other. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND the world has a moral obligation to solve poverty.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Al-Khalifa 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[Sheika Haya Rashed. December 10. ‘Message of the President of the United Nations General Assembly.’ United Nations. Al-Khalifa is President of the United Nations General Assembly. http://www.un.org/events/humanrights/2006/ga.shtml]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">This year we commemorate Human…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> moral duty to take action.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 21.3333px;">Contention 3 is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Federal investment is critical to linking low income, minority communities to access to transportation and financial opportunity – our solvency is empirical and 100% effective</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">American Public Transportation Association, 2007 [</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">access 8/17/12, Date Added 5/24/2007, Date Edited 5/24/2007, </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[[http://www.apta.com/passengertransport/Documents/archive_3832.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Intercity Transit's Village Vans, a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">…</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> a stronger-knit, more effective community."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AND Increasing Federal funding is critical to equal access to economic opportunity and the transition to environmentally sustainable, just policies – studies prove JARC is a proven method</span>**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hoang, Urban Policy @ Occidental College, 2005 [</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Huong Hoang, Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project April 2005, The Route to Transportation Equity:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">This is the html version of the file </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://departments.oxy.edu/uepi/uep/live/studentwork/05comps/hoang.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12px;">.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This report is an evaluation…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> needs of the transit-dependent.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]