[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=1AC NIB Colleyville= 

==1AC Economic Growth== 

====It will falter now – the aff’s measures are key to reset the course==== 
**Zakaria 1/3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Editor of Newsweek, BA from Yale, PhD in pol sci, Harvard. He serves on the board of Yale University, The Council on Foreign Relations, The Trilateral Commission, and Shakespeare and Company. Named "one of the 21 most important people of the 21st Century" (Jan 3 2012, Fareed, "What~’s missing from the cliff debate: Growth," [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/fareed-zakaria-growth-plan-missing-from-cliff-deal/2013/01/03/a1f626ea-55bd-11e2-8b9e-dd8773594efc_story.html-http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/fareed-zakaria-growth-plan-missing-from-cliff-deal/2013/01/03/a1f626ea-55bd-11e2-8b9e-dd8773594efc_story.html]], mrs)</span>

The deal to avoid the "fiscal cliff" is a small victory for sanity
AND
, because eventually the system starts breaking down and has to be fixed.


====The plan makes growth sustainable==== 
**Riley 9/6—Staff writer for CNN** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, Obama~’s stimulus gambit, 2012, [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/06/news/economy/obama_stimulus_options/?cnn=yes-http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/06/news/economy/obama_stimulus_options/?cnn=yes]], chm)</span>

NEW YORK (CNNMoney) — Now is the time for action.¶ That~’s the
AND
Eventually, interest paid on the loans would make the bank self sufficient.


====The plan is key to revitalize the economy==== 
**DeLauro and Rohatyn 12/19** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– US Representative, member of House Appropriations Committee and chairman of New York~’s Municipal Assistance Corporation, co-chair of the NY Works Task Force/NYS 2100 Commission (December 19 2012, Rosa and Felix, Roll Call, "DeLauro and Rohatyn: Innovative Infrastructure Finance Needed Post-Sandy," [[http://www.rollcall.com/news/delauro_and_rohatyn_innovative_infrastructure_finance_needed_post_sandy-220115-1.html-http://www.rollcall.com/news/delauro_and_rohatyn_innovative_infrastructure_finance_needed_post_sandy-220115-1.html]], mrs)</span>

As we recover from Hurricane Sandy, leadership is required from all levels of government
AND
but it must be done if we are to build a stronger America.

We solve for 3 reasons.


====A. Poor transportation infrastructure hamstrings American growth==== 
**Donohue, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> —- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, "The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure," Factiva, JMP)</span>

As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here~’s an appeal from the US Chamber of
AND
first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.


====B. the plan resolves the demand shortage==== 
**Skidelsky %26 Martin, 11** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">—- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, "For a National Investment Bank," [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/-http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)</span>

President Obama is in a bind. He knows that the economic recovery is fragile
AND
into account the benefits that such projects would bring to the broader economy.


====C. The NIB accesses a critical multiplier effect==== 
**Tyson, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> —- professor at the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley (6/3/2011, Laura D~’Andrea Tyson, NYT Blogs, "The Virtues of Investing in Transportation; Economix," Factiva, JMP)</span>

Years of underinvesting in the nation~’s transportation infrastructure are apparent in congested roads, freight
AND
would select projects based on transparent cost-benefit analysis by independent experts.


====US economic decline increases the risk of war==== 
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 ("Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises," Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


====Failure to maintain US growth will collapse hegemony and cause great power conflict==== 
**Khalilzad 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 ("The Economy and National Security," National Review, February 8</span>^^th^^<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)</span>

¶ Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat
AND
, leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity

==1AC P3 Space== 

Advantage 2 is Public Private Partnerships


====Support for EXPANDED P3s is high, but lack the necessary capacity – a national infrastructure bank serves as a critical model==== 
**Likosky et al 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Likosky, Michael. Josh Ishimatsu. Joyce Miller. "RETHINKING 21ST - CENTURY GOVERNMENT: PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND THE NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BANK". June, 2011. http://www.ssrc.org/workspace/images/crm/new_publication_3/%7B2c5cfcc9-6b9e-e011-bd4e-001cc477ec84%7D.pdf)</span>

Support for partnerships goes deep into the benches of both parties. Senator orrin hatch
AND
bank~’s governance should incorporate the participation of board members recommended by both parties.


====P3s key to lowering the cost of space exploration – they fill in gaps in government budgets==== 
**Taylor 8**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Tom, Lunar Transportation Systems, Vice president and senior member, "Outreach Development Public Private Partnership for Space Exploration", [[http://tinyurl.com/Outreach-Development-Public-Pr-http://tinyurl.com/Outreach-Development-Public-Pr]]) </span>

Continuing innovation and technology development is one way a global leader nation defines itself.
AND
privately to remain in operation after NASA moves on to explore the universe.


====Low cost orbital access solves extinction==== 
**Collins and Autino 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - * Life %26 Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, "What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace," Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been
AND
such a costly delay, will ameliorate many problems in the world today.


====Technology and cost barriers are insubstantial==== 
**Zubrin 11** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">6/28/2011 – president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics, master~’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics and a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering ("The Case For Mars: The plan to settle the red planet and why we must", Revised June 28, 2011, pg.1-2 )//DT</span>

Some have said that a human mission to Mars is a venture for the far
AND
consumables can be pro­duced on Mars instead, the story changes, radically.

==1AC Plan== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure capital expenditures in the United States through a national infrastructure bank.

==1AC Solvency== 


====The status quo is insufficient—improving our transportation infrastructure is key==== 
**Miller, Costa and Cooper 9/5**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team, Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant in Economic Policy, and Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress. (Donna, Kristina, and Keith, "Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness", http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2012/09/05/36409/creating-a-national-infrastructure-bank-and-infrastructure-planning-council/ , chm)</span>

Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy. Without highways,
AND
generations, while immediately helping the American economy get back on its feet.


====Status quo investment also fails—the plan is key—here is a description of our bank==== 
**Staley, PhD, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics, was director of urban growth and land-use policy for Reason Foundation where he helped establish its urban policy program in 1997. Staley received his B.A. in Economics and Public Policy from Colby College, M.S. in Social and Applied Economics from Wright State University, and Ph.D. in Public Administration, with concentrations in urban planning and public finance from Ohio State University. (Samuel, A National Infrastructure Bank Can Provide Important Benefits If Mission and Scope Are Defined Narrowly", [[http://reason.org/news/show/infrastructure-bank-testimony-http://reason.org/news/show/infrastructure-bank-testimony]], chm)</span>

We are at a crossroads on how to fund long-term investments in the
AND
grants, and use the proceeds from these loans to underwrite capital projects.


====Federal action is critical to stimulate the economy and overcome problems that devastate status quo infrastructure projects — action now is key==== 
**McConaghy %26 Kessler, 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> —- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, "A National Infrastructure Bank," [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf-http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)</span>

America~’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods
AND
once-in-a-lifetime window to make enduring infrastructure investments.


====Our mechanism is good==== 
**Staley, PhD, 10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics, was director of urban growth and land-use policy for Reason Foundation where he helped establish its urban policy program in 1997. Staley received his B.A. in Economics and Public Policy from Colby College, M.S. in Social and Applied Economics from Wright State University, and Ph.D. in Public Administration, with concentrations in urban planning and public finance from Ohio State University. (Samuel, A National Infrastructure Bank Can Provide Important Benefits If Mission and Scope Are Defined Narrowly", [[http://reason.org/news/show/infrastructure-bank-testimony-http://reason.org/news/show/infrastructure-bank-testimony]], chm)</span>

Potential Benefits of an Infrastructure Bank¶ A well structured infrastructure bank could have several
AND
raising revenue compared to general taxes (which also often have sunset provisions).

==1AC P3 Disease== 


====Support for EXPANDED P3s is high, but lack the necessary capacity – a national infrastructure bank serves as a critical model==== 
**Likosky et al 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Likosky, Michael. Josh Ishimatsu. Joyce Miller. "RETHINKING 21ST - CENTURY GOVERNMENT: PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND THE NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BANK". June, 2011. http://www.ssrc.org/workspace/images/crm/new_publication_3/%7B2c5cfcc9-6b9e-e011-bd4e-001cc477ec84%7D.pdf)</span>

Support for partnerships goes deep into the benches of both parties. Senator orrin hatch
AND
bank~’s governance should incorporate the participation of board members recommended by both parties.


====PPP~’s in the pharmaceutical sector are key to help speed creation of innovative drugs==== 
**Goldman et al. ~’13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michel Goldman, Executive Director of the Innovative Medicines Initiative. Carolyn Compton, President and CEO of the Critical Path Institute. Barbara Mittleman, Director of the Program on Public-Private Partnerships of the NIH, Public-private partnerships as driving forces in the quest for innovative medicines, 15 January 2013, [[http://www.clintransmed.com/content/pdf/2001-1326-2-2.pdf-http://www.clintransmed.com/content/pdf/2001-1326-2-2.pdf]], JZG)</span>

There are several causes of the insufficient productivity of the current drug development ¶ process
AND
enterprise and used by 3 ¶ pharmaceutical firms developing anti-diabetic medicines.


====Pharmaceutical industry is in decline, Partnerships key to revive it.==== 
**Müller ~’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Müller S, Weigelt J., Open-access public-private partnerships to enable drug discovery—new approaches., 2010 Mar;13, [[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20191434~~%23-http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20191434]], JZG)</span>

The productivity of the pharmaceutical industry, as assessed by the number of NMEs produced
AND
understanding of biological processes and a decrease in the attrition of clinical programs.


====Superbugs cause extinction.==== 
**Lallanilla ~’13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc Lallanilla, Life~’s Little Mysteries Assistant Editor, The Rise of Superbugs Called ~’Apocalyptic Scenario~’, January 26, 13 [[http://news.yahoo.com/rise-superbugs-called-apocalyptic-scenario-162449696.html-http://news.yahoo.com/rise-superbugs-called-apocalyptic-scenario-162449696.html]], JZG)</span>

A prominent British health official has declared the rise of antibiotic-resistant superbugs so
AND
since it could result in a "catastrophic drop in quality of life."

====Disease spread will cause extinction.==== 
Steinbruner 98 Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution ~~[John D., "Biological weapons: A plague upon all houses," Foreign Policy, Dec 22~~]
Its a considerable comfort and undoubtedly a key to our survival that, so far
AND
health, but a fundamental security problem for the species as a whole.

=Negative= 

==Colleyville Heritage (Feb, 1-2)== 

====Rd. 2 vs. Port Dredging==== 
1NC: T, Immigration Reform, Free Market CP, Case
2NR: Free Market, Case

====Rd. 4 vs. Mississippi River==== 
1NC: <span style="line-height: 1.5;">T, Immigration Reform, Free Market CP, Case</span>
2NR: Immigration, Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]