= = 
[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although we made the speeches, we feel that we do not own the discussions. We encourage teams to read similar strategies and prep against them to reduce the invisibility of structural violence in our debate community.</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Stanford</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 1: Down the Rabbit Hole</span>=== 

**First we present Alice in Wonderland as we know it:**

**Alice was feeling bored while sitting on the riverbank with her sister when she noticed a talking rabbit with a pocket watch. She then followed it down a rabbit hole when suddenly she fell a long way to a curious hall with many locked doors of all sizes. She found a small key to a door too small for her to fit through, but past it she saw an attractive garden.**

**Here we’ll stop and come back to this year’s resolution: Henry and I invite you to engage in our literary fantasy by imagining that the United States federal government substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.**

**Here’s another version of Alice in Wonderland based on a utopian vision of our world:**

**This time, Alice was sitting on the sidewalk of a street in New York when she saw a white rabbit go down a rabbit hole. She fell down the rabbit hole and like before, came to a hallway with a locked door at the end. When she opened it, she didn’t see a beautiful garden but rather her home city of New York, except that it was much different.**

**For one, the homeless people on the streets were gone and the streets were immaculate. The disabled now could get to work as normally as others using mass transit, minority races weren’t discriminated against in airports and other public facilities, and gays could be seen in public using transportation without the scorn of the straights. She wondered what it would be like to live in a world like this.**

**Everyone would love to live in the wonderland described above where everything is perfect but we’ll illuminate what’s really happening in the world outside our insulated academic debates. To put this into perspective, we offer a narrative about people who don’t have access to transportation infrastructure.**
**Bensinger 11** [Ken, LA Times, “A hard road for the poor in need of cars.” November 3]
__Told she'd be fired if it happened again, Twombly put down $4,000 — all her savings — on a 9-year-old Chrysler Sebring with 95,000 miles. The dealership lent her the $2,600 balance at a steep 18% interest rate. A few months later, the Sebring broke down and she got into a dispute with the dealer over who should pay for repairs. Twombly quit making loan payments, and Dig's Wheels of Escondido, Calif., repossessed the car. She again struggled to get to work on time and was fired. That set off a chain of events that left the 38-year-old single mother and her two children homeless for six weeks. "I don't know what I'm going to do," said Twombly, who is still out of work. "I lost my job because I lost my car."__

**This brings us to the issue of structural violence: Dr. James Giligan defines structural violence as “the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively lower death rates experienced by those who are above them.” For example, people in poverty don’t have equal access to jobs, education, health care, or transportation infrastructure.**

**The truth is, not everyone has an expensive car to be able to get to work or take kids to school. Current debate practices gloss over these issues because our distanced mindset makes structural violence invisible – we think that “this is just the way things are”**
**Opotow 01** [Susan. Associate Editor of Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology and Past President of the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues. “Chapter 8: Social Injustice”]
Moral exclusion...and should be illegal”).

**Wonderland will never come and is just a figment of our imagination. In the real world, structural violence is a form of ongoing and growing genocide – we need to focus on discontinuing its invisibility.**
**Gilligan 96** [James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes”, p. 191-196]
The deadliest ...as cause to effect.

**Henry and I want to take this opportunity to talk about people who are usually excluded from policy debates – the people affected by structural violence. The current society constructs a distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of “us” or “them.” This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing them from ourselves, contributing to the systemic violence in the status-quo and never getting closer to the wonderland depicted above.**

**Note that our advocacy isn’t to fiat a specific plan and feel good that we stood for the minority group. We want to retain our own individual agency and do everything we can to change the violent norms of the status quo within the debate sphere. Our 1AC is shaped by the narrative we read above and thus the role of the ballot is to endorse the best form of political discussion that lets us transition into a debate community with less structural violence and with more personal advocacy.**

**We have 3 mechanisms of solvency:**

**1) Discourse: this debate round is unique in raising awareness of the operation of structural violence – our discussion is key to open up pluralistic thinking that will help socially excluded groups**
**Opotow 01** [Susan. Associate Editor of Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology and Past President of the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues. “Chapter 8: Social Injustice”]
Fostering inclusionary... change and conflict.

**2) Estrangement: engaging in fantasy creates estrangement that lets us reevaluate the status quo – it stands in contrast with reality to defamilizarize what we take for granted**
**Mitchell 09** [Katie, BA Student in English and French, February 11, “Growing up in Wonderland: An Analysis of Lacanian Subject Formation Within the ...<span style="line-height: 1.5;">perceives reality.</span>

**3) Dissesnsus: Imagining a world without structural violence is an act of dissensus. Dissensus opposes the police order and breaks down the consensual policymaking that maintains it. Only imagination in the context of spatial reorientation can challenge this distribution of the sensible.**
**Tanke 11** (Joseph J, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Hawaii-Manoa, “JACQUES RANCIÈRE: AN INTRODUCTION”, published 2011, pg. 149-162) RF
The imagination ... of politics.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 2: Wonderland of Debate</span>=== 
**Here we continue the story of Alice in Wonderland: Alice walked further down the streets of New York and saw a bottomless rabbit hole, down which she fell. She quickly realized that she was now in the streets of Palo Alto and walked onto the Stanford campus that was hosting a debate tournament. She wandered around before going into a round of policy debate. What she saw was not a round where debaters were arguing about the fastest scenarios to nuclear wars or pretending to be the government but a round where the affirmative team was defending a personal advocacy about how to govern within our agency, using the resolution as a starting ground for their discussion.**

**This is how envision debate should be and thus our interpretation of debate is that it should be a micro-sphere of public education. We will affirm the resolution and defend links to arguments but we disagree about what that means and to what end. Instead of a forum for learning how to be governed, we should use debate to analyze political positions and learn how to govern. Our discourse and act of imagination are crucial to break out of the meaningless cycle of current practices.**
**Giroux 12** [Henry A., “Authoritarian Politics in the Age of Casino Capitalism”]
Addressing such... will slip out of reach.

**Independent of the success of our advocacy, the education from our debate is a reason to vote for the affirmative team – it’ll trigger critical engagement with the society that will create politics for social change**
**Giroux 12** [Henry, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, “Beyond the Politics of the Big Lie: The Education Deficit and the New Authoritarianism” June 6, 2012 [[http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/9865-beyond-the-politics-of-the-big-lie-the-education-deficit-and-the-new-authoritarianism]]]
He goes ... and the quest for a radical democracy.

**The 1AC represents our vision of debate as it should be and we change the debate community in 2 different ways:**

**First is with narratives: including narratives like the one above create a more inclusive community where the effects of structural violence will be reduced – this debate is key**
**Rimstead 01** [B.A. AT YORK UNIVERSITY, M.A. AT U. DE MONTRÉAL, PH.D. AT U. DE MONTRÉAL,ROXANNE, REMNANTS OF NATION ON POVERTY NARRATIVES BY WOMEN, PG. 1-6]
Besides testifying ... based on community.

**Second is with breaking away from indifference: the failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppression and the failure of our politics. Our advocacy acts as a counter hegemonic means of confronting oppression.**
**Friere ‘70** [Paulo, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University]
For the truly ... good intentions notwithstanding.

**Centralizing our academic insights about structural violence is key—only we can present a new vision of politics**
**Ornelas 2012** (Raul, Professor and activist, this essay was peer reviewed in The South Atlantic Quarterly Winter “Counterhegemonies and Emancipations: Notes for a Debate”)
The discussion of the ... different dimensions.”

**Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to a psychic genocide.**
**Hooks 2000**, TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE. [bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130]
The poor may be ... self-actualization that strengthen the self-esteem of the poor.
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC SCU</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 1: Structural Violence</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dr. James Giligan defines structural violence as “the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted with the relatively lower death rates experienced by those who are above them.” For example, people in poverty don’t have equal access to jobs, education, health care, or transportation infrastructure.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And to put this into perspective, we offer a narrative about people who don’t have access to transportation infrastructure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bensinger 11** [Ken, LA Times, “A hard road for the poor in need of cars.” November 3]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Told she'd be fired ..."I only wish there were a program like that everywhere."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Henry and I want to take this opportunity to talk about people who are usually excluded from policy debates – the people affected by structural violence. The current society constructs a distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of “us” or “them.” This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing them from ourselves, contributing to the systemic violence in the status-quo.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural violence is a form of ongoing and growing genocide – we need to focus on discontinuing its invisibility</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gilligan 96** [James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes”, p. 191-196]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The deadliest form of violence is poverty .... as cause to effect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural violence is invisible because of our distanced mindset – we think that “this is just the way things are”</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Opotow 01** [Susan. Associate Editor of Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology and Past President of the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues. “Chapter 8: Social Injustice”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moral exclusion fosters structural ... should be illegal”).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Henry and I recognize the need for transportation infrastructure for the oppressed and thus stand Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States to help the oppressed.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note that our advocacy isn’t to fiat a specific plan and feel good that we stood for the minority group. We want to retain our own individual agency and do everything we can to change the violent norms of the status quo within the debate sphere. Our 1AC is shaped by the narrative we read above and thus the role of the ballot is to endorse a political discussion that lets us transition to a world without structural violence.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 2: The Debate Community</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While we were preparing for this topic we went back to Daniel and Henry in freshman year – debating the military topic and asking ourselves why we are spending countless hours attempting to write a 2AC block to kritiks that we didn’t understand. At that point we just wanted to win and put something impressive on our college apps. But after 2 school years and 2 summers of debating, we came to a stop and asked another question, “do we really want to run a typical aff for the sake of winning and ‘learning’? or do we want to try something new, something unconventional that will interest people and maybe change the debate community for the better?” We decided to experiment with the standards of debate and advocate for societal change. We’ll defend that our discourse and advocacy will take us a step closer to eliminating structural violence by starting from the ground-up. We’ll isolate 6 internal links:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First is narratives: including narratives like the one above create a more inclusive community where the effects of structural violence will be reduced – this debate is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rimstead 01** [B.A. AT YORK UNIVERSITY, M.A. AT U. DE MONTRÉAL, PH.D. AT U. DE MONTRÉAL,ROXANNE, REMNANTS OF NATION ON POVERTY NARRATIVES BY WOMEN, PG. 1-6]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Besides testifying to the 'uncommunity' of a ... posit another based on community.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second is breaking away from indifference: the failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppressive politics and eventually the failure of our politics. Our personalized brand of politics acts as a counter hegemonic means of confronting oppression in the face of such situations.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Friere ‘70** [Paulo, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For the truly humanist educator ... good intentions notwithstanding</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Third is higher academia: centralizing our academic insights about structural violence is key—only we can present a new vision of politics</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ornelas 2012** (Raul, Professor and activist, this essay was peer reviewed in The South Atlantic Quarterly Winter “Counterhegemonies and Emancipations: Notes for a Debate”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The discussion of the horizons ... basis of these three different dimensions.”1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fourth is debate’s unique qualities: debate is a place for the voice of the oppressed – this is the key arena for our movement**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Warner and Bruschke 3** (Ede, University of Loiusville, John, CSU Fullerton, “GONE ON DEBATING:” COMPETITIVE ACADEMIC DEBATE AS A TOOL OF EMPOWERMENT FOR URBAN AMERICA)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These arguments are theoretical; ... National Debate Tournament (Hill, 1997; Stepp, 1997)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fifth is discourse: this debate round is unique in raising awareness of the operation of structural violence – communication is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Opotow 01** [Susan. Associate Editor of Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology and Past President of the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues. “Chapter 8: Social Injustice”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Establishing procedures that ... (DeRidder, Schruijer, & Tripathi, 1992).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sixth is our thought process: our dichotomous thought process is the root cause of structural violence – challenging it is the only way to solve</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Larsson 04** [Par, Assistant Professor at Stockholm University, Ph.D. “Schizophrenia and Psychology”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural violence is supported..."What schizophrenia is changes with time"</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapter 3: The Individual</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Not only do we attempt to improve the debate community, the education from our debate is key – it’ll trigger critical engagement with the society that will create politics for social change</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Giroux 12** [Henry, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, “Beyond the Politics of the Big Lie: The Education Deficit and the New Authoritarianism” June 6, 2012 [[http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/9865-beyond-the-politics-of-the-big-lie-the-education-deficit-and-the-new-authoritarianism]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">He goes on to argue "that ... for a radical democracy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to a psychic genocide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hooks 2000**, TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE. [bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The poor may be with us always....that strengthen the self-esteem of the poor.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC SCU Lay</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Introduction</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the past two weeks, America witnessed the largest Atlantic hurricane on record, as well as the second-costliest Atlantic hurricane in history after Katrina. Hurricane Sandy, starting from the Western Caribbean Sea and moving up to the east coast of the United States, has resulted over 50 billion dollars in damages and has called the world into a state of emergency. More specifically, Sandy greatly damaged the nation’s transportation infrastructure - flooding subways, eroding tunnels and shedding light on the dismal state of the safety of public structures.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An article from Business Bloomberg reads,</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[November 1, 2012 Paul M. Berrett [[http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3|http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If Hurricane Sandy ...they’re helping to cause them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus my partner Henry and I advocate that the United States federal government do two things:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, substantially increase its investment for disaster relief projects specifically dealing with transportation infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Sandy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second, improve safety measures to mitigate the damages by future hurricanes, including but not limited to utilizing inflatable plugs, waterproofing tunnels and subway stations, and increasing funding for FEMA to strengthen defense mechanisms against disasters.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Throughout the round, we will clarify what our plan does in terms of proving the resolution true.</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our first argument is that of Inherency. Here, the affirmative team must prove that the current efforts to deal with damages caused by Sandy are insufficient and require an additional measure to counter impending hurricanes. We have three pieces of evidence to present.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, current transportation infrastructure in the Northeast is ill-prepared to withstand these storms; the New York subway system is 108 years old.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from the Daily Beast reads**, [Josh Dzieza, Nov 4 2012, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/11/04/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">hurricane-sandy-s-lesson-for-flood-proofing-a-subway.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And there are many, ... our infrastructure.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tunnels such as the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel need additional funding – states haven’t acted yet</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from the New York Times from yesterday reads** [November 10, 2012, [[http://www.nytimes.com/]]2012/11/10/nyregion/hurricane-sandy-showed-vulnerability-of-citystunnels.html?pagewanted=all]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nearly two weeks ... that hard to protect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FEMA will face funding cuts in 2013 but more funding is needed to respond to disasters</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Huffington Post reads,** [Caroline Fairchild, October 30 2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/30/fema-funding-to-lose-nearly-900m_n_2044105.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As the Federal Emergency Management Agency ... The National Association of Counties.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harms: Subways and Tunnels</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our second argument is that of Harms. Here, the affirmative team must prove that doing the plan is worthwhile because of the horrendous consequences that might ensue, if the plan were not to be enacted.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before we talk about Sandy, however, we want to talk about the science behind why Sandy occurred. Triggered by the effects of climate change, Hurricane Sandy is “the new normal” for super hurricanes.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from Business Bloomberg reads,** [November 1, 2012 Paul M. Berrett [[http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3|http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yes, yes, ...even more pressing.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from the CNN reports on the severity of Subway damages**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Subways Article:** [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/03/travel/new-york-subways/index.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New Yorkers are not especially ... to work continues.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An article from the Atlantic reports about economic damage caused by Hurricane Sandy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/10/sandys-damage-so-far-more-than-20-billion/264288/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In New York City, ... hurricane in U.S. history.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our third argument is that of Solvency. Here, the affirmative team must prove that doing the plan is feasible and solves for the harms presented earlier.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Technology is not an issue – old tunnels are especially vulnerable due to lack of interest</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from the New York Times reads** [November 10, 2012, [[http://www.nytimes.com/]]2012/11/10/nyregion/hurricane-sandy-showed-vulnerability-of-citystunnels.html?pagewanted=all]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">After a close call ... spend the money.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action is critical – states can’t solve alone and only a centralized government can provide for all</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CNN October 31st** [2012, Jared Bernstein, http://www.cnn.com/2012/10/31/opinion/bernstein-fema/index.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I've seen rough ... do not understand.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Logan Lay</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Introduction</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On October 29th, 2012, America witnessed the largest Atlantic hurricane on record, as well as the second-costliest Atlantic hurricane in history after Katrina. Hurricane Sandy, starting from the Western Caribbean Sea and it moved up to the east coast of the United States, has resulted over 50 billion dollars in damages and has called the world into a state of emergency. More specifically, Sandy greatly damaged the nation’s transportation infrastructure – flooding subways, eroding tunnels, closing airports, and shedding light on the dismal state of the safety of public structures.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As a response, on December 29th, 2012, the Senate passed a $60 billion bill that not only allowed for the repair of current damages but also for provisions to mitigate damage from future storms. Unfortunately, Speaker of the House, John Boehner, cancelled the voting entirely in the House on ideological premises with regard to a specific portion that allowed for unlimited emergency spending – essentially killing the bill.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Facing extreme criticism from the media, Speaker Boehner quickly called the House to vote a $10 billion insurance bill that covered the insurance fees for damaged properties in areas affected by Sandy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, it wasn’t until the Tuesday night of this week that the House finally got together to pass the “Disaster Appropriations Relief Act,” a $51 billion bill, with $17 billion specifically allocated for Sandy relief efforts and a $33 billion amendment for general disaster relief.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Next week, the senate is scheduled to vote and pass this bill without much conflict, given that they have previously passed a similar bill. If we stay with the status quo, this seemingly beneficial Sandy Relief bill will most likely go into effect within two weeks.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here is where my partner Henry and I propose an alternate course of action. Instead of letting this bill, which is filled with smaller, unrelated bills such as the improvement of Alaskan fisheries for a cost of $150 million, we affirm this year’s resolution of increasing transportation infrastructure investment by advocating the following plan: the United States Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid should cancel the vote scheduled for next week and President Barack Obama should issue an executive order to redirect all funding for unrelated bills from the Sandy Disaster Relief Package to increase investment in hurricane damage mitigation techniques as part of a new Sandy Relief Bill. Throughout the round, we will clarify what our plan does in terms of solving for the stock issue of harms. Let’s now go to the stock issue of inherency.</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here, the affirmative team must prove that the plan won’t happen in the status quo. There are two reasons why our plan is inherent: first, the irrelevant bills won’t be cut in the status quo, which means there is no way for our plan to happen without some change; second, our new Sandy Relief Bill is distinct from the one scheduled for vote next week, which can only mean that there is a barrier to our plan happening in the status quo.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Furthermore, 1 out of every 20 dollars spent for the Sandy Relief Bill will be on irrelevant projects. This means 3 billion dollars will be redirected to funding mitigation projects under our plan.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This evidence comes from Breitbart on January 16th, 2013** (http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2013/01/16/60-Billion-Sandy-Bill-Larded-With-Pork)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rep. Mick Mulvaney... bill next week.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Let’s now go the stock issue of harms.</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harms</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here, the affirmative team must prove that doing the plan is worthwhile because of the undesirable consequences</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An article from the Atlantic reports about economic damage caused by Hurricane Sandy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2012/10/sandys-damage-so-far-more-than-20-billion/264288/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In New York ... in U.S. history</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tunnels such as the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel need additional funding – states haven’t acted yet</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from the New York Times from yesterday reads** [November 10, 2012, [[http://www.nytimes.com/]]2012/11/10/nyregion/hurricane-sandy-showed-vulnerability-of-citystunnels.html?pagewanted=all]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nearly two ... hard to protect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before we talk about Sandy, however, we want to talk about the science behind why Sandy occurred. Triggered by the effects of climate change, Hurricane Sandy is “the new normal” for super hurricanes.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**An article from Business Bloomberg reads,** [November 1, 2012 Paul M. Berrett [[http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3|http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-11-01/its-global-warming-stupid#p3]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yes, yes, ... even more pressing.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Furthermore, physical damage to New York Subway alone costs $5 billion</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This is from the National Public Radio on December 16th, 2012** ([[http://www.npr.org/2012/12/06/166672858/post-sandy-fixes-to-nyc-subways-to-cost-billions]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Most subway... is open to riders.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Let’s go to the last stock issue of solvency.</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here, the affirmative team has the burden of proving that the plan is a feasible policy option.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our first argument is that numerous mitigation techniques already exist and are ready for implementation, according to the NYS2100 report</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This is from the Fox News on January 8th, 2013** ([[http://www.foxnews.com/weather/2013/01/08/apnewsbreak-sandy-report-details-ny-storm-needs-like-subway-gates-rapid-buses/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Floodgates for tunnels,... respond to disaster.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our second argument the President can issue executive orders by bypassing congress – this is the most desirable policy option that avoids political bickering</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This comes from Thomasson in 2012** [Scott, president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm, former policy director at a nonprofit think tank, has testified before Congress about proposals for financing infrastructure, “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment,” Council on Foreign Relations Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 17, April, http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite the ... congressional approval.¶</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cites</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASPEC</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A Subpoint is the interpretation: The Affirmative should have to specify their agent in the plan text.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B Subpoint is the violation: The Affirmative specifies their agent as the USFG, but the entire federal government isn’t an actor.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Brovero in 1994** (Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation : Borderline Policies” Wake Forest Debate Site [[http://www.wfu.edu/Studentorganizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm|www.wfu.edu/Studentorganizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm]] )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The problem is not ... an agent of action</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The C Subpoint is the Voting Issues:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Ground - we lose all actor-specific case turns, counterplans, and DAs. They can always shift out of a certain part of the USFG.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. jurisdiction – Resolved, in the context of the resolution, is a transitive verb which means “to make a firm decision about”</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 2000** ([[http://www.bartleby.com/61/87/R0178700.html]] )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resolved: Transitive Verb Form: (1.) To make a firm decision about, or (2.) To cause (a person) to reach a decision. See synonyms at [[http://www.bartleby.com/61/19/D0071900.html|**decide**]].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By not specifying a legitimate agent of action, they concede they aren’t taking a resolved stance. Vote neg on jurisdiction.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASPEC is the most important voting issue for fairness, education, jurisdiction, and ground abuse. The damage is irreversibly done – our strat is skewed and our ground is lost - apologies not accepted.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You should evaluate procedural arguments in an offense-defense paradigm. They have to provide an offensive reason ASPEC is a bad idea. It’s the least arbitrary, it’s more predictable than reasonability, and it ensures objectivity in jurisdiction.</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FSPEC</span>**==== 

**A. Interpretation: The affirmative should have to specify the source of the funding for the plan in their text.**


**B. Violation: they don’t specify where their funding comes from.**


**C. Voters: the debate has shifted to funding mechanism from plans. Our interpretation gives better education and is more real world.**

**Mongelluzzo 08** – foremost expert in transportation and trade, specializing in the Trans-Pacific trade lanes, covered shipping industry news information for over 30 years (Bill, “New view on fees,” JoC Week, August 18, 2008, [[http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-35240648_ITM]]) // CB

__For years,...__ __state and local fees.__

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - USfg</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Interpretation: The USfg is the government of the United States.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal government is the United States government</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**BALLENTINE'S LAW DICTIONARY, 1969,** p. 461. (MHHAR7001)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal Government: The government of the United States.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B Subpoint is the violation: The affirmative's advocacy isn't a policy implemented by the federal government.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The C Subpoint is the Voting Issues:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ground - we lose all actor-specific case turns, counterplans, and DAs. They can always shift out of a certain part of the USFG.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By not specifying a legitimate agent of action, they concede they aren’t taking a resolved stance. Vote neg on jurisdiction.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T is the most important voting issue for fairness, education, jurisdiction, and ground abuse. The damage is irreversibly done – our strat is skewed and our ground is lost - apologies not accepted.</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Investment</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Investment” requires expenditure on physical capital stock</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Anderson 6** (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We define (net) public ... and World Bank, 2002).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That means topical plans must add new infrastructure</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Voting issue ---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Ground --- new infrastructure is key to unique disadvantages. Repairs allow the Aff to spend to maintain the status quo, not defend a substantive change. Core ground is key to fairness.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Predictable limits --- other definitions of “investment” make all spending topical --- “capital expenditure” is the only way to meaningfully restrict the topic mechanism, which is the crux of all strategy and research</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Substantial</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Interpretation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Substantially” means 40% --- strict quantification avoids vagueness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schwartz 4** (Arthur, Lawyer – Schwartz + Goldberg, 2002 U.S. Briefs 1609, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the opinion below, ... n9 (Resp. Br. App., at 15-16)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)//EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> This report responds ... interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> B. Violation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s investment is not over $19.24 billion</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Voting issue for predictable limits. Any investment under 40% explodes the topic and makes it impossible to research all the possible affs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a) Ground – Interpretation is key to neg ground – insubstantial affs make it impossible for us to run most disads</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b) Jurisdiction – It’s the judges role to reject nontopical affs</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China FDI</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The People's Republic of China should fund the plan.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here's the solvency advocate:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Richter, 3/16/11**– Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16 2011, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These leaders know that the ... back to China over time.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disads</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Politics (Fiscal Cliff)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lawmakers will reach compromise on Fiscal Cliff now – but negotiation and compromise is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Reuters – This Morning (11/18/12)** (“Lawmakers say they’re confident they can avoid ‘fiscal cliff;’[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/18/us-usa-fiscal-idUSBRE8A80WV20121118]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leading U.S. lawmakers ... Durbin said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Passing new programs during the lame duck independently triggers the link</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Miniter 12** Richard Miniter is an investigative journalist and author of three New York Times best-selling books. “Leading from Behind: The Reluctant President and the Advisors Who Decide for Him,” Google Books</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">After the historic defeat, ... any more political risks.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But deficit spending such as the plan is deemed controversial in Congress – if Obama proposes the plan, he will be viewed unfavorably.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schank 2012** – Joshua, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation (Is Partisanship the Problem?, Eno Brief Newsletter, April 16, 2012, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-partisanship-the-problem)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While neither party ... and spending increases.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sequestration destroys US global military power---triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hunter 9/30** Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the next 10 years, ... interests against any threat.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Falling over the fiscal cliff triggers a recession and drives up unemployment**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wiseman and Rugaber, November 7, 2012</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Paul, Christopher, “Fiscal cliff' looms, but longer-term outlook is sunnier” [[http://www.startribune.com/politics/177784501.html?refer=y]]) sjg</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Most urgently, the U.S. economy ... the White House.</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Politics (Immigration Reform)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immigration reform will pass now, but only with Obama pushing Republicans</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sink, January 15th, 2013</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(“White House: Rubio immigration proposals 'bode well' for reform efforts” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/277307-white-house-rubio-immigration-proposals-bode-well-for-reform-efforts#ixzz2IFwt2r00|http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/277307-white-house-rubio-immigration-proposals-bode-well-for-reform-efforts#ixzz2IFwt2r00]] sjg)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">White House ... well for the future."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><Link></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012** (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Comprehensive immigration ... not," he said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capital is key --- it bridges support from both parties.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dallas Morning News, 1/2/2012** (Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge, p. http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The president’s ... he said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schaffer,** Spring **2002** (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Washington's increased... with the United States.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritiks</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nietzsche</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative is fixated on ending suffering – but in the process it negates the very things making life worth living. We must embrace the nature of existence as chaotic and painful in order to truly live.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kain 07,** professor of philosophy at Santa Clara [Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence,” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33 (2007), 49-63]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why is it ...affirmation of life</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s focus on the transformation into a world without suffering resents the only world we have – this hatred of the status quo destroys capacity for the affirmation of life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Turanli 2003** (Aydan, Prof of Humanities and Soc Sciences @ Istanbul Technical Institute, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 26)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The craving ...affirm the beauty of life</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Embrace the status quo. We must first affirm the horror of all existence to in order to affirm the beauty of life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sadegh **Kabeer 08**, doctoral candidate in Middle Eastern politics and previously worked as a journalist based in the United Arab Emirates, 2008</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[[http://www.eterazonline.com/2008_03_01_archive.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nietzsche’s credo ... has yet reached!’[[http://www.blogger.com/post-create.g?blogID=485949151179351055|[lxxxiii]]]</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Civil Disobedience</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s method for approaching political change feeds into the same existing social structures that prevent the excluded from escaping the rigid cycle of the violent norms of the status quo.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Abu-Jamal 08** (Mumia, Changeless Change: The Law of Politics. Transcriped from radio essay available online http://www.prisonradio.org/mumia.htm [col. writ. 4/5/08] (c))</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">True change doesn't come through ... them millions of dollars to run?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural violence is a form of ongoing and growing genocide – we need to focus on discontinuing its invisibility.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gilligan 96** [James, Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence, and a member of the Academic Advisory Council of the National Campaign Against Youth Violence, “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes”, p. 191-196]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The deadliest form of violence is poverty. ... as cause to effect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Next is a question – “What do we do now?” The alternative is to reject the 1AC and use the spaces we occupy as an opportunity for acts of civil disobedience. We see this as a necessary refusal to participate in meaningless forms of change that keep us trapped in the status quo.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zinn 71** [Howard Zinn at a peace rally on Boston Common on May 5, 1971]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A lot of people are ... peasants of Southeast Asia high crime?</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Difference vs. Otherness</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is only the attempt to know the other from the self that creates a dualism– the aff’s method of dragging the Other into their circle of normalcy will only open up possibilities of more oppression, turns case.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 93** (Jean, Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-129)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These days everything is ...These are the vicissitudes of a logic of difference.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus the alternative is to affirm schizophrenia: this is a political gesture to never become a schizo, but to learn from the potential provided by the freedom of insanity. Forget the sense of the ‘self’ and view everyone through the lens of radical difference – this is key to transition to a world of Otherness.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 72** (Anti-Oedipus, 366-8)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fourth and final thesis ... on the ruins of institutions”</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Decentering</span>**==== 
**The centering of a counterstructural movement to a set advocacy limits the freeplay of structure by creating new locus points**
**Derrida 67** [Jacques, “Writing and Difference,” pg. 278-294]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It would be easy ...</span> is out of play.

**The alternative is to affirm rhizomatic politics – our advocacy opens up shootings of lines of flight and moves away from the arborescent mode of thinking**
**Deleuze and Guattari 80**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, A Thousand Plateaus, pg. 21</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The rhizome ... by a circulation of states.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate</span>**==== 

**Our interpretation of debate is that it should be a micro-sphere of public education. The affirmative should affirm the resolution and defend links to arguments but we disagree about what that means and to what end. Instead of a forum for learning how to //b//e governed, we should use debate to analyze political positions and learn how to govern. Our discourse is crucial to break out of the meaningless cycle of current practices.**
**Giroux 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Henry A., “Authoritarian Politics in the Age of Casino Capitalism”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Addressing such ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> out of reach.</span>

**Here’s our link and impact: the affirmative rejects political education in place of politicizing education. The affirmative’s framework for debate politicizes education by forcing debaters to mold to certain ideologies to undermine personal agency – this results in pedagogical terrorism.**
**Giroux 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Henry A., “Can Democratic Education Survive in a Neoliberal Society?”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other ... a culture of questioning.</span>

**The alternative is the reject the affirmative’s form of education and use the ballot to endorse political education that allows for the connection between personal agency and the society – only we can solve for the impacts**
**Giroux 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Henry A., “Can Democratic Education Survive in a Neoliberal Society?”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Central here...</span> human suffering.
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Politics of Fear</span>**==== 
**First, macro-political fear mongering is replicated with horrible consequences on a geopolitical scale when confronted with the affirmatives impact claims … The affirmative’s scenarios of catastrophic destruction are merely a thinly veiled attempt to engage in the politics of fear. It is this fear that leads to authentic disaster; the same fear that beset the colonizer when confronted with the Native; the fear that flowed in the blood of white slave masters, the fear of 9/11 that Bush, Cheney, and Rumsfeld transformed into the war in Iraq, and lastly here the affirmative feeds into fear that will lead us to continue in a brand of racist politics that lives up to its forefathers. We are done with fear…it is time to free ourselves from it.**
Mumia **Abu-Jamal in 07** (The Politics of Fear Transcriped from radio essay available online http://www.prisonradio.org/mumia.htm [col. writ. 12/23/07] (c))
We live, ... that set of wares.

**Furthermore, fear feeds upon itself until it can only produce chaos and more fear…if we give into this vicious cycle we abandon hope and the chance for real change with it.**
Mumia **Abu-Jamal in 06** (FEAR MERCHANTS. Transcriped from radio essay available online [[http://www.prisonradio.org/mumia.htm]] [Col. Writ. 10/29/06] )
It is increasingly... Isn't it time for *real* change?

**Finally, don’t believe the hype. The politics of fear is a tactic well practiced by the privileged and the powerful to line their politics and push their agenda. Their politics are no different…all of their scenarios for destruction are grossly hyperbolic constructions designed to distract us from an authentic opportunity for liberation.**
Mumia **Abu-Jamal in 08** (The Fear Bomb -- Again! Transcriped from radio essay available online http://www.prisonradio.org/mumia.htm [col. writ. 9/23/08] (c) )
If Congress ... your breath!
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Military</span>**==== 
**US military practices are an extension of domestic prison politics. The US military falsely imprisons, tortures, and dehumanizes individuals in the never ending quest to rid the world of the “worst of the worst.” Every extension of US military hegemony is merely a justification to replicate the harms of the 1AC on an international scale.**
Mumia **Abu Jamal in 09** (Jailhouse Lawyers: Prisoners Defending Prisoners v. The USA. City Lights Books. P. 70)
In an entirely ...the worst of the worst?
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China</span>**==== 
**Their flawed epistemology makes us conceptualize China as being a solid hegemon who threatens American way of life, when in all reality it is a fluid country whose identity is constantly changing**
Chengxin **Pan 04,** Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts,Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. [[@mailto:Chengxin.Pan@anu.edu.au|Chengxin.Pan@anu.edu.au]], 2004, The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination:The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives 29 (2004), 305-331
It may be the... U.S. foreign policy.

**Their representations China as a threat are a self-fulfilling prophecy**
Chengxin **Pan 04**, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts,Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. [[@mailto:Chengxin.Pan@anu.edu.au|Chengxin.Pan@anu.edu.au]], 2004, The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination:The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives 29 (2004), 305-331 [[@https://docs.google.com/a/whitman.edu/file/d/0B_Ije_JyQWsaNUxWRUVLbTd2eEU/edit]]
More specifically,... common positivist assumptions.

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg causes terrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Layne 06 </span>** Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University
(Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 190-191)
<span class="underline">The events of ... for Muslim anger</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their ontology turns the case – integrating the imperial logic perpetuates cycle of violence in which we constantly try to forget past failures through new wars – this inevitably culminates in extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Spanos 8** (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. ix-x) PJ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this book ... very idea of America.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Terrorism**</span>==== 

**The totalizing us-them nature of terrorism discourse and the image of terrorism prevent effective measures to stop the violence, requiring an infinite mimetic war to “win” – only by problematizing our totalizing view can we prevent endless cycles of violence.**
Joseba **Zulaika 03**, (Professor, Center for Basque Studies), Radical History Review, Issue 85 (winter 2003), ebsco
The events of ...<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> terrorism discourse.</span>

**The alternative is to reject such representations of violence. By viewing these as criminal rather than evil, we can prevent totalizing violence and evaluate a more democratic perspective.**
Robert L **Ivie 03**, Indiana University Communications Professor and Department Chair, 2003, “Evil Enemy Versus Agonistic Other: Rhetorical Constructions of Terrorism”, Ebsco
If the rhetoric ... upon rearticulation.
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Death</span>**==== 
**Interpretation – The affirmative must prove that death is bad in order to win that their impacts are a reason why you should vote for them. Until they prove that death is bad, vote negative on presumption.**

**Death is a fantasy – our biology means we cannot truly “die” or cease to be, rather we enter a new form of becoming: becoming earth. Becoming-nitrogen. Even if we are all wiped from the face of the earth in a hailstorm of nuclear bombs the process of life goes on even at the micro level. There is no unique warrant for why the biological construct of human deserves a place higher than the construct of atoms.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72** [AO, 330-39]
But it seems...<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> ourselves do. "</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economy</span>**==== 
**Economy recovery will continue into the future – no collapse**
Paul **Krugman nobel prize winner in economics**, economist, **9-7**, 12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/07/opinion/krugman-cleaning-up-the-economy.html?_r=1
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">And here’s the ...than the past four years</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SCU</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2: Skyline AA (New Orleans)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: ASPEC, China Fund CP, Politics, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: ASPEC, Difference vs. Otherness, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: China Fund CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Civil Disobedience K</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4: Mission San Jose AB (Equity ADA Regulation)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: ASPEC, T - Investment, China Fund CP, Politics, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: ASPEC, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: China Fund CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Civil Disobedience K</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6: James Logan CB (American Marine Highway)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Civil Disobedience K, Politics, China Fund CP, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Civil Disobedience K, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: China Fund CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Civil Disobedience K, Case</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Quarters: Skyline AA (New Orleans)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - Investment, T - Substantial, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Politics, China Fund CP</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Condo, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: T - Substantial, China Fund CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Civil Disobedience K</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Semis: Douglas SD (Post Offices)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: ASPEC, T - Investment, T - Substantial, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Politics, China Fund CP, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: ASPEC, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: T - Substantial, T - Investment, China Fund CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: ASPEC, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finals: Cal Prep AH (Racism Micropolitics)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T - USfg, Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Banquet CP, Demand China CP, Vote neg CP, Framework, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Banquet CP, Framework</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Banquet CP</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Logan</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2: Saint Francis (NIB)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: China CP, Politics, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: China CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: China CP, Politics</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3: Dougherty Valley (Ableism)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: China CP, Politics, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: China CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: China CP, Politics</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5: Bellarmine PF (Disabilities)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: China CP, Politics, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: China CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: China CP, Politics</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Octas: Leland VA (Highway Trust Funds)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: China CP, Politics, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: China CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: China CP, Politics</span>**
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stanford</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2: Meadows EK (NIB)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: ASPEC, FSPEC, T-Sub, T-Investment, China CP, Politics, Death, Debate K, Civil Disobedience K, Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: FSPEC, Death, Debate K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: China CP, Politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Debate K</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3: Georgetown Day ZM (Disability)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T-Sub, Framework, China CP, Banquet CP, Politics, Differnce vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Difference vs. Otherness K, Civil Disobedience K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Difference vs. Otherness K</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6: Loyola AD (Guam)</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Debate K</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Debate K, Politics of Fear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Framework</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Debate K</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Henry (2A): [[mailto:henry.shangguan@gmail.com|henry.shangguan@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daniel (2N): [[mailto:danielpark95@gmail.com|danielpark95@gmail.com]]</span>