[[toc]]
=**CONTACT INFO N' IMPOHTANT SCHTUFF**= 
We're only posting cites, but if you can't access/find a source we will be happy to email full text.
Cites: email Alex at azay1113 [at] gmail [dot] com

This page is pretty much for every team that Alex Zhang is on. Partners switch 'n stuff. And flip flop. Like Mitt Romney.

Also, I'd like to brag that this wiki page is better than DSchexy and Ian Wren's.

Finally, I'd like to challenge every team in Arkansas to make a better wiki than this (for better disclosure and educational purposes, not because I'm conceited and like winning). Because goodness knows there are just //soooooooo// many Arkansas debate teams with wikis. Bentonville Bajpayee/Hedstrom and Saswat, Heritage Madson/Rojo, Heritage Rogel/Reed, Fayetteville Dunn/Wang, Fayetteville Ferrier, Griggs, and Edge. Come 'on guise. Let's do it.

#GJJPforlyfe
=Affirmative= 
==MTS AFF== 
===1AC Bentonville Round 1=== 
====1AC Marine Highways==== 

**Contention 1 is Marine Highways**

**Status quo Marine Transportation System infrastructure is failing in capacity and investment.**
**Cox et al, 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Joseph J. is President and CEO of Chamber of Shipping of America; Matsuda, Hon. David T., Administrator, Maritime Administration; Mohr, John M., Executive Director, Port of Everett, Washington; Roberts, Michael G., Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Crowley Maritime Corporation, on behalf of American Maritime Partnership; Tellez, Augustin, Executive Vice President, Seafarers International Union (Joseph J., “Creating Jobs and Increasing U.S Exports By Enhancing The Marine Transportation System,” Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House of Representatives, June 14, 2011. [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/html/CHRG-112hhrg66919.htm]])AS</span>

However, because of much of the system's infrastructure is aging
AND
expand the system to meet its future challenges. Nevertheless, we must find a way forward.

**There are three internal links to the economy:**

**First is jobs and second is exports**

**Capacity limitations prevent economic growth by rendering MTS ineffective**
**Lobiondo, et al 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]] </span>

In order to remain competitive in a global economy, improving
AND
ensures the U.S. market remains pre-eminent in global trade. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.



**Third is congestion**

**a. Congestion is the biggest stranglehold on the economy— costs act as economic multipliers across all sectors**
**Cambridge Systematics ‘2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Benefits of Reducing Congestion: NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment,” January 2002 http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf]</span>
Delivery of goods and services. Congestion increases the cost of delivering products
AND
market available to a business leads to an average 6.5 percent increase in business productivity.29

**b. Expansion of Marine Highways will relieve this congestion, preventing economic collapse**
**MARAD 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)</span>NJain


Traffic congestion imposes serious costs on society in the form of
AND
facilitate the transition to greater use of this underutilized national asset.

**And, economic collapse triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld**, **08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, 2008, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>

Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture.
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.

**Independently, free trade creates structural disincentives for war and deters terrorism**
**Griswold, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]] BJM</span>

Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.”
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.

**Investment in MTS sustains US agricultural exports**
**Khachatryan and Casavant 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Research Associate and Director/Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity (Hayk and Ken, THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE, [[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]], EL)</span>

The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage
AND
waterways in the US. The CSRS links the Pacific Northwest (PNW) economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.

**The collapse of U.S. agricultural exports turns every impact and makes extinction inevitable**
**Lugar, 4** – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html

In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East
AND
play a decisive humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.




====1AC Shipbuilding==== 

**Contention 2 is Shipbuilding**

**Steady federal funding is a prerequisite to naval power by revitalizing the shipbuilding industrial base, generating jobs, and maintaining defense capabilities**
**AMO ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [American Maritime Officer “Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs,” May 2012, http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf, AZhang]</span>

As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development,
AND
in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.

**Plan stabilizes the shipbuilding industry, reduces costs, and solve all institutional inefficiencies**
**Cropsey ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropse</span><span class="SmallText" style="font-size: 8pt;">y, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf, AZhang]</span>

Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part of American manufacturing. But accelerating cost,
AND
turnover and the shipbuilders’ dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.

**Specifically, it prevents cost overruns**
**Margaronis ’08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stas Margaronis, “Green ships can fight global warming,” p. 44, www.sustainableshipping.com/library/view_paper?item_id=30, AZhang]</span>

Even today, Congressional reports continue to point out that billions of dollars
AND
is actually costing U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars.

**Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— Investment is key**
**Eaglen ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/, AZhang]</span>

None of America’s armed forces can meet all of the demands
AND
that is sustained through the long term.” However, the price of U.S. weakness will be greater in the long run.

**Naval power key to deter major power war**
**Conway et al 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Commandant of the Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral U.S. Navy, Chief of Naval Operations, and Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commandant of the Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, October 2007, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)//AMV</span>

Deter major power war. No other disruption is as potentially disastrous
AND
sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore.

**And, causes escalation of every transnational threat –revitalizing the faltering ship building industry is key**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NLUS, 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]] | AK)</span>

Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy,
AND
Taking care of our wounded warriors is fundamental.

**<span style="color: black;">And, the deterrence impact is proven— competitors will only surpass us absent investment</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Holmes ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[24 January 2011, James R. Holmes, a defense analyst for The Diplomat and an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College where he specializes in US, Chinese and Indian maritime strategy and US diplomatic and military history, co-author of Red Star over the Pacific, an Atlantic Monthly Best Foreign Affairs Book for 2010 and a former US Navy surface warfare officer. “Can U.S. Navy Shift to Pacific?” http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/06/26/u-s-navys-quantity-problem/, AZhang]</span>

As naval technology gallops on, can fleets execute the same missions with fewer assets?
AND
A mismatch among policy, strategy, and forces looms.


**We’ll Isolate 2 Scenarios**

**First is China**

**Lack of naval capability only emboldens China- plan prevents miscalculation and escalation, and strengthens US-China relations**
**WSJ ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [19 August 2010, Wall Street Journal, “The Chinese Military Challenge The PLA is seeking to push U.S. forces out of Asian waters,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704554104575434740649387972.html, AZhang]</span>

The Pentagon's annual report on China's military power finally surfaced Monday,
AND
defend its friends and interests in the region against all challengers.

**And, there’s a high risk of impact - Perception of constrained U.S. Naval forces coupled with Chinese nationalism makes even a minor maritime conflict escalate**
**Kraska ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Kraska, “China Set for Naval Hegemony”, C ommander James Kraska, JAGC, U.S. Navy, serves as the Howard S. Levie Chair of Operational Law at the U.S. Naval War College and Senior Fellow at Foreign Policy Research Institute, http://the-diplomat.com/2010/05/06/china-ready-to-dominate-seas, 5/6/10, AZhang]</span>

Fifth, China is riding a wave of national overconfidence
AND
alone will recalibrate the balance of sea power.

**The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts**
**Straits Times 2k** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>

The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war
AND
that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.

**Second is Iran**

**Iran’s asymmetric warfare capabilities have surpassed ours— Plan prevents naval risk aversion, Iranian adventurism, and Strait of Hormuz conflict**
**Singh 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” January 3, 2012, [[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]])</span>

Even if Iran ignored these considerations and proceeded with an
AND
belligerence nor passivity, but a robust posture that makes Tehran think twice.

**That escalates to nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/)</span>

That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every
AND
to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.


====1AC Plan==== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its Marine Transportation System infrastructure investment in the United States.**

====1AC Solvency==== 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**The federal government is key for multiple reasons**

**A. Best solves the expansion of Marine Highways and Shipbuilding Industry**
**Zimmer, 11** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]] </span>

For the United States to compete in the global market it is imperative that it
AND
The budget cuts to this program demonstrate a shortsightedness that is disheartening at best.

**B. Leverages private investment and reduces congestion**
**Cook, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**</span>

For more than a decade, Europe and the U.S. have witnessed increasing
AND
that is being purchased by the vessel owner and included as a transaction cost.

**C. Has Jurisdiction and key to Leadership**
**AAPA, 11** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]</span>**

Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and
AND
America’s economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.

**And, states fail— they require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions**
**Puentes 11** – Director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes; Brookings, Accessed June 19 2012)</span>

The country needs to become more export-oriented for the future health of the economy.
AND
Now, I ask you: How does any of this help get us closer to our national goals?


===2AC AT: Disads=== 
====AT: Elections DA (Obama Good)==== 
**1. Non Unique—** <span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Romney will take the lead— shift in swing state polls, loss of momentum, and debate proves</span>**</span>
<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Merkel 10/4</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [4 October, 2012, Jesse Merkel, PolicyMic “Rasmussen Polls Show that Presidential Debate Last Night May Put Romney in the Lead,” http://www.policymic.com/articles/15777/rasmussen-polls-show-that-presidential-debate-last-night-may-put-romney-in-the-lead, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">On Wednesday night, the first presidential debate between President Obama and Republican presidential candidate </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which has been </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.policymic.com/articles/15839/who-won-the-presidential-debate-even-liberals-say-romney-is-undisputed-winner-obama-lacks-fire|called for Romney]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>could tip the balance permanently.

**2. Link Turn—**
**a.** **Strong shipbuilding industry is the critical issue in Virginia, which is the key swing state to the elections— STAR THIS CARD**
**Litvan, July 30**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[30 July 2012, Laura Litvan, Writer for Business Week, “Virginia Voters Ask Whom to Blame for Defense Cut Risk,”¶ [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-30/virginia-voters-ask-whom-to-blame-for-defense-cut-risk]], AZhang]</span>

In a campaign year dominated by the economy and jobs, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Washington says</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**little** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**AND**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">early signs</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that the threatened defense </span>reductions are becoming a potent political issue.

**b. The Public supports infrastructure investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Madland and Bunker 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Nick, Director of the American Worker Project and Research Assistant with the Economic Policy team at American Progress “Ties that Bind: How a Strong Middle Class Supports Strong Public Infrastructure”, Center for American Progress Action Fund, March 22, 2012, [[http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2012/03/middle_class_infrastructure.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And make no mistake,</span> __the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">broader</span> __American__
__AND__
prepared to pay more in taxes to do so<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**c. Unions support the plan**
**MTD, 11** (Metal Trades Department, industry group focused on shipbuilding and metals production, “The Way Forward--US Commercial Ship Building: A Strategic National Asset”, 6/20/2011, http://www.metaltrades.org/?zone=/unionactive/view_article.cfm&HomeID=209195&page=Shipbuilding, Deech)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It must be understood that there must be </span>full commitment and support of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American </span>Labor
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American landscape. Put succinctly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Unions </span>understand what is at stake<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**3. No link and independents not key – the election is highly polarized, not enough people are willing to switch votes**
**Blake July 23**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, covers national politics at the Washington Post, where he writes regularly for the Fix, summa cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota “The incredible shrinking — and increasingly valuable — undecided voter,” July 23, 2012, The Fix from the Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/the-incredible-shrinking--and-increasingly-valuable--undecided-voter/2012/07/23/gJQAcRMH4W_blog.html?wprss=rss_the-fix)PC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama, Mitt Romney and a slew of outside groups will spend hundreds of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama campaigns working on a strategy to capture those voters as we speak.</span>

**4. Foreign policy will determine outcome of elections, not transportation**
**Berger 7/12** (Samuel R. Berger, staff to The Wichita Eagle, “Foreign Policy Curveballs Could Swing the Election,” 7/12/12, [[http://www.kansas.com/2012/07/12/2405038/foreign-policy-curveballs-could.html]]) NA
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has become an article of faith in this presidential campaign – backed by relentless </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__important factors in President George W. Bush’s re-election in 2004.__

**5. No link uniqueness—Obama’s already pushing for loan guarantees**
**Power Finance & Risk 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—provides a comprehensive package of actionable news, analysis, propietry data, and informed perspectives on financing in North American Industry (“Industry Current: A U.S. National Infrastructure Bank” Jul 11, 2011 Proquest)</span>NJain

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span>__Obama called__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in February </span>__for creation of a national infrastructure bank__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> are likely to provide on taxpayer investment.</span>
=== === 
====AT: Sprawl DA==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Non-unique – urban sprawl already high – </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ortiz, '04</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Franscesa – Professor of Law and the Presidential Research Professor for South Texas College of Law, J.D. 1989, Harvard Law School, Council Member of both the Animal Law Section and the Environmental Law Section of the Houston Bar Association, January 2004 (“Smart Growth and Innovative Design: An Analysis of the New Community,” ENVIRONMENTAL LAW REPORTER News and Analysis, Issue 34)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This process of suburban growth, commonly referred to as</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">urban sprawl,has become </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
**__, and__** <span style="font-family: Georgia;">continued growth is expected for at least the next 25 years.</span>

**No link – local governments solve for sprawl –**
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">Elizabeth</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;"> **Selbst, ‘11** </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">(Environmental Management and Public Policy Graduate Student at Duke University)</span>[[http://www.govloop.com/profiles/blogs/elizabeth-selbst-fund-local-land-banking-to-reverse-urban-sprawl]]

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">If the US government had $100 million remaining, it should fund a land </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">inefficient patterns of sprawl by creating opportunities to revitalize post-industrial cities</span>__**__<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__

**Sprawl doesn't hurt agricultural production –**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Akron Beacon Journal 07</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> “Despite urban sprawl, dairy farms still flourish in Wayne County” ,The Associated Press State & Local Wire</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> [http://www.ohio.com]</span>
<span class="hit">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Urban sprawl</span>__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">continues to creep in, but cattle and dairy farming are thriving</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">in </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">working on the same farm is pretty remarkable in today's day and age." </span>
**<span style="color: #333333;">Biodiversity can outlast urban sprawl and even benefit from it – </span>**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Laurel </span>**Ashton**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">April 14, 20</span>**12**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;"> (“Urban Sprawl: Environmental Disaster or Harmony with Nature” Laurel Ashton isstudent at Reinhardt University who is very passionate about the environment and striving to learn more about how to live an eco-friendly life </span>[[http://laurelashton.hubpages.com/hub/Urban-Sprawl-Environmental-Disaster-or-Harmony-with-Nature]]<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">.)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">Ever since humans set foot on this continent, permanent human settlements have been built </span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 6pt;">cause an increase or decrease in biodiversity, damage or aid the environment.</span>

**Biodiversity is bad – it makes ecosystems less stable and more prone to collapse – simple systems are more stable**
**Heath, 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jim Heath - Australian Orchid Council Inc., 1999, Orchids Australia, “WHY SAVE ORCHIDS UNDER THREAT?,” [[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]], CM)</span>
__Some people say__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">we can’t afford to lose any species, no matter what species </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">add diversity, and </span>__that added diversity makes the biological world more stable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Biodiversity makes ecosystems less stable and more susceptible to collapse – increased biodiversity prevents resiliency and collapses the system**</span>
**Naeem, 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shahid Naeem - Director of Science at Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERC), Professor and Chair of Columbia University Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, 07 March 2002, Nature Magazine, “Biodiversity: Biodiversity equals instability?,” pg. 23, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pfisterer and Schmid [3] studied biomass production in a combinatorial plant-diversity </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by the camp that disagrees with the idea that biodiversity leads to stability. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Biodiversity begets instability rather than stability – scientific consensus**</span>
**Naeem et al 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shahid Naeem - Director of Science at Center for Environmental Research and Conservation (CERC), Professor and Chair of Columbia University Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, “Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning: synthesis and perspectives,” pg. 80, CM)</span>
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> early </span>view<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that permeated ecology until the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1960s was </span>that diversity<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or complexity</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the 1970s and 1980s because of the mathematical rigour of the theory</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Momentum changing – diseases can be eliminated.**
**Paulson, ’11** – senior writer for Humanosphere and NPR
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Tom Paulson, blogger for Humanosphere and senior writer for National Public Radio; “Which four diseases face total eradication? Bill Foege predicts extension of smallpox success;” published 6/28/2011; [[http://humanosphere.kplu.org/2011/06/bill-foege-on-disease-eradication-on-the-world/]]; Jay]</span>
__Smallpox was, until today, the only disease that had ever been eradicated__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">try to eradicate malaria and </span>__I’m very optimistic about it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span>

**Impacts of disease exaggerated – not enough momentum to kill humanity.**
**Lind, ’11 –** policydirector at the New America Foundation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Lind, policy director of the New America Foundation's Economic Growth Program; “So Long, Chicken Little;” published in Foreign Policy, March/April 2011; [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/22/so_long_chicken_little?page=0,8]]; Jay] </span>
__There's nothing like a good plague to get journalists and pundits in a__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">frenzy. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__fatigue on the part of a public subjected to endless Chicken Little scares.__

**Bodies can’t spread disease – infection will be limited.**
**Range IMD, ‘10**
[Range IMD, “Dead Bodies Do Not Spread Disease;” 1/15/2010; [[http://rangelmd.com/2010/01/dead-bodies-do-not-spread-disease/]]; Jay]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You hear it after every natural disaster that causes large loss of life and the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">toxic but only if swallowed in large doses and I’m not going there). </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Continuing CO2 atmospheric input from warming is key to extend our current interglacial period**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Shaffer, 09**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary Shaffer – professor in the Planet and Geophysics department of the Niels Bohr Institute of University of Copenhagen, Director of the Danish Center for Earth System Science, senior scientist at Department of Geophysics, University of Concepcion, Chile, 11 February 2009, “Long time management of fossil fuel resources to limit global warming and avoid ice age onsets,” </span><span style="font-family: AdvTT5843c571,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Geophysical Research Letters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vol. 36, L03704, doi:10.1029/2008GL036294, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[1] There are about 5000 billion tons of fossil fuel carbon in accessible </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoiding ice age onsets as long as possible for available fossil fuel reserves. </span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**An ice age is the ONLY scenario for extinction – warming will be beneficial, history proves**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Forbes, 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Viv Forbes – Chairman of The Carbon Sense Coalition, 4 February 2010, “New tax inevitable in the Libs' alternative ETS,” The Advertiser, Australia, pg. 20, lexis, CM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no evidence that carbon dioxide drives temperature changes on Earth. And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China and India. Many foolish local politicians have thus become foreign agents.</span>

====AT: Water Wars DA==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There’s no statistical precedent for water wars and adaptation and cooperation solve – star this card</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katz, 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Katz, faculty member at the University of Haifa's Department of Geography and Environmental Studies, where he teaches courses in environmental and resource economics, water management, and economic and political geography. He also serves as an adjunct lecturer at Tel Aviv University's Recanati School of Management and Porter School for Environmental Studies, where he teaches courses on economics of the environment and natural resources and on corporate environmental strategy. “ Hydro-Political Hyperbole: Examining Incentives for Overemphasizing the Risks of Water Wars,” written in Global Environmental Politics, February 2011 [[http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.726.pdf%20Accessed%206/23/12|http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.726.pdf Accessed 6/23/12]] BJM</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Critiques of the Water War Hypothesis A number critiques have been leveled against both the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__“support for a scarcity theory of water conflict is somewhat ambiguous__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 42 </span>


**Conflict resolution mechanisms in existing water treaties prevent escalation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">De Stefano, et. al, 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lucia De Stefano, Expert in Soil & Groundwater and Geologist at Oregon State University, “Climate change and the institutional resilience of international river basins,” Written in Journal of Peace Research, 2012 49: 193 [[http://jpr.sagepub.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/49/1/193.full.pdf+html]] Accessed 6/23/12 BJM=</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conflict resolution </span>__Conflict resolution mechanisms, such as third-party involvement or arbitration,__
__AND__
__with a transboundary RBO will deal better with present and projected water variability.__

====AT: Federalism DA==== 
**Non-Unique— MARAD is the legitimate authority of marine transportation and actively involved now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 71]
In closing, MARAD will use its current authorities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, as delegated by the Secretary</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
representatives, and the public to insure the success of this important initiative.

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">No risk of encroachment that’s substantial enough to alter federalism</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Ernest </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Young</span><span style="color: black;">, Law Prof @ Texas, May </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">2003</span><span style="color: black;">, Texas Law Review, ln</span>
<span style="color: black;">One of the privileges of being a junior faculty member is that senior colleagues often </span>
<span style="color: black;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black;">balance. Don't make it sound like you think the sky is falling."</span>

**States and Federal power aren’t zero sum --- concurrent regulation is the norm**
**<span style="color: black;">Schapiro ‘06</span>**
<span style="color: black;"> (Robert, Prof Law – Emory, Fordham Law Review, March, Lexis)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">The jurisprudence of Justice John Paul Stevens advances a strong vision of national unity. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">inclination to return to the pre-New Deal conceptions of dual sovereignty. </span>

**No international modeling of federalism**
**<span style="color: black;">Moravcsik, 05</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Andrew, “Dream On America”, Newsweek, 1/31, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/6857387/site/newsweek/]])</span>
<span style="color: black;">Not long ago, the American dream was a global fantasy. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Not only Americans </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="color: black;">and legal system are out of step with the rest of the world</span>__<span style="color: black;">.</span>

**Kashmir conflict Doesn’t go nuclear – they will stay conventional**
**Chari 03**– P.R. Chari is a Research Professor. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"IPCS Nuclear Crisis, Escalation Control, and Deterrence in South Asia” P.R. Chari Working Paper Version 1.0 August 2003 http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/escalation_chari_1.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__the involvement of nuclear installations in the Indo-Pak crises__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of 1984</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__prevailing atmosphere of mistrust and convictions regarding the irrationality of the “Other.”__
===2AC AT: Counterplans=== 
====AT: Privatization CP==== 
**Private sector lacks sufficient funds for capital infrastructure investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oberstar, 10</span> [Rep. James Oberstar, Chairman, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure,
Marine Highways and Short Sea Shipping: The Future is Bright, Sea Technology, January 2010, Vol. 51, Issue 1]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Capital </span>investment in vessels and infrastructure <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is </span>another hurdle preventing a more robust marine highway
AND
requires, and the market for short sea shipping has not yet developed.

**Private investment growth slowing now – The INDUSTRY now perceives Fed action key**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 38]
While <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">progress has been made to advance</span> the concept of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America’s Marine Highway</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">much </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
-held perception that Federal leadership is required to make further significant progress.

Private action failing now- federal coordination key to realizing the potential of marine highways
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 6-7]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our</span> nation’s current<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> surface transportation </span>system is largely the result of public and private sector
AND
to both private users and the public at large <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">may </span>not<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> be </span>realized.
===2AC AT: Topicality=== 
====AT: In = Within==== 
**“In” means “throughout”**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Words and Phrases 8</span>** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“United States” means all of the states</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA 6</span>** (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006, [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">United States</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When used in the </span>geographic sense<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, means </span>all<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1019&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=ORG|Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics ]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1&P_DATA_ID=11722&P_VERSION=1&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=INFO|Commercial Chemical Control Rules]][[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.navigate_term?p_term_id=292529&p_term_cd=TERMDIS|Term Detail]]</span>
===<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">2AC AT: Critiques</span>=== 
====AT: "Biopower"==== 
(The "critique" that Rogers Heritage reads)

**Objective truth is knowable and verifiable – all decisions are formed based on evidence and logic**
**__Sokal ’96__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__** <span class="NormalWebChar">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Physics at New York University </span>**</span>
[Alan. “Transgressing the Boundaries: An Afterword.” [[http://physics.nyu.edu/~as2/afterword_v1a/afterword_v1a_singlefile.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__such epistemological agnosticism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">simply </span>__won't suffice__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at least not </span>__for people who aspire__
__AND__
__to reasoned (albeit tentative) judgments based on that evidence and logic.__

**Turn— The critique creates a distinction between biological and political life that destroys value to life**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fassin, 10</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Social Science Prof at Princeton (Didier, “Ethics of Survival: A Democratic Approach to the Politics of Life” Humanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism, and Development, Fall, Vol 1 No 1, Project Muse)dm</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conclusion </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Survival</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in the sense Jacques Derrida attributed to the concept in his last </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in its multiple forms but also in its everyday expression of the human</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Turn— Biopolitics creates strong government through citizen benefits- key to democracy and freedom**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Dickison, 2004** - associate professor of history at UC Davis (Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse about "Modernity””, accessed from JSTOR on 7/4/12)</span>BZ
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nor should we stop at a reexamination of knowledge and technology. It might make </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__on considering the fact that modern biopolitics has “worked” phenome­nally well.__

**And, that checks radicalization of biopolitics—empirically proven.**
**Dickinson 04**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Edward Ross, Associate Professor of History at the University of California-Davis, “ Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse about "Modernity"”, in Central European History, Vol. 37, No. 1 (2004), pg 18-19.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In an important programmatic statement of 1996 Geoff Eley celebrated the fact that </span>__Foucault's ideas__
__AND__
__not develop the dynamic of constant radicalization and escalation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that characterized Nazi policies. </span>

**Biopolitics key to global US heg**
<span class="Heading4Char">__Reid 5__ </span>– Professor of International Relations – University of Sussex) Third World Quarterly v (2 June, “The Biopolitics of the War on Terror”, )(
Julian; . 26 n.

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The defining feature of the modern international system has been the ongoing conflict between the </span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">States </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is asserted today other than in the context of a global biopolitics.</span>__</span>

**Heg prevents Global Nuclear War**

**__Khalilzad 95__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– RAND Institute (Spring, “Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War”, ) (Zalmay; , Washington Quarterly l/n) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system </span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">2AC AT: Case Turns</span>=== 
====AT: Heg Bad==== 
**Heg is durable – status quo conditions of accommodation and nuclear peace sustain unipolarity**
**<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Monteiro 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Nuno P., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University (June 13, 2011, “BALANCING ACT WHY UNIPOLARITY MAY BE DURABLE,” [[http://www.nunomonteiro.org/wp-content/uploads/Nuno-Monteiro-Balancing-Act-20110613.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What is, then, wrong with the argument that unipolarity is indeed durable? </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">eventually shifting the systemic balance of power and putting an end to unipolarity.</span>__

**Unipolarity prevents conflict and solves great power wars**
**Wohlforth, ‘9**. William, professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics v61, n1, January, Muse.
The evidence suggests that narrow and asymmetrical capabilities gaps foster status competition even among states
AND
__war could once again form the backdrop of world politics__. 

====AT: Competitiveness Bad <3 Scotty P==== 
**Competition is inevitable – engaging in action creates sustained social improvement**
Fainstein 01 – professor in Harvard Graduate School of Design<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susan S. “Competitiveness, Cohesion, and Governance: Their Implications for Social Justice”, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, Volume 25.4, December 2001, [[http://internal.gsd.harvard.edu/people/faculty/fainstein/docs/Competitiveness,%20Cohesion%20Governance%20IJURR%20final.pdf)//FK]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This returns us to the question of the relationship between competitiveness and cohesion. On </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__by a capabilities approach to social justice but nevertheless is a necessary condition.__

**Competition prevents extinction – allows for disputes to be resolve without war**
**Gartzkey, 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Erik, UC San Diego Political Science Department (“Interdependence Really is Complex,” 2/15/10, http://dss.ucsd.edu/~egartzke/papers/complexinterdep_02242010.pdf)RK</span>

__Strategists in the early nuclear era faced a fundamental challenge. How was competition possible__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">also imply that interdependent dyads should be more peaceful than asymmetrically dependent dyads.</span>

====AT: Dedevelopment==== 
in this round it was a separate off lol.

**Growth and capitalism is inherently __sustainable__ – it provides an __incentive__ to preserve resources – eventual high prices will __curb consumption__ – triggers a __mindset shift__ towards __sustainability__ without __collapse__**
**Cudd, 11** (Ann E., Professor of Philosophy, Associate Dean for Humanities, University of Kansas, “<span style="color: black;">Capitalism, For and Against - A Feminist Debate,” Cambridge University Press, Section 3, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I agree with Professor Holmstrom that </span>**__we should be__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>**__concerned with__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pollution, and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__from the more scarce__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and therefore more expensive, </span>__privately owned good.__

**Growth __solves__ structural violence**
**Bhagwati, 4** (Jagdish N., <span style="color: black;">Columbia University, </span>Economics Department<span style="color: black;">, </span>“In Defense of Globalization,” Oxford University Press, pg. 55-60, Tashma)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let me add that </span>**__growth is__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>**__a powerful mechanism that__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> brings to life social </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__greater use of clean water, among other things, by the poor.__

**Growth is key to biomedical advances – solves disease**
**Cudd 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 41-42</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise </span>__scientific advances require much wealth investment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Easterlin__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> argues that scientific innovations do not </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__, and developing vaccines, pain killers, and cures for syphilis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.47</span>

**Extinction**
**Yu 9** - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

__A pandemic will kill off all humans.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the past, humans have indeed </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (10). </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Collapse doesn’t create a mindset shift -- increases resource competition and violence.** </span>
Monbiot 2009<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George Monbiot, columnist for the Guardian, has held visiting fellowships or professorships at the universities of Oxford (environmental policy), Bristol (philosophy), Keele (politics), Oxford Brookes (planning), and East London (environmental science), “Is there any Point in Fighting to stave off industrial apocalypse”,” 8/17/09 http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cif-green/2009/aug/17/environment-climate-changeMkoo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the first observation, this follows: even if you are hardened to the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
of the involuntary failure of industrial civilisation is also to succumb to denial.//

**Growth __improves__ the environment**
**Bhagwati, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jagdish N., </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Columbia University, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economics Department</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“In Defense of Globalization,” Oxford University Press, pg. 144-145, Tashma)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>__as development occurs, economies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> typically </span>__shift from primary production, which__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">were somewhat aghast at this erroneous, ideological interpretation of their research findings. </span>
===2AC Add-ons=== 
====Water Wars==== 
**Free trade vital to solve water shortages; arguments to the contrary misinterpret the function of trade**
**Hoekstra et al, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– professor at Twente Water Centre, University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands (A.Y. Hoekstra, M.M. ALDAYA, Consultant, United Nations Environment Programme, Paris, France, B. Avril, European Science Foundation, Strasbourg, France, “ ACCOUNTING FOR WATER SCARCITY AND POLLUTION IN THE RULES OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE,” VALUE OF WATER RESEARCH REPORT SERIES NO. 54, 2011, [[http://www.waterfootprint.org/Reports/Report54-Proceedings-ESF-Workshop-Water-Trade.pdf]], //JPL)</span>
__There is another deep connection between trade, water and climate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ricardian comparative advantages (for more, see below Table 7.1)</span>
====Natural Disasters==== 
**The plan is essential to effective natural disaster evacuations**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">MARAD, 11 </span>– the agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation dealing with waterborne transportation (Maritime Administration, “America’s Marine Highway - Report to Congress –“, United States Department of Transportation, April 2011, [[http://img.marinelink.com/pdf/Americas_Marine_Highway-Report_to_Congress-April_2011.pdf]] | AK)

Improved Response and Recovery <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A transportation system that offers resiliency and affordable systems redundancy can </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">deterrent to terrorist attacks by limiting the duration and scale of intended disruptions</span>.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The racist refusal to allow evacuation is unjustifiable – plan solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Morse 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Racial discrimination in transportation extended to pedestrian traffic</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">as well. Four days after the </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">America agreed that the storm pointed out persistent problems of racial inequality. 214</span>__

=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===China CCS CP=== 
====**1NC China CCS CP vs. MagLev (Greenwood Cason/Logan)**==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should invest in carbon capture and sequestration technology with the People’s Republic of China**

**CCS certainty is key to US-China cooperation— That solves China war**
Peter <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Drahos</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor in Law and the Director of the Centre for the Governance of Knowledge and Development in the Regulatory Institutions Network (RegNet), College of Asia and the Pacific, at the Australian National University, Canberra. He currently holds a Chair in Intellectual Property at Queen Mary, University of London, 09, [“The China-US Relationship on Climate Change, ¶ Intellectual Property and CCS: Requiem for a ¶ Species,” Queen Mary University of London, School of Law ¶ Legal Studies Research Paper No. 36/2009, [[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1504246]]] E. Liu</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are three distinct international regimes that the US and China have to think¶ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">less true of old world clubs¶ like the IEA and the OECD.</span>

**Specifically, it solves CCP instability— Clean coal is key to social benefits, equality, environmental legitimacy, and perception of prosperity**
David **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wendt</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">co-founded the Jackson Hole Center for Global Affairs in 2002 and has ¶ been its president since that time, leader in a U.S. bicentennial program on global interdependence at the World ¶ Affairs Council of Philadelphia (1975-77); a program on global health, population, and ¶ environmental issues at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in ¶ Washington, D.C. (1977-98); and the international program of Idaho State University, in ¶ Pocatello, Idaho (1998-2006), 8-08, [“CLEAN COAL: ¶ U.S.-CHINA COOPERATION ¶ IN ENERGY SECURITY,” EastWest Institute, [[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=104337]]] E. Liu</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A very different approach toward the pricing of environmental externalities will ¶ be needed if </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
a shared energy future but also of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">shared perceptions of economic ¶ prosperity</span>.

====**1NR Solvency**==== 
**Technology exists now– can begin capture immediately and sequestration is currently economical**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller et al 9</span>** – PhD, Associate Director, Energy Institute Senior Research Associate Energy Fuels
Bruce, “Eliminating CO2 Emissions from Coal-Fired Power Plants,” in Generating Electricity in a Carbon-Constrained World, Google Book
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Underground injection of CO2 is feasible today</span> at an affordable price. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thus, there </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
it is clear that these could also be decarbonized in a similar manner.

**CCS injection provides enough gas for over 200 years**
Hongguan **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yua</span>**, School of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Shandong University of Science and Technology, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">et al.,</span> Guangzhu Zhou, Weitang Fan, Jianping Ye, 11-29-**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06,</span>** [“Predicted CO2enhanced coalbed methane recovery¶ and CO2sequestration in China,” International Journal of Coal Geology 71 (2007) 345–357, [[http://www.math.oregonstate.edu/~mpesz/download/coal/Yu_2007ECBM_CHINA.pdf]]] E. Liu
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(1) </span>The factors obtained with <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">technical analysis</span> and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>basic case assumptions are reasonable and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">can </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">(2) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
(3) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">potential obtained by</span> primary <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">production of CBM¶ </span>and enhanced CBM using CO2injection.

===Privatization CP=== 
====**1NC Privates CP vs. MagLev (Greenwood Cason/Logan)**==== 
**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over MagLev rail to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on MagLev rail to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in MagLev rail**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership of MagLev rail to the private sector.**



**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]

Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing The U.S. economy needs infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, but </span>state<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">traffic control system, as Canada has done with very favorable results.31 </span>

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic Studies Program at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)DH
Do the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">current </span>problems with the transportation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> system </span>suggest that the nation should find a
AND
a new approach to transportation policy that could significantly improve the system’s performance.


**2 net benefits –**

**1. productivity – federal planning undermines productivity because it can’t accurately respond to price signals. Private decision making more efficiently allocates resources tailored to economic need**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the description of today's hearing, the committee asked how infrastructure helps to promote </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 billion for housing, and $3.5 billion for airports.</span>

**2. Innovation – federal planning doesn’t accurately target infrastructure development to best meet economic need – mismanagement deepens economic problems**
**Norcross and Sautet, 9** – both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Eileen and Frederic, “THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT: Will More Public Spending Pave the Way to a Better Infrastructure?” SSRN)DH

Infrastructure development is not the cause of economic growth, but rather a consequence.
AND
Consumers don’t obtain what they need and don’t pay for what they consume.
===Geoengineering CP=== 
====**1NC Geoengineering CP**==== 

**Text<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: </span>The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should adopt a policy that dismisses sulfate aerosols into the stratosphere to enhance the quasi-cooling mechanism as per the climate model CM2.**


**CP solves warming-volcanoes prove**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Stenchikov et al ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ]L.; Ramaswamy, V.; Delworth, T. L.; Stouffer, R. J. Use of Volcanic Eruptions as a Natural Analog for Evaluating Effectsof Stratospheric Geoengineering on the Hydrological Cycle, OceanHeat Content, and Sea Level American Geophysical Union, Fall Meeting 2008, abstract #U41E-06]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Large-scale human intervention into natural systems</span>**__, geoengineering, is considered as a__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__quasi-permanent cooling from geoengineering aerosols penetrate into the deep ocean__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Disads== 
===Steel Tradeoff DA=== 
====**1NC Steel DA**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A. Uniqueness— China’s steel production and market output is growing – </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">infrastructure</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is key </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ 5/28</span>** [Wall Street Journal, Liam Denning, “Steeling for a Chinese slowdown” May 28, 2012, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/wall-street-journal/steeling-for-a-chinese-slowdown/story-fnay3x58-1226369452287]], accessed 6/24/12]
China's steel industry has churned out more than two million tonnes a day so far
AND
forward growth, and analysts are predicting more spending on social housing too.

**The steel for __federal__ transportation projects is legally required to come from the U.S.**
**Department of Transportation 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Current list of provisions of the Buy America Act, 14 December 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dot.gov/buyamerica/buy_america_.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Section 1605 – Buy American (100</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-U.S. Agreement on Government Procurement) do not apply. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That massively dents China’s growing market share, the backbone of Chinese economic growth </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Haley, ‘9</span>** – George T., PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven, “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” March 24, 2009, http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar industries had on U.S. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. based </span>capacity<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and shifted production and employment overseas to remain price competitive. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Stalled Chinese growth causes CCP lashout** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Shirk, ‘7</span>.** director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation and Ho Miu Lam professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs (Susan, Fragile China, pg 3).
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">As China’s leaders well know, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the greatest political risk lying ahead of them is </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">because from their point of view not lashing out might endanger Party rule.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Lashout would include nuclear and bio weapons </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Renxing, ‘5** (San, The Epoch Times "The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed", 8/5, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it would not be surprising </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">to cling to life. That is the main theme of the speeches.</span>
===Obama Good DA=== 
====**1NC Obama Good**==== 

**A. Uniqueness— Obama will win, but it’s close— polls are tightening in key swing states**
**Blumenthal 10/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Blumenthal (senior polling editor) 10/3/2012 HUFFINGTON POST “Presidential Polls show Tightening in Florida and Virgina” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/03/presidential-polls-florida-virginia_n_1935206.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As President Barack Obama and Republican nominee Mitt Romney prepare to face off in their </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">three percentage points. Virginia remains in the "lean Obama" range.</span>

**B. Link— Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay**
**Alden 6/14—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, (Edward, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6/14/12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]</span>
__Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

**Public hates space programs**
**Conley’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Conley, University of Florida-Department of Political Science “The Perils of Presidential Leadership on Space policy: The Politics of congressional budgeting for NASA” http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1642810)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although public support for NASA has generally been strong (Launius 2003), the segment </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__narrow community which does not garner much public, hence political, support.”__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**C. Internal Link— Obama will get the blame**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Polman 6/13** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dick Polman, staff to Columbia Dispatch, “GOP Strategy: Block Obama then Blame Him,” 6/13/12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/editorials/2012/06/13/gop-strategy-block-obama-then-blame-him.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) NA </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Republicans’ 2012 election strategy is perversely brilliant: Sabotage President Barack Obama’s job-__
__AND__
__only congressional Republicans hadn’t dynamited it.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yes, sabotage indeed was required</span>__.__
__Republicans knew their prospects for beating Obama would be damaged if they signed on to__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Give it to me.” Fairly or not, he has it. </span>

**D. Impact— Romney election results in Iran strikes --- Obama reelection defuses the situation with diplomacy**
**Daily Kos**, **4/16** (President Obama versus Romney on Iran, p. [[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Approach to foreign policy: </span>Romney<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> says he will “not apologize” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, without bragging, and scaring the American people with needless terrorism alerts. </span>

**Iran Israel war causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsch 5 - Professor @ UC San Diego</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration has put together all the elements it needs to justify the impending </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">of the Hiroshima bomb, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">enough to erase Earth's population many times over. </span>__

===**Weaponization DA**=== 
====**1NC Weaponization DA**==== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**

**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details.</span>

**Increasing Space Elevators will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])

**Cooperation for contested and competitive domain.** __The NSP also recommits us to cooperate in__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">space to active leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations</span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China’s</span>__
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

==Critiques== 

==Procedurals== 
===1NC T- Space Elevators=== 
**Interpretation- “Transportation” is limited to six modes, including aviation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kahn 6</span> (Ely, Director for Cybersecurity Policy at the National Security Staff – White House, and Roger Shoemaker, “Transportation Sector Specific Plan”, Chemical Security Summit, 6-28, http://www.ppt2txt.com/r/f892b8c5/)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>Transportation Sector<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is a vast, far-reaching</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, complex and diverse </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">network </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4 trillion revenue ton-miles; 8 Class 1 and 552 additional firms</span>

**Specifically, “Aviation” takes place only within the atmosphere. “Space” is a different sector.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vogt 12</span> (Crystal, MS in Journalism – Boston University and BA in English – University of California, Santa Barbara, “The Difference Between the Aviation Industry and the Aerospace Industry”, Houston Chronicle, http://smallbusiness.chron.com/difference-between-aviation-industry-aerospace-industry-26208.html)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Though there is some overlap between the aviation and aerospace industries, there are </span>key
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on aircraft operation, commercial or military aircraft design and air traffic management.</span>
==Case Negs== 
===Bentonville vs. Greenwood Cason/Logan (MagLev Rail)=== 
====**1NC STEM**==== 

**No risk of economic collapse or loss of competitiveness**
**Koba 11** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">9/12, *Mark Koba is a Senior Editor at CNBC.com, “American Economic Decline? Exaggerated,” http://www.cnbc.com/id/44271677/American_Economic_Decline_Exaggerated, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With a recent ratings downgrade, chronic unemployment, a growing budget deficit and a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">percent increase in GDP is more than the entire GDP of many countries</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." </span>

**93 crises prove** **no war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller ‘00</span> (Morris, Economist, Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Administration – University of Ottawa, Former Executive Director and Senior Economist – World Bank, “Poverty as a Cause of Wars?”, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Winter, p. 273)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question may be reformulated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Do wars spring from**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a popular reaction to a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another).</span>

**Multiple alt causes---economic collapse is inevitable**
**NY Times 6/19** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2012, “Mid-Year Outlook from BlackRock’s Russ Koesterich: Turmoil in Europe, Prospect of “Fiscal Cliff” in U.S. Will Keep Investors on “Rocky Road” for Rest of 2012,” http://markets.on.nytimes.com/research/stocks/news/press_release.asp?docTag=201206190800BIZWIRE_USPRXBW5584&feedID=600&press_symbol=62690, AJ</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Jun. 19, 2012-- </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In 2012’s second half, **investors will face “a rocky road”** compared with the year’s first few months, with the **potential “fiscal cliff” in the U.S. as well as Europe’s ongoing turmoil both posing risk to a still weak global recovery**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,’</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> according to Russ Koesterich, Global Chief Investment Strategist for BlackRock’s (NYSE:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as an opportunity to add to longer-term positions in emerging markets.” </span>

====1NC Warming==== 
**Warming is natural**
**Bast and Taylor 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *CEO of the Heartland Institute, author of Rebuilding America’s Schools (1990), Why We Spend Too Much on Health Care (1992) Eco-Sanity: A Common-Sense Guide to Environmentalism (1994) Education & Capitalism (2003), Climate Change Reconsidered (2009), and The Patriot’s Toolbox (2010, rev. ed. 2011), **managing editor of Environment & Climate News, Senior Fellow for The Heartland Institute, bachelors degree from Dartmouth College and law degree from the Syracuse University College of Law, (Joseph and James, “Global Warming: Not a Crisis,” The Heartland Institute, 8/2/11, http://heartland.org/ideas/global-warming-not-crisis) //PC** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Natural or Man-Made? </span>__The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">), </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">can explain more than a small amount of the climate change we witness.</span>**

**No extinction**
**NIPCC 11**** (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. <span style="color: black;">http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html)KG</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper published in Systematics and Biodiversity, Willis et al. (2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__the fossil record indicates remarkable biotic resilience to wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."__
====**1NR Warming**==== 

**No warming now, alt causes, and its cyclical**
**Happer** 3/27/**12** – professor of physics at Princeton (William, “Global Warming Models are Wrong Again” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304636404577291352882984274.html]], PZ)
__What is happening to global temperatures in reality? The answer is: almost nothing__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">temperatures—Feynman has told us what conclusions to draw about the theory.</span>

**Alt Causes – cosmic rays**
**Spencer, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Roy Spencer, principal research scientist for University of Alabama in Huntsville. In the past, he has served as Senior Scientist for Climate Studies at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, where here he directed research into the development and application of satellite passive microwave remote sensing techniques for measuring global temperature, water vapor, and precipitation. He currently is the U.S. Science Team Leader for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer (AMSR-E) on NASA's Aqua satellite. Dr. Spencer is the recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement and the American Meteorological Society's Special Award for his satellite-based temperature monitoring work. He is the author of numerous scientific articles that have appeared in Science, Nature, Journal of Climate, Monthly Weather Review, Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology, Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology, Remote Sensing Reviews, Advances in Space Research, and Climatic Change. “Indirect Solar Forcing of Climate by Galactic Cosmic Rays: An Observational Estimate,” [[http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=950]] Accessed 6/20/12 BJM </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Note: GCR = galactic cosmic ray</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SUMMARY What the above three plots show is that </span>__for a 1,000 count__
__AND__
__have a profound impact on future projections of human-caused global warming.__

**More ev – empirics disprove CO2 causes warming**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also answers sulfur emissions caused cooling</span>
**Easterbrook 2011 – geology professor emeritus at Western Washington University (Don, Evidence Based Climate Science, [[http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=%22warming%22+%22natural+causes%22&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q|http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq="warming"+"natural+causes"&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q]], , PZ)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The news media has bombarded the public with countless pictures of melting glaciers as proof </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**
**__. The cause had to be something other than__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either </span>__CO2__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or sulFur. </span>**

**CO2 emissions not main cause of warming, water vapor is**
**Easterbrook 2011**** – geology professor emeritus at Western Washington University (Don, Evidence Based Climate Science, [[http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=%22warming%22+%22natural+causes%22&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q|http://books.google.com/bookshl=en&lr=&id=h7Nyq8lV8R4C&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq="warming"+"natural+causes"&ots=swJTilM0ny&sig=L6P2iGmpa2KjudsK_K7JYX7dObw#v=onepage&q]], , PZ)
__No tangible, physical evidence exists that proves a cause-and-effect relation__
__AND__
__, showing that climatic warming caused CO2 to rise, not vice versa.__

===Bentonville vs. Rogers Kuppeler/Partner (Space Elevators)=== 
====**1NC Air Pollution**==== 
**Too many alt causes to solve – can’t touch the quals of this card**
**Brook et al, 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert D., MD, Associate Professor at the Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan *AND Barry A. Franklin, PhD, Director of the Cardiac Rehabilitation Program and Exercise Laboratories, William Beaumont Hospital, Professor of Physiology, Wayne State University, School of Medicine, *AND Wayne Cascio, MD, Former Director of Cardiovascular Research at the Center for Environmental Medicine, Asthma and Lung Biology at UNC Chapel Hill, Former Medical Director of the Clinical Electrocardiography Laboratory at the University of North Carolina Hospitals, *AND Yuling Hong, MD, PhD, Associate Director for Science, Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, National Institutes of Health, *AND George Howard, PhD, Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Alabama–Birmingham, *AND Michael Lipsett, MD, Chief of the Environmental Health Investigations Branch, California Department of Public Health, *AND Russell Luepker, MD, Mayo Professor of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, *AND Murray Mittleman, MD, ScD, Associate Professor in the Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Harvard University, *AND Jonathan Samet, MD, founding director of the USC Institute for Global Health, Flora L. Thornton Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine of the Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, *AND Sidney C. Smith Jr, MD, professor of medicine and director of the Academic Center for Cardiovascular Disease, University of North Carolina, *AND Ira Tager, MD, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology, University of California Berkeley, June 1, 2004, “Air Pollution and Cardiovascular Disease,” American Heart Association, http://circ.ahajournals.org/content/109/21/2655.full, Hensel)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A brief description of several individual air pollutants is provided first for background. A </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).</span>

**Air pollution’s inevitable – other countries’ pollution cancels out any improvement we make**
**Watson, 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Traci – USA Today staff writer, citing David Parrish, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, citing Daniel Jacob, Vasco McCoy Family Professor of Atmospheric Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Center for the Environment, Harvard University, citing David Streets, environmental scientist at Argonne National Laboratory, citing Daniel Jaffe, Professor of Atmospheric and Environmental Chemistry at the University of Washington-Bothell, March 14, 2005, “Air pollution from other countries drifts into USA,” USA Today, http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2005-03-13-pollution-_x.htm, Hensel)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Americans drive imported cars, wear imported clothes and chug imported beers. Now scientists </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__bird's-eye view of clouds of pollution drifting from continent to continent__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**No Health Risk**
**Schwartz, 03** (Joel, adjunct scholar at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, April 2003, “Particulate Air Pollution: Weighing the Risks,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Joel%20Schwartz%20-%20Particulate%20Air%20Pollution%20Weighing%20the%20Risks.pdf, Hensel)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonetheless, both the Bush Administration and congressional Democrats have proposed </span>__sweeping new measures to__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__the standard__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will be expensive, but </span>__is unlikely to improve public health__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Specific Strategies== 
===**Bentonville**=== 
**(With Sam Bennett)**
Well.. Seeing as this was in-state debate... 2NR's were mostly just "errehthang"
Ask if you've got any specific questions

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]