=Aff= 
[[toc]]
=Asia-Pacific Advantage= 

**Advantage one is the Asian - Pacific:**
**US hegemony in Asia collapsing now- increasing capabilities key.**
**Dobbins 8/14** (Ambassador James Dobbins directs the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the nonprofit, nonpartisan RAND Corporation. The Diplomat. “Conflict with China: What It Would Look Like, How to Avoid It” [[http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/08/14/conflict-with-china-what-it-would-look-like-how-to-avoid-it/]], 14 August 2012, JGR)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the next 20 years, </span>China’s <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> second-strongest power.</span>

**China is modernizing its navy to gain an asymmetric advantage against US naval forces.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">O’Rourke 6/14</span> (Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs. Congressional Research Service. “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf]], 14 June 2012, JGR)

DOD and other … moving ships<span class="Underline"> at sea.</span>

**Joint seabasing is key to Asia-Pacific stability – current efforts fail.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Corleto 11</span> (Lieutenant Colonel Joseph R. Corleto, United States Army. Army War College. “Future Joint Seabasing In The Asia-Pacific Region” [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a553114.pdf]], 2011)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Where access is limited or … </span> promote regional stability.

**Independently, the squo’s shift of marines from Okinawa to Guam kills US power in the region – only the plan solves.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tangredi 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sam J. Tangredi is a regional director of the planning/consulting firm Strategic Insight Ltd. A retired U.S. Navy captain, while on active duty he was, along with operational billets, the head of the Strategy and Concepts Branch of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and director of strategic planning and business development for the Navy International Programs Office. Naval War College Review. “SEA BASING Concept, Issues, and Recommendations” [[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]], Autumn 2011, JGR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span><span class="Underline">there … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">an unmoving land base.</span>

**The impact is multiple scenarios for nuclear war and collapse of overall primacy**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Goh 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The centrality of these … appear to be much worse.</span>

**Ceding Taiwan to China kills heg.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunkovic 9</span> (Lee J. Hunkovic. American Military University. “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America” [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]], 2009, JGR)

The U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>occupies … over is unacceptable.
**Heg solves global nuclear war**
**Barnett, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor @ Naval War College, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Events in Libya are a …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the geometry to come.</span>


=Navy Advantage= 
**Advantage Two is Navy:**
**We’ll isolate three internal links:**
**1) Littoral conflict is inevitable and escalatory – seabasing allows US to deter and project power.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Krulak 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(C. C. Krulak General, U.S. Marine Corps Commandant of the Marine Corps. Headquarters Marine Corps. “Operational Maneuver from the Sea” [[http://www.dtic.mil/jv2010/usmc/omfts.pdf]], 2010, JGR)</span>

<span class="Underline">In the future, </span>the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> entire spectrum of armed threats.</span>

**Plan creates unique form of power projection that deters conflict.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tangredi 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sam J. Tangredi is a regional director of the planning/consulting firm Strategic Insight Ltd. A retired U.S. Navy captain, while on active duty he was, along with operational billets, the head of the Strategy and Concepts Branch of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and director of strategic planning and business development for the Navy International Programs Office. Naval War College Review. “SEA BASING Concept, Issues, and Recommendations” [[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/d49d4281-7790-435d-9b3f-c7df59fb1544/Sea-Basing--Concept,-Issues,-and-Recommendations]], Autumn 2011, JGR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As mentioned earlier, a … </span><span class="Underline"> under international law.</span>

**2)The plan solves for ship building – that’s key to navy effectiveness.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">O’Rourke 6/14</span> (Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs. Congressional Research Service. “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf]], 14 June 2012, JGR)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Navy’s shipbuilding<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program </span><span class="Underline">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for this new vessel. (Page 158) </span>

**That’s key to overall naval power.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NLUS 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Navy League of the United States. Since 1902, the NLUS has sought to provide a stronger sea voice to Congress and to the American people. “America’s Maritime Industry The foundation of American seapower.” [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/americas-maritime-industry.pdf]], 7 May 2012)</span>

<span class="Underline">The American Maritime Industry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … maintaining U.S. maritime superiority.</span>

**3) Regional alliances**
**Seabasing is used now to police maritime commons but the US is not involved.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parker 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Commander Gregory J. Parker, USN Federal Executive Fellow at Brookings. Greg graduated from the United States Naval Academy with a B.S. in physics. He subsequently received an M.S. in applied physics from Johns Hopkins University and an M.Phil. in history and philosophy of science from Cambridge University, England. “Seabasing Since the Cold War Maritime Reflections of American Grand Strategy” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/6/30%20seabasing%20parker/0630_seabasing_parker]], 2010, JGR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To a limited degree, </span><span class="Underline">the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> hold along the strait.”53</span>

**The plan promotes modular alliances and protects maritime commons.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parker 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Commander Gregory J. Parker, USN Federal Executive Fellow at Brookings. Greg graduated from the United States Naval Academy with a B.S. in physics. He subsequently received an M.S. in applied physics from Johns Hopkins University and an M.Phil. in history and philosophy of science from Cambridge University, England. “Seabasing Since the Cold War Maritime Reflections of American Grand Strategy” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/6/30%20seabasing%20parker/0630_seabasing_parker]], 2010, JGR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is within this worldview … </span> modular<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> concept of </span>alliances<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Regional threats key to solve**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hoyt 6</span> (Dr. Timothy D. Hoyt, Professor of Strategy and Policy, U.S. Naval War College. “The United States and Maritime Strategy: A Parochial View from Newport” [[http://www.usnwc.edu/Departments---Colleges/National-Security-Decision-Making/Ruger-Economic-Papers/RugerPaper2Web.aspx]], 6 November 2006, JGR)

Regional powers<span class="Underline"> can …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">seemingly pervasive global internet.</span>

**Now the impacts:**

**The US Navy is key to heg and the global economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Eaglen and McGrath ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mackenzie Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy, “Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy”, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]], May 16, 2011, LEQ/JGR) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America is a maritime …</span><span class="underline0"> that break on its shores. </span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Economic decline causes extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Royal ‘10</span> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods …considered ancillary to those views.</span>


**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collapse of American credibility turns every impact in the debate</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kagan ‘11</span> (The Price of Power The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18 • By ROBERT KAGAN Robert Kagan is a contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution.

__• American forces deployed in East … **table will not fall over.**__


=Solvency= 

**Current seabasing is insufficient – investment is key now.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parker 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Commander Gregory J. Parker, USN Federal Executive Fellow at Brookings. Greg graduated from the United States Naval Academy with a B.S. in physics. He subsequently received an M.S. in applied physics from Johns Hopkins University and an M.Phil. in history and philosophy of science from Cambridge University, England. “Seabasing Since the Cold War Maritime Reflections of American Grand Strategy” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/6/30%20seabasing%20parker/0630_seabasing_parker]], 2010)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After twenty years of … policy back to sea.</span>

**The plan increases mobility and adaptability of the Navy.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parker 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Commander Gregory J. Parker, USN Federal Executive Fellow at Brookings. Greg graduated from the United States Naval Academy with a B.S. in physics. He subsequently received an M.S. in applied physics from Johns Hopkins University and an M.Phil. in history and philosophy of science from Cambridge University, England. “Seabasing Since the Cold War Maritime Reflections of American Grand Strategy” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/6/30%20seabasing%20parker/0630_seabasing_parker]], 2010, JGR)</span>

<span class="Underline">Seabasing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, therefore, </span><span class="Underline">cannot …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Corps doctrinal concepts. </span>

**Current land bases are insufficient, cause backlash, and kill readiness.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">O’Rourke 6/14</span> (Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs. Congressional Research Service. “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33153.pdf]], 14 June 2012, JGR)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, Washington appears … </span> the utility of their presence<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Modular sea-basing allows a mere restructuring of current capabilities, not development of new ones.**
**Parker 10.** (Cmdr. Gregory J. Parker is a career naval aviator and recent Federal Executive Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He works on the OPNAV (Navy) staff at the Pentagon. The views expressed here are the author’s own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Navy or Defense Department. “The future of seabasing: Moving beyond the post-Cold War unilateral approach.” December 2010. [[http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2010/12/4997685/|__http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2010/12/4997685/__]] ps)

**__So what is the right … employing what already exists.__**


=Plan= 
**Plan: The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase necessary investment in the United States for its seabasing transportation infrastructure.**