[[toc]]
====If you have any questions email colinag5@gmail.com or xon1202@gmail.com==== 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac]]Katrina 1ac</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Neolib Advantage]]Neolib Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime that looked on as thousands perished, reflective of a fascist machine where democracy is lost.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux, 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hurricane Katrina may … lost its claims” (2005, 122,124).</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberal urban planning creates areas of concentrated poverty that create zones of conflict, discrimination and suffering.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goonewardena 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([Kanishka Goonewardena, teaches planning, urban design and critical theory in the Department of Geography at the University of Toronto: The Future of Planning at the ' End of History ', Planning Theory Vol. 2, Issue 3. Date: 11/2003 Pages: 183-224,</span><span class="wiki_link_ext" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/2/3/183]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Accessed: July 17th 2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If on closer … of neoliberal globalization (Bourdieu et al., 1999).</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberal economic thought fails to take into account non-monetary costs and overlooks human suffering</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bourdieu 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Pierre Bourdieu, French sociologist, anthropologist, and philosopher: Acts of Resistance: Against the Tyranny of the Market, pages 39-40 </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed July 17th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In short, globalization … acts of violence.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rejecting the neoliberal influence in urban planning is a critical step to achieving social goods.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hickel 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Jason Hickel, New Left Project: A Short History of Neoliberalism (And How We Can Fix It),[[http://www.newleftproject.org/index.php/site/article_comments/a_short_history_of_neoliberalism_and_how_we_can_fix_it]]</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed: July 24th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But – perhaps most … and collectively ratified.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Structural violence is the biggest impact, causes more deaths than nuclear war –nuclear extinction evidence is unvalidated and overblown, this re-entrenches the underpinnings of neoliberal thinking.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin 84</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Dr. Brian Martin, physicist, resource associate in Faculty of Science, SANA Update (Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter), number 16, May 1984, pp. 5-6: Extinction politics, [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html]]</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed: July 25th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The possibility of … underlying extinction politics.</span>//
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Racism Advantage]]Racism Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that leads to democratic deliberation and political action. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability and racism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux, 2006</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – (Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biopolitics is not … face of death.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Race, poverty, and a lack of cars made Katrina a display of institutional racism and means that evacuation infrastructure is necessary</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wailoo et al. 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A landmark decision … many inner-city neighborhoods.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism is the root cause of transportation inequalities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pastor et al. 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” [[http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How consequential is … we now turn.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Institutional racism caused Katrina to be a tragedy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sanchez and Brenman 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Thomas W. Sanchez, PhD, Director and Associate Professor Urban Affairs and Planning Program Virginia Tech – Alexandria Center. Marc Brenman Executive Director Washington State Human Rights Commission Transportation Equity And Environmental Justice: Lessons From Hurricane Katrina [[http://www.ejconference.net/images/Sanchez_Brenman.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The substantially adverse … second-class citizens.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Minorities and low income people are transportation disadvantaged which leads to them dying in disasters</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GAO 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The evacuation of … may require assistance.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ignoring structural racism plays into the façade of white ethics- perpetuates racism through constant, seemingly normal policing, without recognizing the evil of the system</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martinot and Sexton 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- (*prof at San Francisco State University PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine (Steve and Jared, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” [[http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm]]</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MGD))</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They prowl, categorizing … of civil procedures.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s not just about New Orleans—Katrina highlighted the pervasive suffering caused by racialized poverty everywhere.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luft 2009</span>** //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**–**</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Associate Professor, Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara (Rachel, “Beyond Disaster Exceptionalism: Social Movement Developments in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina” American Quarterly, Volume 61, Number 3, September 2009,[[http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.477.pdf]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Traditionally, scholars have … a fresh start.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism outweighs every impact – it’s the precondition to ethical political decision making.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Memmi 2000</span>** //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**–**</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The struggle against … stakes are irresistible.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Levinas argues for … the liberal state.</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">** (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since ‘it is … wants to secure.</span>//
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its evacuation infrastructure in the United States, starting with New Orleans.</span>**
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another hurricane is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Telegraph 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Francis Harris in Washington, “City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high” 01 Sep 2005[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html]] Herm)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For decades, New … They weren't enough.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New Orleans evacuation plans still lack ways for the car-less to escape</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Renne et al., 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The objective of … and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).</span>


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Wolshon, 06** – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”,[[http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although little can … Louisiana and elsewhere.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES Katrina–like disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morse 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – (senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008,[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The American transportation … care and treatment.</span>//


==Michigan== 
**(cards added to solvency)**

**Erosion makes even <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">small</span> hurricanes breach New Orleans**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Telegraph 2</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">005</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> - </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Francis Harris in Washington) “City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high” 01 Sep 2005 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html Herm</span>
//Founded by the ... and perhaps alligators".//


**A federal response is the only ethical route. We need to recognize our collective responsibility to vulnerable populations.**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giroux, 2006 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//</span>
In a May ... of a flood.//
=Negative= 
we will post specific evidence by request
==Niles== 
Round 2 (port security)
T- its
Security K
Counter terror cp
Elections da

Round 4 (Mass Transit)
T- Vehicles
Elections
Utopia K
States CP

Round 5 (NIB)
T - Capital investment
States CP
Elections
Security K

Octas (Arctic Ports)
Security K
States CP
Elections DA
T Maintenance

==Greenhill== 
Round 1 (no plan text k aff)
Utopia K
Framework
Cap Good

Round 4 (Natives)
T- Jurisdiction
Utopia K
States CP
Elections DA

Round 6 (Disabilities)
Cap K
Utopia K
States
Elections DA


==New Trier== 
Round 2 (Port Security)
T monitoring
States CP
Elections (Obama good)
Security K

Round 4 (Port Security)
T monitoring
Counter terror CP
Elections (Obama good)
Security K

Round 6 (Port Security)
T monitoring
Counter terror CP
Elections (Obama good)
Security K

Doubles (NIB)
T infrastructure
States CP
elections(Obama good)
Cap K

==CR Wash== 
Round 2 (NIB)
T infrastucture
States CP
Elections DA
Security K

Round 4 (port dredging)
NEPA CP
Security K
Elections DA
T maintenance

Round 5 ("On the road"/D&G K aff)
Repressed Desire K
Personal Pronouns PIC
Co-option DA
Framework

Octas (port dredging)
Security K
Advatage CP
Elections DA
T maintenance


==Michigan== 
Round 2 (HSR)
T vehicles
security K
Business activities tax CP
Fiscal cliff DA
Case D
Oil advantage turns

round 3 (CCS)
T infrastructure
Consumption K
Fiscal cliff DA
Farm Sequestration CP
Case D

Round 6 (Title XI)
T water
Schmidt K
Shipbuilding CP & SOA CP (read as plank)
NEPA CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Case D

Triples (military roads)
T military
Fiscal Cliff DA
Deterrence K
F35 Trade-off DA
FCS Offsets CP
GPR process CP
Case D
==Dowling== 
Round 1 (port security)
Counter Terror CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Security K
T monitoring

Round 4 (OPRF)
Cap K
Decrease CP
Utopia K
Schmidt K
Framework

Round 5 (NIB)
Cap K
Fiscal Cliff DA
States CP
T Direct Investment








[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]