[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Contention 1 is Inherency
**The topic of transportation focuses on the "infrastructure investment" that lavishes billions and billions of dollars for the privileged White, while ignoring the minority.**
Karyn **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rotker</span>**, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>** (Attorney of Law, Poverty & Race 16.5, " Transportation: Regional Equity & Environmental Justice", http://search.proquest.com/docview/210339531 :)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> August, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a bridge on an interstate highway came crashing down</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> during rush hour in Minneapolis. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Commentators seized upon the disasteras a sign of the need for moregovernment spendingon infrastructure</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">But </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">conversations about "infrastructure" routinely focus on building, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">maintaining and expanding highways</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">treating public transit as an afterthought at best</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">For decades, the federal government</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (and many state governments) have lavished billions upon billions of dollars on highway construction, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">while funding for mass transit lags far behind</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The neglect of transit is discriminatory...</span>


**Hence the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its public transportation infrastructure investment towards low-income residents in the United States.**




**Contention 2 is The Racist Regime**




**The current state of transportation yields two major problems -**


**First is the racist planning of urban cities and its transportation that benefits the whites only.**

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>**, Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>**, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (__[[#|City Planning]]__), Geographic __[[#|Information Systems Training]]__ Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 3-5 :)


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">__[[#|Transportation systems]]__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned and, in many cases, planned poorly</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">when it comes to people of color</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Conscious decisionsdetermine</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">locationof freeways</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">bus stops</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">fueling stations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and train stations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">...</span>



**This type of racial planning isolates the minorities into ruins to die from air pollution, and steals the little that they have.**

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>**, Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>**, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an __[[#|Associate]]__ Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic __[[#|Information Systems Training]]__ Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Pg 182-194 :)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A 2001 Surface Transportation Policy Project (STPP) and Center for Neighborhood Technology (CNT) report, Driven to Spend, found that sprawl drives up transportation costs for American families." The study analyzed government data on consumer expenditures, ranking twenty-eight major metro areas by the portion of the family budget devoted to daily transportation costs, and discovered that the metropolitan areas where transportation takes the biggest bite out of the __[[#|household budget]]__ are Houston, Atlanta, Dallas—Fort Worth, Miami, and Detroit. The average __[[#|Houstonian]]__ used 22 cents out of every dollar spent on transportation or $8,840 each year on transportation. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Essentially, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">heavy government investment in road infrastructure is contributing to an increase in household transportation costs. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is especially harmful to low-income householdsespecially African Americansand Latinos</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">who are disproportionately represented in the lower income categorywhospend more of their income on transportation costs than whites</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">More cars and increased traffic congestion mean more air pollution. Automobile exhaust combineswith heat and sunlight to create ozone</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">an airborne gas harmful to individuals</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, particularly those with breathing difficulties. Air pollution from vehicle emissions causes significant amounts of illness, hospitalization, and premature death...</span>


====**Specifically, 70,000 people will die each year due to the smog, the state appears to be more dedicated to car culture than to providing livable communities for the urban poor.**==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robert D. </span>**//Bullard//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, </span>**//2005//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (All Transit Is Not Created Equal, Moving the Movement for Transportation Justice Vol. 12 No. 1 Winter, http://urbanhabitat.org/node/306)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation-related sources account for over 30 percent of the primary smog-forming pollutants emitted and 28 percent of the fine particulates. Vehicle emissions are the main reason </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">why 121 Air Quality Districts in the U.S. are in noncompliance with the 1970 Clean Air Act's National Ambient Air Quality Standards</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Over 140 million Americans, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">25 percent of them children, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">live, work, and play in areas where air quality does not meet national standards</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.[8] Emissions from cars, trucks, and buses cause 25 to 51 percent of the air pollution in the nation's non-attainment areas. Transportation related emissions also generate more than a quarter of the greenhouse gases.[9] </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Improvements in transportation investments and air quality are of special significance to low-income persons and people of color who are more likely to live in areas with reduced air quality...</span>


**Transportation racism is the cornerstone of oppression.**

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>**, Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>,** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 2 :)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2 HIGHWAY ROBBERY the role transportation plays in shaping human interaction, economic mobility, and sustainability. From New York City to Los Angeles. and a host of cities in between, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">people of color are banding together to challenge unfair</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, unjust, and illegal </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">transportation policies</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and practices that relegate them to the back of the bus...</span>


**This type of oppression dates back to the first moments of genocide and domination.**

Gretchen E. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schafft</span>,** 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>** (Social Anthropoligist, "From Racism to Genocide" page 200-202, :)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What Is Race? Discussing the early beliefs about race without first clarifying the latest think-ing about this concept could lead to misconceptions. Most people still mis-takenly believe, for instance, that each of us belongs to a definable race. Skin color, hair type, shape of facial features, and physique are associated with the idea of race in the minds of many people</span>


**Second, Transportation in the status quo disconnects the minorities from job opportunities**.

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>**, Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>**, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 16-17 :)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In June 1956, the US Supreme Court ruled in favor of the MIA. Martin Luther King, Jr., recognized that racism in its many forms was holding blacks back economically and that blacks were being denied the basic rights that white Americans took for granted. </span>


**This type of disconnect marginalizes minorities and dominates their lives.**

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>,** Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>**, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 18-19:)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In their attempt to test the reality of the Brown decision, the Freedom Riders never made it to New Orleans. Instead they were met by angry white mobs and racist police.</span>


**Isolating minorities from the job markets creates a gap between the wealthy and the poor that drags us to an unsustainable future.**

Jean **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mercier</span>**, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>** (Author on social justice, Administrative Theory & Praxis31. 2, "Equity, Social Justice, and Sustainable Urban Transportation in the Twenty-First Century", :)


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">During the era of cheap and abundant oil</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, coming to an end within the next few decades, and </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">when environmental matters fell under the radar, urban transportation was not seen as an important social justiceand equity issue</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Often, engineers were in charge of this area of public administration, and the engineering answer to urban transport was generally to build more and more roads, to satisfy the growing demand</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


**Building changes around providing for low-income residential needs solves transportation inequality.**

Robert D. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard</span>**, Glenn S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson</span>**, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Angel O. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torres</span>**, Publish 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Pg 165 :)


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sprawl-driven development diverts funds away from central cities</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Improving low-income residents' mobility, particularly for those making the transition from welfare to work, may be the difference between employment and unemployment, and between self-sufficiency and dependency.</span>**


**By focusing on low-income residential needs, we diminish the private sphere, which is a foundation of inequality and domination.**

Jean **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mercier</span>**, 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>** (Author on social justice, Administrative Theory & Praxis31. 2, "Equity, Social Justice, and Sustainable Urban Transportation in the Twenty-First Century", :)


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In urban studies, there are some schools of thought that insist more than others on the importance of the design of the urban space</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">andits</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> multiple and determining </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">effectson urban life</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, including civic attitudes </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and equality</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. We already mentioned two such schools of thought by referring earlier to human ecology and New Urbanism.</span>




=Negative= 
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Capitalism kritik </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Capitalism is the most aggressive and violent system humans have ever created. Its violence is perverse and incalculable. We must use this space to challenge its ideological dimensions. </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zizek and Daly 04</span>__—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology in Ljubljana [Slavoj and Glyn, “Conversations with Zizek”, pg 14-16]**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">For Zizek it is imperativethat we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol and recognize that our ethico-political responsibility is to confront the constitutive violence of today's global capitalism and its obscene naturalization/anonymization of the millions who are subjugated by it throughout the world...</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Investment in transportation infrastructure is the linchpin of capitalist ideology – It promotes the interests of the capital elites by coercing public support and conceals a more fundamental conservative standpoint</span>**

**Nicholas** **__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Low</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> 2003</span>__ (Low, N.P. (2003) ‘Is Urban Transport Sustainable?’ in Making Urban Transport Sustainable, Basingstoke: Palgrave-Macmillan Chapter 1 pp. 1-22.**
**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sustaining the economy has been the principal task of governments</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> throughout the developed world since the end of the Second World War. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s easy to see why investment in transport infrastructure is such an appealing way of spending taxes</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and borrowed funds</span>


**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Appeals to congestion, trade, competition, and hegemony are smokescreens for a violent order of domination. As one state gains one is excluded. This makes resource wars, death, and racism inevitable</span>**



**Joe** **__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grengs</span>__ professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan** **__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">2005</span>__ (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)**

**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical working</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">class neighbourhood of inner</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">city L</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">os </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">A</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ngeles</span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">a city with an extraordinary array of peoples and cultures</span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">. The bus pulls up with standing room only, filled with a variety of people: </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mexican, Salvadoran, Korean, Filipino and African American; men and women going to jobs, some of them janitors, some street vendors.</span>


**<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Granting more access to the centers of capital and putting the racialized surplus labor in greater competition is the flip side of the global violence and militarism that is constitutive of modern capital. The affirmative ensures that both militarism at home and abroad remain the primary experience of the laboring classes.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Michael McIntyre and Heidi J. Nast 2011 (Bio(necro)polis: Marx, Surplus Populations, and the Spatial Dialectics of Reproduction and “Race” Volume 43, Issue 5, pages 1465–1488, November 2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This collection of papers re-examines Marx's notion of surplus populations in light of contemporary capitalism and a world marked by tremendous global shifts in fertility rates, almost unprecedented rates of outmigration to hegemonic nation-states and enclaves, heightened levels of investment in (and hyper-exploitation of) formerly colonized nations, and massive degradation of the environment. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Do not believe the specific scenario planning offered by the affirmative. Expert analysis is like dart throwing - give them no risk of calculations</span>**

**Menand,** 20**05**, Former Professor of Political Science at MIT, [Louis, December 5, “Everybody's and Expert,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">“Expert Political Judgment” is not a work of media criticism. Tetlock is a psychologist—heteaches at Berkeley—and </span>**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">his </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">conclusions are based on a long-term study </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">that he began twenty years ago. </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">He picked two hundred and eighty-four people who made their living “commenting </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">or offering advice on political and economic trends,” and </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">he </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">started </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">asking them to assess the probability that various things would </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">or would not </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">come to pass</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">both in the areas of the world in which they specialized and in areas about which they were not expert. Would there be a nonviolent end to apartheid in South Africa? Would Gorbachev be ousted in a coup?</span>



**David __<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harvey</span>__, Professor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]]</span> at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, __<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">20</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">10</span>__ **(The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)**

**__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality of capitalism becomes plain for all to see.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Surplus capital and surplus labour exist side by side with seemingly no way to put them hack together in the midst of immense human suffering and unmet needs. In midsummer of 2009, one third of the capital equipment in the United States stood idle, while some 17 per cent of the workforce were either unemployed, enforced parttimers or discouraged workers. What could be more irrational than that? </span>


**Fiscal Discipline 1NC**


**<span class="Author-Date">U.S. growth is slow but still increasing- turn around still possible</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norris</span>**, chief financial correspondent at NY times<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, **6/15/12**</span> (Floyd, “A Slow Recovery in the United States, but It’s All Relative”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/16/business/economy/a-slow-recovery-but-its-all-relative.html]], NYtimes)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE slow pace of the American economic recovery seems likely to be a major issue in this year’s presidential election. But by the standards of other developed countries, the United States has done rather well since the credit crisis blossomed in 2008 and sent the world into recession...</span>


**Stimulus measures through infrastructure ultimately lead to cost overruns and balloons the deficit**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rugy and Mitchel</span>,** <span class="st">senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span class="st">(Veronique and Matthew, September, “Would More Infrastructure spending stimulate the economy?”, </span>http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Four years into the deepest recession since World War II, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. economy expanded at a rate of only 0.7 percent in the first half of 2011. This means that the economy is growing at a slower pace than the population and that capita output continues to fall...</span>


**Government spending is economically destructive**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell, ‘05</span>**

Daniel J., expert on tax reform and supply-side tax policy, Cato member, Heritage Foundation senior fellow, economist for Senator Bob Packwood and the Senate Finance Committee, served on the 1988 Bush/Quayle transition team, Director of Tax and Budget Policy for Citizens for a Sound Economy, articles found in Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Investor’s Business Daily, and Washington Times, bachelor’s and master’s degrees in economics from the University of Georgia and a Ph.D. in economics from George Mason University, 3/15/05, “The Impact of Government Spending on Economic Growth”, Executive Summary Backgrounder published by the Heritage Foundation, No. 1831

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A growing government is contrary to America’s economic interests because the various methods of financing government</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">—taxes, borrowing, and printing money—</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">have harmful effects. This is also true because government spending by its very nature is often economically destructive, regardless of how it is financed</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">...</span>


**<span class="bbcunderline">Economic downturns cause global wars</span>**

<span class="bbcunderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mead 9</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> — Henry Kissinger Senior Fellow at the CFR, Professor at Yale (Walter Russel, "What Doesn't Kill You Makes You Stronger," The New Republic)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; they have left the societies that have tried them in a progressively worse position, farther behind the front-runners as time goes by. Argentina has lost ground to Chile; Russian development has fallen farther behind that of the Baltic states and Central Europe. Frequently, the crisis has weakened the power of the merchants, industrialists, financiers, and professionals who want to develop a liberal capitalist society integrated into the world...</span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]