[[toc]]
=HEY= 
Cites and shtuff: email @ Wordragoon@gmail.com
Absurdist musings,Love letters, or just a good conversation: Email
Wordragoon@gmail.com


=Affirmative= 
== == 






==1AC-Sophhomore Hodown round 7== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We begin with a discussion by Peter Dreier about the way society remembers Rosa Parks:</span>

**__THE ...__****__establishment__**.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Peter Dreier, Professor of Politics and Director of the Urban and Environmental Policy Program @ Occident</span>
== == 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">al College, 2006 “Rosa Parks: Angry, Not Tired” Dissent vol.53 #1 p</span>
== == 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">gs. 88-92)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Western modes of thinking reduce history to a series of spontaneous events with a clear beginning and end. By remembering Mrs. Parks as the sole revolutionary, casting off the chains of discrimination on the US bus system, we can comfortably re-assure ourselves that racism was a fragile system that merely needed one strong person to stand up to it and it would crumble. However, understanding the reality of the long, difficult struggle to overcome the Jim Crow laws is critical to demonstrate to the debate community how politics and resistance truly operate.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moya </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lloyd</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, 3/14/</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, (Professor of political theory at Loughborough University, Radical Democratic Activism and the Politics of Resignification, Constellations Journal, Vol.14 Issue 1.,6/26/12, K.H.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By ... challenge.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Further, understanding the legacy of access to transportation infrastructure is not merely a question of the past. To this day, white Americans experience better access to transportation than minorities do.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Matthew A. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dombroski</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> M.A. Population Geography, University of Georgia 2003. J.D. Candidate </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. Managing Editor, Columbia Law Review, Vols. 104–105. February 18, 2005 SECURING ACCESS TO TRANSPORTATION FOR THE URBAN POOR “The modern…several reasons” COLUMBIA LAW REVIEW [Vol. 105:503 accessed 6/25/12 S.U</span>

**__The ...__** reasons.

====We must reject every instance of racism==== 
Joseph <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barndt</span>, Co-Director, Crossroads, DISMANTLING RACISM, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1991</span>, p. 155-156
The ... continue.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**A genealogy of Whiteness is key to unveiling all oppression**</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kuswa 02</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at Cal State University Fresno and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Practitioners ...</span>city.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This discrimination is no coincidence – it is part of a biopolitical transportation system designed to shield whites from having to interact with minority populations. This is a modern day system of clean apartheid, cleansed of the excessive violence and reduced to its purest form of segregation.</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kuswa 02</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at Cal State University Fresno and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.) </span>

How ... **__others.__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The role of the ballot is whoever’s methodology best challenges whiteness.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">You have an apriori academic and ethical obligation to historically interrogate whiteness – it poisons all social relations, solidifying a permanent system of oppression and rendering problems increasingly invisible to political analysis.</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Arnesen 01’</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Eric Arnesen, Fall 2001, Professor of History at George Washington University, Whiteness and the Historians’ Imagination, Published at University of Illinois at Chicago, [[http://webs.rps205.com/teachers/jsolberg/files/A125C20651D2406E873089EBFF386B49.pdf]], 6/27/12, K.H.)</span>

**__Whiteness ...__**utility

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The 1ac is not just an abstract rejection of whiteness in the world – it is a specific application of genealogy as a method of opening space for previously silenced perspectives on transportation policy. Only interrogating the historical legacy of racial discrimination effectively problematizes the invisible whiteness that structures transportation policy. </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kuswa 02</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.) </span>

**__A ...__** colour:"
====Also, an exclusive policy focus as a method of change causes politics to be dominated by experts, crowding out minority opinions and allowing the inherent whiteness in the status quo to dominate politics.==== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Joan W.** Moore **author The MIT Press on behalf of American Academy of Arts & Sciences** 1981 **Minorities in the American Class System Daedalus, Vol. 110, No. 2, American Indians, Blacks, Chicanos, and Puerto Ricans(Spring, 1981), pp. 275-299 http://www.jstor.org/stable/20024733 .Accessed: 26/06/2012 16:35** </span>

__No ...__ reality.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Finally, a genealogy of whiteness is critical to rupturing the reduction of the Montgomery Bus Boycott to Mrs. Parks singular act. Only bringing the long process of resistance to Jim Crow to the front can provide an effective blueprint for future resistance. </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Medina 11</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Jose Medina, October 2011, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt, Toward a Foucaultian Epistemology of Resistance: Counter-Memory, Epistemic Friction, and Guerrilla Pluralism, 6/26/12,K.H.)</span>

As ...**__ways__**.39
==1AC- Sophomore Hodown round 2== 
==<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>== 
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Government support needed for spaceport demand now </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Hall 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Hall, Writer for DVice (SyFy), 2012¶ (Kevin, "Britain, U.S. firming up plans for new spaceports", DVice, "http://dvice.com/archives/2012/07/britain-us-firm.php", 7/11/12, Accessed: 7/20/12)¶ </span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">The... NASA. </span>
==<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Plan Text</span>== 
====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">The United States federal government should increase its investment in spaceport infrastructure in the United States. </span>==== 
==<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Contention 2: SPS</span>== 
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Launch costs for SPS remain high</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Coopersmith 9, Historian of Technology at Texas A&M University 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">(Jonathan Coopersmith, thespacereview.com, 9/28/09, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1475/1, retrieved 6/22/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">The... amount.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">A Viable Space industry key to make space solar power economically viable</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Collins and Autino 08 (Patrick, econ professor-Azabu University (Japan) and a Collaborating Researcher with the Institute for Space & Astronautical Science, and Adriano, President of the Space Renaissance International, “What the Growth of a Space Tourism Industry Could Contribute to Employment, Economic Growth, Environmental Protection, Education, Culture and World Peace, “http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to_employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 20pt;">4. Environmental ... society [22,27]. </span>


====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Spaceports lower launch costs¶</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Clegg Et al 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;"> Melanie Clegg U.S.A.¶ Vincent Coache Canada ¶ Tyler Dwyer Canada¶ Shady El Azab Belgium¶ Kristin Freeman U.S.A.¶ Shai Gerner Israel¶ Marc Gick Canada¶ Fei Guan China¶ Yuri Ishizu Japan¶ Sebastian Klaus Germany¶ Marc Labriet U.S.A.¶ Mikkel Ladegaard Denmark¶ Frederico Larangeira Portugal¶ Luliang Lou China¶ Zhuoyan Lu China¶ Qinglang Luo China¶ Nuno Loureiro Portugal¶ Julie Mason U.S.A.¶ Narasimha Murthy N. Narasimhulu India¶ Paul Nizenkov Germany¶ Duarte Sousa Portugal¶ Fredrik Persson Sweden¶ Udrivolf Pica Italy¶ Lucie Poulet France¶ Maxime Puteaux France¶ Dmitry Rachkin Russian Federation¶ Eirini Maria Sfantzikaki Greece¶ Yuan Si China, Chrishma Singh-Derewa U.S.A., Rui Sousa Portugal, Suki Dauda Sule Nigeria, Anna Szwemin Poland, Graeme Taylor United Kingdom, Aliya Valiyff Australia, OASIS Space Studies Program 12, 2012, //INTERNATION SPACE UNIVERSITY FLORIDA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KENNEDY SPACE CENTER//, http://isulibrary.isunet.edu/opac/doc_num.php?explnum_id=419</span>

<span style="font-size: 16pt;">To...</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 20pt;">with.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Scenario 1 is Water</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">SPS best addresses water scarcity</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Bishu 9 (Desta, writer, Ethiopian Review, 7/21, http://www.ethiopianreview.com/articles/16255m, accessed 6-27-11, </span>
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">On ...water.</span>
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Water is needed and is a human right comes before all other impacts- moral obligations oblige governments to provide water -leads to legal entitlements, rights, and stops discrimination</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Rights and Humanity 11 Right to Water- http://www.righttowater.info/about/ “Information portal on human rights to water and sanitation” Date of information 2008-2011</span>

<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Why...menu.</span>


====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Ignoring rights violations justifies worse atricities</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Journal of Contemporary Health Law & Policy, 2001 (Winter, 18 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol’y 95, p. 117)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 20pt;">The...</span>__<span style="font-size: 20pt;">__outcome__?</span>


===<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Scenario 2 is Warming</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Warming is caused by fossil fuel use and unchecked it leads to extinction</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Abbasi et al, Premalatha and Abbasi, Centre for Pollution Control & Environmental Engineering, Pondicherry University 10 (Tasneem, M.m S.A., Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, “The return to renewables: Will it help in global warming control?” (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=MImg&_imagekey=B6VMY-514RB5B-C-1&_cdi=6163&_user=655954&_pii=S1364032110003357&_origin=&_coverDate=01%2F31%2F2011&_sk=999849998&view=c&wchp=dGLzVzz-zSkWA&md5=b4de44d87ee97b145615d8716f3cb4a2&ie=/sdarticle.pdf)//C-NBM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 20pt;">But ... extinction.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">SSP is the only viable option for solving warming because it provides limitless clean energy resources</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">NSS 11 (National Space Society, 6/3/11, “Space Solar Power Limitless clean energy from space,” 6/21/11 (http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/)//C-NBM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16pt;">The ...</span><span style="font-size: 20pt;">reach. </span>

==<span style="font-size: 48pt;">Contention 3: Space Tourism</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 22pt;">No launch pads makes launch costs high, keeps the privates from launching often or cheaply, which is key to space tourism </span>**
<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Citizen Space 9/7</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> (a project of the United States Rocket Academy, is dedicated to citizen science and citizen space exploration, “Another Vicious Cycle” 9/7/12, [[http://www.citizensinspace.org/2012/09/another-vicious-circle/]] MGE)</span>



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Yesterday, ...</span><span style="font-size: 20pt;">launches.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 26pt;">Sub point One: Economy</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 22pt;">Economic growth is fragile – on the brink between continued growth and decline</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Associated Press 6/20</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;"> – (“A look at how the Fed’s views on the US economy, unemployment and its next steps have changed”, The Washington Post, June 20, 2012 1:33 pm, http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/a-look-at-how-the-feds-views-on-the-us-economy-employment-and-spending-have-changed/2012/06/20/gJQAdeMYqV_story.html)//AS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">A ...</span><span style="font-size: 24pt;">gasoline</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;">.”</span>

====<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 22pt;">Space tourism solves for global economy and unemployment</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Collins,</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;"> Researcher for Spacefuture, 20</span><span style="font-size: 22pt;">06</span>
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">(Patrick, "The Economic Benefits of Space Tourism", Spacefuture, "http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/the_economic_benefits_of_space_tourism.shtml"2006, Accessed:7/22/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 24pt;">The...scale</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;">. </span>

====<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 22pt;">Jobs key to sustained growth and recovery</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 22pt;">HINDERY & GERARD 5 – 15 – 12</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 18pt;">co-chairs of The Task Force on Jobs Creation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Hindery is also founder of Jobs First 2012 and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Gerard is international president of the United Steelworkers and a member of the executive council of the AFL-CIO [Leo Hindery, Jr. and Leo W. Gerard, [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/leo-hindery-jr/jobcreation_]] b_1517730.html] </span>

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">The ...</span><span style="font-size: 24pt;">roar</span>








====<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Aerospace manufacturing key to U.S. manufacturing base</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Platzer, ’09</span>**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> (Michaela, Specialist in Industrial Organization and Business, “U.S. Aerospace Manufacturing: Industry Overview and Prospects”, Congressional Research Service, 12/3/2009, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA511133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, LH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Aerospace ...2008. </span>

====<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 16pt;">Manufacturing is critical to R&D</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Lind 12</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">In ...path.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">R&D key to biotech which solves bioterror-encryption, chemical detection</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Morgan et al 3</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson Organic Materials Department, Ramona L. Myers Nuclear Safety Assessment Department; “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review “September 2003,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Other...</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 14pt;">ields.</span>



====<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Bioterror is the latest, greatest existential threat</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Matheny 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Matheny 7 - MPH from Johns Hopkins, PhD Candidate @ Johns Hopkins (Jason, research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, where his work focuses on technology forecasting and risk assessment - particularly of global catastrophic risks and existential risks.[1] He previously worked for the World Bank, the Center for Biosecurity, the Center for Global Development, and on national security projects for the US government. He is a Sommer Scholar and PhD candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University. He holds an MPH from Johns Hopkins, an MBA from Duke University, and a BA from the University of Chicago, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,”[[http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Of ...risks.</span>
====<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Reducing existential risk by 1% comes before anything else in the round. </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Bostrom 11</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Nick Bostrom, PhD in philosophy and foremost expert on existential risk, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011, â€œThe Concept of Existential Risk,â€ Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In ...</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;"> stake.</span>




**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 18pt;">Plan is a prerequisite to all kritikal impacts because they do not consider our descendants and the value to life that will exist in a more advanced human civilization</span>**



<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Bostrom 11</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 18pt;">(Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk”</span> <span style="font-size: 18pt;">[[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 18pt;"> MGE)</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 20pt;">Holding ...</span><span style="font-size: 16pt;"> action.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 20pt;">[13]</span>
====<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Economic collapse culminates in extinction and complete destruction of the biosphere</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Bearden 00</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **(Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army, 6-12, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary% 20Energy%20Crisis.doc, 6-26-11, AH)**</span>
Bluntly,...decades.




===<span style="font-size: 26pt;">Sub point 2: Oppression</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 22pt;">Space tourism uniquely key to stopping resource wars and government oppression</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Collins, Researcher for Spacefuture, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">(Patrick, "The Economic Benefits of Space Tourism", Spacefuture, "http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/the_economic_benefits_of_space_tourism.shtml"2006, Accessed:7/22/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 24pt;">In ...world-wide.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Contention 4: Leadership</span>== 
====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">The US has lost global perceptions of space leadership, tanking credibility</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Dittmar 12</span>
Mary Lynne Dittmar (Dr., the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc. She is a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships), The Space Review, January 3, 2012, "An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5)", accessed May 16, 2012, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1]]

Whether ...<span style="font-size: 20pt;"> it.</span>




====<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 18pt;">Spaceport development increases US credibility and encourages international law and cooperation</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11</span>
Mária Zulick Nucci is an attorney, licensed to practice in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She also is admitted in several federal jurisdictions. Her practice focuses on federal and state appellate litigation. Joanne Irene Gabrynowicz is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law; professor of space law and remote sensing law; Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law; and a Director of the International Institute of Space Law. She can be contacted at jgabryno@ olemiss.edu. 10 The Issue Is: What Is a Spaceport? The Air & Space Lawyer Volume 24, No. 1, 2011 ([[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/Forums/Airspace/MO/MemberDocuments/air_space_24_1.authcheckdam.pdf]])

Initially, <span style="font-size: 27px; line-height: 39px;">...</span>users.

====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Space operations key to soft power</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">(Logsdon, Poli Sci Professor, 07)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">John Logsdon (Professor of Political Science at George Washington University, former director of the Space Policy Institute), The Journal for Space and Missile Professionals, March 2007, “Human Space Flight and National Power”, Volume 3, Number 2, accessed March 13, 2012, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What...</span><span style="font-size: 16pt;">country.</span>




====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 24pt;">Loss of space leadership collapses the global economy and turns all war impacts</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 20pt;">Dolman, 5</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 20pt;">—Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 20pt;">(Everett C., “U.S. Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” 9-14-05, http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 20pt;">No ...should.</span>




====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Science leadership is key to sustainable hegemony and cooperation</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">(Coletta, Poli Sci Professor, 09)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Damon Coletta (Professor of Political Science at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University, Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University, Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University, B.S.E.E., 1988), Defense Technical Information Center, September 2009, "Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence", accessed May 22, 2012, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 16pt;">To ....</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">communities.</span>




====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">US leadership solves war.</span>==== 
__<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>__, Both MA candidates at Columbia University. Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” online, 1/22, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great powers — down. The individual dramas of the past decade — the September 2001 terrorist attacks, prolonged wars in the Middle East and the financial crisis — have delivered the world a message: US primacy is in decline. This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative... primacy.

====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Science leadership also prevents conflict escalation and resource wars</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">(Royal Society 10)</span>
Royal Society, AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science, Founded in 1848, it serves some 262 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10 million individuals), January 2010, “New Frontiers of Science Diplomacy”, accessed January 3, 2012, http://diplomacy.aaas.org/files/New_Frontiers.pdf
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Cooperation ...conflict (see Figure</span>2).

==<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Contention 5: Solvency </span>== 

====<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Congress key to spaceports– attract capital, technology and human resources.</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Mineiro ‘8</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Michael Mineiro - – Legal counsel to NOAA -- Boren National Security Fellow alumnus with unique expertise on China and Chinese outer space law and policy. Currently serves as an international and interagency affairs specialist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service (NESDIS). A former guest Lecturer at the International Space University. Doctoral Boeing Fellow of Air & Space Law at McGill University LAW AND REGULATION GOVERNING U.S. COMMERCIAL SPACEPORTS: LICENSING, LIABILITY, AND LEGAL CHALLENGES- The Journal of Air Law and Commerce 73 no4 759-805 Fall 2008 Ebsco 9/19/12 WE DO NOT ADVOCATE THE GENDER LANGUAGE IN OUR EVIDENCE – </span>

<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Congress ...</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> tomorrow.</span>

====<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 18pt;">Spaceports key to SPS and Space Tourism </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Webber 3</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Derek, “Lessons of ASCENT - Messages for Industry, the Federal Government and Spaceport Authorities” September 2003 Presented at Space 2003, Long Beach, CA, Spaceport Associates, Washington DC * AIAA Member, Director, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/lessons_of_ascent_messages_for_industry_the_federal_government_and_spaceport_authorities.shtml]]</span>
These... recorded.

----

==1AC-Zoom Zoom Honk Honk== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national alternative energy powered high-speed rail network.==== 
==== ==== 
====Contention 1: Inherency==== 

====High Speed Rail funding is blocked – transportation sq funding only goes to maintaining current infrastructure==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goozner</span>, Award-winning journalist. Has been published by the New York Times, The Washington Post, etc. , June 24, 2012( Merrill, House Puts the Brakes on High Speed Rail<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, June 24, 2012</span>, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/06/24/House-Puts-the-Brakes-on-High-Speed-Rail.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/06/24/House-Puts-the-Brakes-on-High-Speed-Rail.aspx#page1]], June 25, 2012) pg. 1

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>__House...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ash.)</span>


====Contention 2: Competitiveness==== 

====Current transportation investment goes to maintaining the current highway system. This focus kills US economic competitiveness==== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BAF</span>**</span> Ed Fund, bipartisan coalition of elected officials focused on US investment in infrastructure, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20</span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>**</span> [Building America’s Future Educational Fund, “Building America’s Future – Falling Apart and Falling Behind,” Transportation Infrastructure Report] SM

__In ...__ __projects.__


====US High Speed Rail is key to US Competitiveness – studies/jobs==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sires</span>, Representative of the House, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>
(Albio, The Hill-blog of Congress, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/149263-making-high-speed-rail-a-national-priority]]; DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">{During ...</span>__investment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.}</span>

====Continued decline in competitiveness eradicates US primacy==== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lawrence</span>**</span>**,** former member of President Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">20</span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span>**</span> [Robert Z., “Competitiveness,” **[[http://www.econlib.org/LIBRARY/Enc/Competitiveness.html]]**, Accessed 6/1/12]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It ...</span> __others__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


====US leadership prevents great powers wars.==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad</span>, 2/8/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> (Zalmay – former United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq and the United Nations, The Economy and National Security, National Review)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We ...</span> aggression.


====Contention 3: Oil Dependence==== 

====US Requires 96% oil in the transportation sector==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deutch</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Chair of Council on Foreign Relations, Schlesinger, Chair of Council on Foreign Relations,Victor, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>
(John, James, David, __Council on Foreign Relations,__ “National Security Consequences of U.S. Oil Dependency”, Nov 06, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA507168]]</span>, 7/3/2012) EIL

__<span style="font-family: Bembo,serif;">Energy...</span>____<span style="font-family: Bembo,serif;"> economy.</span>__

====High speed rail is key to jobs and energy security – creates a new industry with new demands==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kunz</span>**,**president and CEO of the U.S. High Speed Rail Association, 3/10/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
(Andy, U.S. High-Speed Rail: Time to Hop Aboard or Be Left Behind, 3/10/2011, [[http://e360.yale.edu/feature/us_high-speed_rail_time_to_hop_aboard_or_be_left_behind/2378/]], Access: 6/28/2012) AGI

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">{</span>__Enhancing ...__ __more.}__

====Plan decreases dependence on foreign oil==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sires</span>, Representative of the House, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>
(Albio, The Hill-blog of Congress, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/149263-making-high-speed-rail-a-national-priority]]; DKE)

[<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With ...</span> wars
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heinberg</span>, Professor New College, recipient of M.K. Hubbert Award for Energy Excellence Education & Senior Fellow at Post-Carbon Institute, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span> [Richard, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Party’s Over: Oil, War, and the Fate of Industrial Societies</span>, 2003, p. 230]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today ...</span> biosphere.


====Contention 4: Congestion==== 

====Congestion increases emissions from cars==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Page</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Staff Writer for Burlington Free Press, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Candace, //A simple formula,// June 23, 2012, </span>[[http://www.burlingtonfreepress.com/article/20120624/GREEN/306240010/Vehicle-pollution-follows-simple-formula?odyssey=mod%7Cnewswell%7Ctext%7CFRONTPAGE%7Cs]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, July 2, 2012; FAS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>The...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> illness.)</span>

====**Unabated climate change collapses civilization**==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Figueres</span>**__,__** Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, February 15, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
[Christiana, Security Address to the Congress of Deputies of Spain at the Centro Superior de Estudios de la Defensa Nacional in Madrid,” http://climateprogress.org/2011/02/15/food-crisis-climate-change-figueres/, Accessed 6/12/11] SM
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In ...</span>so.


====High Speed Rail decreases traffic congestion==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Longman</span>, senior fellow at the New American Foundation, 2/22/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
(Phillip, Back on Tracks, 2/22/2011, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/features/2009/0901.longman.html]], Access: 7/1/2012) AGI

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">{Looking ...</span> __infrastructure.}__


====Contention 5: Solvency==== 

====USFG investment key to a national high-speed rail network – SQ is outdated behind other developed nations==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hart</span>, director of government relations at Quarles & Brady, and vice president of government affairs for the US High Speed Rail Association, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">May</span> 23, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span> [Politico, Thomas, Jr., “High Speed Rail’s Many Benefits,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76682_Page2.html, Accessed 6/1/12] SM

__Even ....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> networks.</span>


====HSR will be ran on renewables==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green Chip Stocks, 7-3-2012</span>, (Green Chip Stocks, High-Speed Rail: Getting Back on Track, 2012, [[http://www.greenchipstocks.com/report/high-speed-rail-getting-back-on-track/450]], July 3, 2012, pg 1; FAS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Through ...</span> Administrator.)

====Rail attracts riders and is a reduced cost that is affordable==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sitharam</span>, Chairman India’s Centre for Infrastructure, Sustainable Transport and Urban Planning, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>
(T.G., Deccan Herald, [[http://www.deccanherald.com/content/260945/commuter-train-track-take-future.html]]; DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>Rail ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public is eager – will ride</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Durbin</span>, assistant majority leader of the senate, September 21, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> (Richard, official website of Dick Durbin, [[http://durbin.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/pressreleases?ID=32617df5-4fc7-45b1-aefa-57dde3f4e759]], DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>__Rail ...____requests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>
====Building HSR in megaregions solves ridership==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Todorovich</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Director of [[http://www.america2050.org/|America 2050]], a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States, et al, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Petra, //High Speed Rail; a lesson for U.S. policy makers,// 13;FAS)</span>

The ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">coasts.</span>
== == 
==1AC-High Speed Choo-choo's== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national alternative energy powered high-speed rail network.==== 

====Contention 1: Inherency==== 

====High Speed Rail funding is blocked – transportation sq funding only goes to maintaining current infrastructure==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goozner</span>, Award-winning journalist. Has been published by the New York Times, The Washington Post, etc. , June 24, 2012( Merrill, House Puts the Brakes on High Speed Rail<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, June 24, 2012</span>, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/06/24/House-Puts-the-Brakes-on-High-Speed-Rail.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/06/24/House-Puts-the-Brakes-on-High-Speed-Rail.aspx#page1]], June 25, 2012) pg. 1

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>__House ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ash.)</span>



====Contention 2: Poverty==== 


====Infrastructure not sufficient for nation’s poor==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cholia</span>, Coeditor of Alt transport, October 19, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span> (Ami, Alt Transport, [[http://alttransport.com/2010/10/lack-of-transportation-affects-our-nations-poor-the-most/]]; DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>__Over ...____serve__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>


====Poor most affected by transit cuts – National High Speed Rail will reverse that trend==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cholia</span>, Coeditor of Alt transport, October 19, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span> (Ami, Alt Transport, [[http://alttransport.com/2010/09/does-our-nations-transportation-policy-violate-the-civil-rights-act/]]; DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>__Manhattan ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> riders.]</span>

====Poverty is a structural violence that creates a cycle of oppression where certain lives are prioritized over others.==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gilligan</span>, (Dept. of Psych. @ Harvard Med & Dir. of the Center for the Study of Violence) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span>
[James, Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and its Causes p. 191-196]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You ...</span> effect.


====Contention 3: Marginalized Communities==== 

====Transit facilitates interconnectivity and discourages suburban sprawl==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goozner</span>, chief financial, and chief economics correspondent for the Chicago Tribune, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">June 25, 2012</span>
(Merrill, Gooznews, [[http://gooznews.com/?p=4018|__http://gooznews.com/?p=4018__]]; DKE)

__[“Smart-growth”...” development.]__


====High speed rail solves urban sprawl==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Staff writer for Jim Beall</span>, California assembly member, December 06 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span> (Official website of Jim Beall, [[http://asmdc.org/members/a24/news-room/press-releases/item/2977-beall-authors-high-speed-rail-bill-to-spur-jobs-and-economic-development;DKE]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>Assemblymember ... development<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>




====Urban sprawl concentrates poverty and lumps the dehumanizing impacts on the least fortunate members of society==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nancy </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (certified community planner. Nancy earned a master’s degree in urban and regional planning, and has served as a planning director in city and county governments. Often her department has been responsible for capital improvements, community development projects, and code enforcement too. She also served as president of a consulting firm specializing in neighborhood plans and community development work.) Accessed July 4, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Effects of Urban Sprawl on Costs, Health, Environment http://www.useful-community-development.org/effects-of-urban-sprawl.html#.T_SjmZFQD4E </span>

<span class="underline">If ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">living.</span>



====Contention 4: Solvency==== 

====USFG investment key to a national high-speed rail network – SQ is outdated behind other developed nations==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hart</span>, director of government relations at Quarles & Brady, and vice president of government affairs for the US High Speed Rail Association, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">May</span> 23, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span> [Politico, Thomas, Jr., “High Speed Rail’s Many Benefits,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76682_Page2.html, Accessed 6/1/12] SM

__Even ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">networks.</span>


====HSR will be ran on renewables==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green Chip Stocks, 7-3-2012</span>, (Green Chip Stocks, High-Speed Rail: Getting Back on Track, 2012, [[http://www.greenchipstocks.com/report/high-speed-rail-getting-back-on-track/450]], July 3, 2012, pg 1; FAS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Through ...</span>Administrator.)

====Rail attracts riders and is a reduced cost that is affordable==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sitharam</span>, Chairman India’s Centre for Infrastructure, Sustainable Transport and Urban Planning, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>
(T.G., Deccan Herald, [[http://www.deccanherald.com/content/260945/commuter-train-track-take-future.html]]; DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>Rail promotes superior urban form and will attract new riders<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. It is very necessary to develop a commuter rail system using the existing network of the Indian Railways’ backbone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and integrate the new metro system and the existing systems of public transport by buses for a supportive overall urban transport policy. </span>This could also create a transit-oriented development with a long-term sustainable financing.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The commuter rail system can have the same capacity as metro systems and still have the scope for running long-distance trains in the same rail network at a much reduced cost</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public is eager – will ride</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Durbin</span>, assistant majority leader of the senate, September 21, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> (Richard, official website of Dick Durbin, [[http://durbin.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/pressreleases?ID=32617df5-4fc7-45b1-aefa-57dde3f4e759]], DKE)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>__Rail...__ __requests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.]</span>
====Building HSR in megaregions solves ridership==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Todorovich</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, Director of [[http://www.america2050.org/|America 2050]], a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States, et al, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Petra, //High Speed Rail; a lesson for U.S. policy makers,// 13;FAS)</span>

The...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">oasts.</span>
== == 
== == 


==1AC-Thunderstruck== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Inherency </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The question is when, not if another hurricane strikes. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Telegraph</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Francis Harris in Washington) “City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high” 01 Sep 2005 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html Herm </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> enough.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Key Places still lacks mass transit evacuation plans. More will be trapped again. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Renne et al., 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure for areas in risk of hurricanes. </span>**

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Case Study: New Orleans </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wailoo et al. 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">neighborhoods. </span>__


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No disaster is natural – who lives and who dies is part of a social calculus based on how much a society decides to care for the under privileged. FEMA didn’t just make mistakes for a few months—the death and suffering stemming from Katrina were decades in the making</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Smith 06</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> –</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, “There’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster” March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )//ALo//</span>

//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> class.</span>__//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation policy is the root of transportation inequality – this lies at the heart of racial, environmental inequality, and classism.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pastor et al. 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf</span>//

//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">How...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">discrimination</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It’s not just about New Orleans—Katrina highlighted the pervasive suffering caused by racialized poverty everywhere. </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Luft</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 2009 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor, Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara (Rachel, “Beyond Disaster Exceptionalism: Social Movement Developmentsin New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina” </span>//American Quarterly//, Volume 61, Number 3, September 2009, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.477.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>//ALo

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Traditionally, ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> start.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The horrors of Katrina justify the statement: ‘Never again’. The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime that looked on as thousands perished, reflective of a fascist machine where democracy is lost. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giroux, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> claims</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">” (2005, 122,124).</span>//


//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wolshon, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”, http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)</span>//BZ

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">elsewhere.</span>

=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Impacts should be viewed through the lens of environmental and racial justice– this is necessary to understand and rebuild after Katrina. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sze 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Julie Sze is an assistant professor in American Studies at the University of California, Davis. Her forthcoming book on the culture, politics and history of environmental justice activism in New York City is under contract with MIT Press. It looks at the intersection of planning and health, especially through the prism of asthma, and at changes in garbage and energy systems as a result of privatization, globalization and deregulation. Toxic Soup Redux: Why Environmental Racism and Environmental Justice Matter after Katrina By Julie Sze Published on: Jun 11, 2006 </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> region.</span>__
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AND we implement best, federal government key as they have to repent for their previous mistakes. Mass transit provides a unique opportunity to build coalition between citizens and the federal government, that is key to challenging environmental racism.</span>==== 
====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weir 01</span>==== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Margaret Weir, Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago in 1986. Her research and teaching fields include American political development, urban politics and policy, political sociology, and comparative studies of the welfare state, “</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">METROPOLITAN COALITION-BUILDING STRATEGIES” DM)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Proclaiming ...</span>decisions.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A federal response is the only ethical route. We need to recognize our collective responsibility to vulnerable populations. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giroux</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, 2006</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">– Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> flood.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">he 1AC is a pedogogical advocacy that opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability. </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Giroux</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, 2006</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>//BZ

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biopolitics.... death.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Levinas ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> state</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Since...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">secure.</span>__
=== === 
== == 
= = 




=Negative= 
==K's== 
(USUALLY DEPENDENT ON CASE this is not a comprehensive list)
==Paranoid Cap K== 
The Aff perpetuates a paranoid capitalism; their claims of production create a false consciousness of capitalism
GillesDeleuzeand<span class="CitesChar"> Félix </span>Guattari

<span class="CitesChar"> Anti-Oedipus</span>, 1977

<span class="CitesChar"> http://ebookbrowse.com/gdoc.php?id=280460370&url=0f9b1ca30a7495e1704e86246929b20c</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This ... process.</span>

**The rhizome of a Paranoid Capitalism, reshapes all impacts for the worse**

//Gilles// Deleuze and //Felix// Guattari

//A Thousand Plateaus (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,// 1987//) tr. Brian Massumi//

[[http://danm.ucsc.edu/~dustin/library/deleuzeguattarirhizome.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The... worst.</span>

This Paranoid capitalism is also the root cause of war
Carchedi 6
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Guglielmo, Senior Researcher in the Department of Economics and Econometrics at the University of Amsterdam, Rethinking Marxism, Volume 18, Number 1, January, “The Fallacies of Keynesian Policies,” p. 77-78, ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If ...reasons.</span>

**Paranoid Capitalism is unsustainable; The collapse is imminent and a rhizome of escape must be established now.**
**Newman 6**
(Robert, author and political activist and speaker Third World First, “Capitalism or a habitable planet – you can’t have both”, 2-2, http://climateandcapitalism.com/?p=955)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> crisis.</span>


Alternative Text: Reject the Paranoid-Capitalistic rhizome that the affirmative constructs and justify the plan in a Schizo-Capitalist Rhizome

**Alt creates a new rhizome of Schizo-Capitalism; this radical undertaking can only be made if we reject the Aff''s rhizome of Paranoid capitalism**

//Gilles// Deleuzeand //Félix// Guattari

//Anti-Oedipus,// 1977

http://ebookbrowse.com/gdoc.php?id=280460370&url=0f9b1ca30a7495e1704e86246929b20c

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">capitalism ... delirium.</span>

==Cap K== 
====Transportation investment is used to serve the interests of capital while ignoring social welfare.==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freemark 11</span>
(Yonah, urbanist and journalist who has worked in architecture, planning, and transportation, June 14th, 2011, “Local Neoliberalism’s Role in Defining Transit’s Purpose”, http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/06/14/local-neoliberalisms-role-in-defining-transits-purpose/)
Writing ... why?

====Profit maximization and competition within capitalism causes poverty, nuclear war, ecological destruction, economic crisis, disease, and overpopulation==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webb 04</span>** (“War, capitalism, and George W. Bush” Sam is the National Chairman, Communist Party USA, www.peoplesworld.org/war-capitalism-and-george-w-bush)

We ... level.
====The alternative is a personal rejection of capitalism==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holloway 05</span>**
(John, author of “How to Change the World with Taking Power” and his numerous works on the Zapatistas, Holloway edited Global Capital, National State and the Politics of Money and Post-Fordism and Social Form: A Marxist Debate on the Post-Fordist State (1992), Professor at the University of Edinburgh and currently teaches at the Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences at the Autonomous University of Puebla, August 15th, 2005, John Holloway presented these at the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, http://www.chtodelat.org/index.php?Itemid=124&id=214&option=com_content&task=view)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> create.</span>



==CP's== 
(USUALLY DEPENDENT ON CASE)

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmental Impact Assessment CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text – The United States federal government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of the United States federal government increasing its evacuation infrastructure investment in New Orleans and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It competes-</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“resolved” means “to make a firm decision”,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“should” is “used to imply obligation or duty”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">American Heritage Dictionary </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">at dictionary.com)</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmental assessments are key to maintain US environmental leadership</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Purvis 03</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Nigel is a Nonresident Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institute, “Greening U.S. Foreign Aid through the Millennium Challenge Account” June 2003, www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2003/06/energy-purvis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Importantly, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">both the environmental and business … multilateral institutions to conduct their own environmental assessments</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmental leadership checks extinction – it’s key to warming, biodiversity, oceans, soil, and the atmosphere</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Khosla 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Ashok Khosla, International Union for Conservation of Nature President, 1/27/09, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream”)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> from our wasteful industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-Policy Action CP]]Policy Action CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counter plan text:</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should adopt a nomadic approach to increase investments in transportation infrastructure in a politics of immanence. </span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The aff promotes spectatorship and avoidance of the issue – without a policy option they are doomed to failure</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">McClean 1 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">(David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” <span style="color: #3b5998;">[[http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]]</span> 10/2/11 NiMo)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated … __disrespect for the so-called "managerial class__."</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-H1-B Visas CP]]H1-B Visas CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should increase the cap on H-1B Visas to 195,000.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">H-1B workers don’t displace US jobs – paid the same, create more jobs, and key to higher from US universities</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Dunn 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– recognized as one of the Country’s leading Immigration Lawyers, co-chair of the New York State Bar Association’s Immigration and Nationality Law Committee, partner Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, LLP (June 19, Matthew, Forbes, “Drive Business Back To The U.S., Reform H-1B Visa Laws,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #3b5998;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2012/06/19/drive-business-back-to-the-u-s-reform-h-1b-visa-laws/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__For those who argue that H-1B workers take jobs … engineers in the U.S. who have a doctorate.__</span>**





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increase to 195,000 solves—increases economy, doesn’t steal jobs or decrease wages</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sherk and Nguyen 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (James Sherk is Bradley Fellow in Labor Policy in the Center for Data Analysis at The Heritage Foundation and Diem Nguyen is a Research Assistant in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, published May 13, 2009, “Restricting H-1B Visas Is Bad for Business and the Economy”, www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/05/restricting-h-1b-visas-is-bad-for-business-and-the-economy, accessed August 14, 2011)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Reports have indicated that Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA… </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">necessary for further economic growth.</span>__**</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-LOST CP]]**LOST CP**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should ratify the Law of the Sea Treaty.</span>**


<span class="Heading4Char" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counter plan can resolve military tensions, encourage cooperation on environmental problems and scientific research, and allow the international sharing of icebreakers</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Konyshev and Konyshev 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Valeri is a doctor of political sciences and Professor at St. Petersburg State University, Alexander is a doctor of political sciences and Professor at St. Petersburg State University, 7/6/12, “Arctic policy: between the United States and Russia rivalry and cooperation” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #3b5998;">[[http://www.bakutoday.net/arctic-policy-between-the-united-states-and-russia-rivalry-and-cooperation.html|www.bakutoday.net/arctic-policy-between-the-united-states-and-russia-rivalry-and-cooperation.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contradictions</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (explicit and implicit) </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">between Russia and the U</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">nited </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">tates…in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> favour </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">multilateral cooperation</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-50 States CP (vs. ports)]]50 States CP (vs. ports)</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text:</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The fifty states and relevant territories should provide substantial no-match-required grant funding for port security. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The local port authorities will request data from the relevant federal agencies for properly assessing vulnerabilities in ports to mitigate risks.</span></span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal jurisdiction stops at the water’s edge – the states are the normal actor in ports</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sherman 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> (Rexford B. Sherman, Director of Research and Information Services at the American Association of Port Authorities, 2002, “Seaport Governance in the United States and Canada” www.aapa-ports.org/files/PDFs/governance_uscan.pdf)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Introduction: To observers from abroad, even experienced port specialists..., particularly those pertaining to foreign and interstate commerce.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">BRICSMART CP</span>=== 
<span class="Author-Date">CP TEXT: The BRICSMART Initiative will collectively invest in the United States and provide all necessary materials for the construction of<INSERT PLAN CONSTRUCTION> </span>

<span class="Author-Date">The BRICSMART initiative can solve, </span>**<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">All member companies can sucessfully extend infrastructure</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;"> //BSE System of companies, 2012//</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;"> http://www.bseindia.com/deri/HotLinks/AboutFI.aspx?L=2&id=hd7&Lid=0#</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;"> __the...____region.__</span>

=== === 

==DA's== 
==Elections DA== 
====obama winning swing states now – but it’s close==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Voorhees 8/23</span> (Josh Voorhees, 8/23/12, Slate, “Obama's Swing State Lead Narrows in Wisc., Fla.” http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_slatest/2012/08/23/swing_state_nyt_quinnipiac_poll_obama_s_wisconsin_florida_lead_narrows_ohio_remains_unchanged_.html //nimo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last ... opposite. </span>



====New deficit spending galvanizes conservatives voters in swing states==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Kraushaar 12</span> (Josh Kraushaar, 5/16/12, National Journal, “Romney's Targeted Deficit Messaging,” http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php //nimo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span style="line-height: 36px;">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sentiment.</span>



====Winning swing states key to Obama reelection==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Reuters</span>, 6/27/<span style="font-size: 18pt;">2012</span> (Obama takes lead in swing states, economy still weighs, p. http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/27/us-usa-campaign-swingstates-poll-idUSBRE85Q0YJ20120627)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President ...</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;">Institute</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




====Obama reelection necessary for US/Russian relations==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Weir 12</span>, 3/27/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Russian ...</span> __continue__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>



====US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Elliott, 5/15/</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 18pt;">1995</span><span style="font-size: 18pt;"> (Michael, Why Russia Still Matters to America, Newsweek, p. lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 18pt;">"Russia...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">e rest.</span>
==Spending DA== 
====Fiscal discipline now – no new spending for the next 6 months==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dayton Business Journal 12</span> (8/1/12, “Congress reaches 6-month budget deal” www.bizjournals.com/dayton/blog/morning_call/2012/08/congress-reaches-6-month-budget-deal.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">law."</span>



====New spending will trigger a downgrade==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thriving Tools 12</span> (“The U.S. Credit Rating Downgrade” [[http://www.thrivingtools.com/government/the-u-s-credit-rating-downgrade/|www.thrivingtools.com/government/the-u-s-credit-rating-downgrade/]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Standard ...spending.</span>


====Further downgrades will cause a global economic crisis==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Goldwein 11</span> (Marc Goldwein, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation, 8/11/11, “Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America” www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/)
**NFL:** Marc Goldwein is a senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation, from theatlantic.com, published August 11, 2011, accessed August 20, 2012
What ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. </span>government<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>


====Economic collapse causes global nuclear war – conflict is now uniquely probable==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Merlini 11</span>(Cesare Merlini is a nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs, his areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology, “A Post-Secular World?” Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, Volume 53, Issue 2, April-May 2011, pages 117 – 130, Taylor & Francis Online)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
== == 
==Transportation Nationalism DA== 
====. First The Uniqueness, The Plan Is not happening in the status quo now, Ext. their Inherency evidence, <Insert Authors here>==== 
====2. USFG transportation policy is rooted in American nationalism. US Transportation Policy is rooted in nationalism-This is according to the D.O.T. mission statement==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">D.O.T. 2009, US Department of Transportation, Office of the Historian. “US department of transportation, A Brief History”: [[http://ntl.bts.gov/historian/history.htm]]. Accessed 9/26/12. </span>
The ... administrations.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4.</span>****<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> A. </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nationalism leads to economic ruin, war, facism, and a loss of democracy. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow ‘05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Nov 10, //Spreading Capitalism is Good for Peace//, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5193]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But... __states__.</span>
====B. Democracy Is the key to all Mpx and is a D-Rule.==== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Diamond</span>****<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">, hoover institution senior fellow, 95</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution senior fellow, co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, December 1995, A Report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,”</span>**[[@http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm|**http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm**]]**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**



<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">OTHER ....</span>**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12.5pt;"> built.</span>__**

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]