[[toc]]
=Notes= 
Sahil Shah- 1N/2A (Double 2's at Pennsbury, 1A 2N at Georgetown)
Harini Radhakrishnan- 1A/2N (Double 1's at Pennsbury, 1N 2A at Georgetown)

Email spshah@mcdonogh.org for all aff cite requests
Email hradhakrishnan@mcdonogh.org for all NEG cite requests (Note: Not going to Woodward.)
=Affirmative= 
I will post cites to the affirmative as soon as possible (he's not running this aff again so it's irrelevant now)
=Negative= 

==CPs== 
===States CP=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should ___ in the United States__</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">States should are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding </span>**</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Puentes 2k11</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12px;">(senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">)</span></span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">III. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A New State ...__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> development programs and commissions.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Consult Japan</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should enter into deep consultation with Japan about the future of the U.S. – Japan alliance</span>
**<span style="font-size: 95%; line-height: 1.5;">That Solves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 95%; line-height: 1.5;">Tanaka 10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 95%;">(Hitoshi Tanaka, senior fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange, chairman of the Institute for International Strategy at the Japan __[[#|Research institute]]__, he served for three years as Japan’s Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, advisor to Prime Minister Koizumi on relations with North Korea, China, and the United States, 2/16/10, East Asia Forum,</span> <span style="font-size: 80%;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/16/the-us-japan-alliance-beyond-futenma/|h]]</span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/16/the-us-japan-alliance-beyond-futenma/|ttp://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/16/the-us-japan-alliance-beyond-futenma/]] /mr)
The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">US-Japan alliance is too important . . . . . .</span> //rather than negotiate as adversaries.//

===Taiwan Relocation=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The USFG should relocate marines from Okinawa to Tinian. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guam can’t sustain marines- Tinian provides alternate space</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EIS 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Final EIS, "Guam and CNMI Military Relocation", July 2012,</span>
http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_3/Vol_03_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf)
Training operations proposed . . . . .. as designated by appropriate <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> commanders

===Magnetic Levitation=== 
<span style="font-size: 98%;">The United States federal government should provide substantial investment for investment in a national magnetic levitation express train infrastructure system. Exclusively to areas in which private actors guarantee at least one-third of the funding upfront for a minimum of twenty years. In negotiating these partnerships, the United States federal government should open infrastructure plans to modification, including the possible transfer of project ownership to private actors. The federal government should make all necessary regulatory changes to encourage greater public-private partnerships for a substantial increase in its investment in a national magnetic levitation express train infrastructure system. And provide necessary __[[#|technical assistance]]__ for implementation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">This solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Puentes, ‘10 – [8/23/10, Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, “New Partnerships for Accelerating Infrastructure Investments,” http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/08/23-los-angeles-puentes] </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">So as Congress continues. . . . . and reduced bureaucracy.[7]</span>

===<span style="font-size: 90%;">Hirsch CP (Port SECURITY)</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should keep close tabs on fissile materials around the world, buy foreign stockpiles, help foreign governments protect or destroy their stockpiles, lead an international effort with cooperation from abroad in tightening security at foreign ports, create partnerships with foreign imports to ensure shipment protection, and invest in response and mitigation capabilities.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP’s only way to solve the aff and is the only cost effective strategy—the plan spends tons of unnecessary funds</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> De Rugy ‘7 </span>**[November 2007, Veronique, Senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, adjunct scholar at the CATO Institute, “Is Port Security Funding Making Us Safer?” MIT Center for International Studies, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mit.edu/cis/pdf/Audit_11_07_derugy.pdf]]</span>]

A practical strategy rests on three priorities:
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Stop terrorists from acquiring . . . . . . .developing pre-positioned equipment for responders and the American population</span>**.**




===MONSTER CP (HTF)=== 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should direct all current revenue from the federal excise tax to investment in highways in the United States through the Highway Trust Fund, narrow the Highway Trust Fund’s focus to rebuilding and modernizing the highway system, fund non-highway programs either by current general revenues, the fifty states and all relevant territories, or, if needed, establish a cap-and-trade system for revenue, and substantially increase its Highway Trust Fund highway investment by increasing the federal excise tax rate and phasing in a price floor and variable tax on petroleum. </span>



**Preventing the HTF from going insolvent isn’t a question of more revenues but of better efficiency – counterplan generates sufficient revenue for the HTF and maintains an effective highway investment**

**Poole & Moore ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert W. Poole, Jr. - director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation, MIT-trained engineer, four-time presidential advisor on transportation and policy issues, advisor of the Federal Highway Administration, Federal Transit Administration, White House Office of Policy Development, National Economic Council, GAO, and state Dot’s. and Dr. Adrian T. Moore – director of the Galvin Project to End Congestion, member of the Transportation Research Board, serves on the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Finance Commission, PhD in Economics from the University of California, Irvine. ""Restoring Trust in the Highway Trust Fund"" N.p., august 2010. Web. <restoring_highway_trust_fund.pdf>.)</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal surface transportation policy ……….cut the Gordian knot.</span>



**The tax increase places a surcharge on CRUDE OIL, NOT GASOLINE - - it solves 100% of the reasons raising the gas tax is good but avoids politics**

**Merill & Schizer, 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas, JD from Oxford, Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, Legal Scholar at Yale, David, JD in Law from Yale, Dean and the Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law at Columbia, Harvey R. Miller Professor of Law and Economics, “Energy Policy for an Economic Downturn: A Proposed Petroleum Fuel Price Stabilization Plan”, Yale Journal on Regulation, 27 Yale J. on Reg. 1, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HIGHLIGHT: </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A compelling case …………..future oil price declines.</span>



===Basing Strategy/Cancel Futenma (Port DREDGING)=== 

Counterplan Text:
The United States Federal government should
- create an alliance task force and supporting civil society networks that starts a public diplomacy effort in Okinawa explaining the purpose of American basing and addressing public concerns including efforts to revitalize Okinawa’s economy with foreign investment, educational aid and exchanges, and infrastructure improvements.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">- </span>co-base Marines along with troops from Japan.
- cancel and not go through with plans to close the base Futenma or relocate bases from Futenma to Guam.

**Public diplomacy solves public support and solidifies the __foundation__ of the alliance**
**Denmark and Kliman ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Abraham Denmark and Daniel Kliman Denmark is a Fellow with the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). At CNAS, Mr. Denmark directs the Asia-Pacific Security Program and several defense strategy and planning projects and Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security. He contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives, a Japan Policy Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and an Adjunct Research Associate with the Institute for Defense Analyses, “Cornerstone: A Future Agenda for the U.S.-Japan Alliance” 6/16 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cnas.org/node/4591]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington and Tokyo also . . . . . </span> health care and __[[#|social security]]__.

==**DAs**== 

===**Decentralization DA**=== 
States are taking the lead on transportation now – federal intervention guts effectiveness
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomasson ’12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Scott Thomasson, President, NewBuild Strategies LLC. "Council on Foreign Relations." Council on Foreign Relations. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 June 2012. <http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771>.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There is no shortage of good . . . .. . with states and private investors</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**
Government-endorsed High Speed Rails encroach on federalism
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DeHaven 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ted DeHaven, budget analyst on federal and state budget issues for the Cato Institute, former deputy director of the Indiana Office of Management and Budget, former budget policy advisor to Senators Jeff Sessions and Tom Coburn, former member of governor Rick Scott’s Economic Advisory Council, 11-26-10, “High Speed Federalism Fight,” http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/high-speed-federalism-fight) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span>
some notable gubernatorial . . .. . . . state and local governments.


And, US federalism is modeled in Russia
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Calabresi 95</span> –<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor at Northwestern University School of Law- (Steven, "Symposium: Reflections On United States V. Lopez: "A Government Of Limited And Enumerated Powers": In Defense Of United States V. Lopez," Michigan Law Review, December 1995, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time**,** </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">U.S.-style constitutional federalism . . . . . . </span><span class="underline">**of** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">concepts of </span><span class="underline">public law</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**
Russian devolution is key to Russian stability – that solves nuclear war
Clifford**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">Kupchan</span>**, US State Department deputy coordinator of U.S. assistance to the New Independent States, Spring <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>, The Washington Quarterly, v23 i2

<span class="underline">Putin's sudden ascendance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. . . . .. .</span> both Russia and the United States.




===Immigration DA=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform UQ now—top of the agenda and Obama push will </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">force</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a compromise</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Estes, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/13, Adam Clark Estes, “Obama's Push for Immigration Reform Starts Now”, http://www.theatlanticwire.com/politics/2013/01/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now/60525/]
Everybody knew that ...//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and singing 'Kumbaya.'"</span>//

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><Link></span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political capital key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dallas Morning News, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/2013, Dallas Morning News, “Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,” [[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]]
President Barack <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span> ... the Press Sunday.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to US competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bush, et al, ’09</span> [7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html]
Our immigration system ... <span style="font-size: 10pt;">residency and citizenship.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great power war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baru, ‘9</span> [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]
Hence, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic policies ... to be seen.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US tech leadership key to collective diplomacy—that solves warming, resource shortages, environmental degradation, food insecurity, terrorism, and proliferation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federoff, USAID Administrator, ‘8</span> (Dr. Nina, April 2, “International Science And Technology Cooperation,” Statement before the Committee on House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, CQ Congressional Testimony)
Chairman Baird, Ranking ... on this issue.

==Ks== 
===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Race K</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We once believed that SILENCE was golden interpreting it to be a precious and valuable commodity. While still viewed as a precious and valuable commodity the color has changed and SILENCE is now the veil and cloak of WHITENESS and WHITE PRIVILEGE</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">DR. CRENSHAW</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">1997</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The struggle against racism will be long</span>

=Negative Strategies= 
==Georgetown== 
===Round 1: Neg vs. Carrolton CW (Icebreakers)=== 
1NC: T-Vehicles, T-Substantial, Privatization CP, Elections DA, Race K
2NR: Race K

===Round 4: Neg vs. Lexington KK (Guam)=== 
1NC: T-In The US, Taiwan Relocation CP, Consult Japan CP, Elections DA, Race K
2NR: T-In The US

===Round 6: Neg vs. Baltimore City College LD (HSR)=== 
1NC: T-Vehicles, Magnetic Levitation CP, Elections DA, Spending DA, Race K
2NR: Elections DA, Case Turns

==Pennsbury Falcon Invitational== 
===Round 1: Neg vs. Stuyvesant AY (JDDSP)=== 
1NC: Race K
2NR: Race K

===Round 3: Neg vs. Edgemont AR (Renewable Rail)=== 
1NC: T-Investment, Congestion Pricing-ITS CP, Immigration DA, Race K
2NR: Congestion Pricing-ITS CP, Immigration DA

=Harvard= 
===Round 2: Neg vs. West Des Moines DS (NIB)=== 
1NC: T-Investment, States CP, Immigration DA, Race K
2NR: Immigration DA, Case

===Round 3: Neg vs. Chandler Prep FT (Natives)=== 
1NC: States CP, Immigration DA, Race K
2NR: States CP, Immigration DA

===Round 5: Neg vs. Lakeland BD (Ports)=== 
1NC: Hirsch CP, Decentralization DA, Immigration DA
2NR: Hirsch CP, Decentralization DA

22nd seed, Sahil was 14th speaker, yet we got DQ'd in doubles!!!
==Lakeland== 
===Round 2: Neg vs. Bronx Science IO (Climate Resiliency)=== 
1NC: Race K
2NR: Race K

===Round 3: Neg vs. Bishop Guertin CS (HTF)=== 
1NC: Monster CP, Immigration DA, Race K
2NR: Monster CP, Immigration DA

===Round 6: Neg vs. Lexington HL (Dredging)=== 
1NC: Basing Strategy-Cancel Futenama CP, Immigration DA, Race K
2NR: Basing Strategy-Cancel Futenama CP, Immigration DA