[[toc]]
=Emails= 
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Aff: martincalen67@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Neg: jjain654@gmail.com</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Debated with Calen Martin at Springwoods and UT</span>

=Aff= 

==1AC TOC== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in and around its military ocean terminals including railways to and from its military ocean terminals.**
<span class="s1">**Contention 1 is Inherency**</span>

**The Strategic Rail Corridor Network is failing now - the DoD’s not investing enough**
<span class="s2">**Kinstlinger 10** </span>(Jack, last revised June 2010, chair of the American Road and Transportation Builder’s Association Railroad/Transit advisory Council, ATRBA is an advocate association of US transportation design and construction, “Railroad/Transit,” http://www.artba.org/advocacy/government-affairs/policy-statements/railroadtransit/)
<span class="s3">ARTBA urges the …….</span><span class="s1"> intermodal transportation system</span><span class="s3">.</span>

**Military Ocean Terminal Inefficiencies kill operational flexibility - crushes mobility and power projection**
<span class="s2">**Mallon and Hwang 05**</span> - Lawrence G. Mallon and John D. Hwang, California State University, Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, Long Beach Foundation, “Strategic Mobility 21: Network Centric Joint Force Deployment and Distribution Process Advanced Logistics Technology Demonstration, Joint Operational Concept,” Stanley Wheatley, Principal Investigator Office of Naval Research, Dr. Paul Rispin, Program Manager, August 5, 2005,[[http://www.ccdott.org/transfer/projresults/2004/task%203.20/task%203.20_2.pdf]])
<span class="s1">DOD is no stranger to …….. coast to the Pacific Rim. </span>
<span class="s1">**Contention 2 is Advantages**</span>


<span class="s1">**Advantage 1 is Iran**</span>

**Scenario 1: Iranian Hegemony**

**Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point is key to naval power in the Gulf**
<span class="s2">**Pike 11** - </span>John, national security analyst and director of GlobalSecurity.org, fork of the Federation of American Scientists. He attended Vanderbilt University as an undergraduate, where he studied technology and public policy. Pike in 1983 established the Space Policy Working Group, composed of Congressional staff and advocacy organizations concerned with missile defense issues. In 1984, he participated in a Congressional Office of Technology Assessment workshop Arms Control in Space. In 1991 he participated in the NASA International Near-Earth Object (NEO) Detection Panel, and consulted for the NEO Working Group of the International Astronomical Union. In 1991 he was awarded the FAS Public Service Award. In 1997, he was awarded the Golden Candle Award, by the Open Source Society. In 1998, he was on the Steering Committee of the Brookings Institution U.S. Nuclear Weapons Cost Study Project. “Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point [MOTSU] Southport, N.C.” Page last modified: 05-07-2011 02:57:13 ZULU ([[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/sunny-point.htm]]) CM
<span class="s1">“Military Ocean Terminal Sunny ………….</span><span class="s3"> rest of the war.</span>

**US naval presence in the Gulf is key to deterring rising Iranian primacy – now is key**
<span class="s2">**Singh 12**</span>– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” <span class="s5">January 3, 2012, <span class="s6">[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]]</span></span>)

<span class="s1">Even if Iran ignored ……….. Tehran think twice. </span>

**Without adequate deterrence of Iran there will be Armageddon in less than ten years**
**Evans 11 -** (Dr. Mike Evans, P.H.D. in political science as well as an award-winning syndicated journalist who has served as a confidant to leaders in the Middle East for more than two decades) March 2011 “Iran Will Go Nuclear in 2011, and Then…” http://myjwn.com/the-war-on-terror/iran-watch/iran-will-go-nuclear-in-2011-and-then%E2%80%A6.)
<span class="s1">The number one ……….Gaza (Iran’s proxies).</span>
**Scenario 2: Strait of Hormuz**

**Iran will close the Strait of Hormuz - perception of quick response ability is key to deter Iran from closing the Strait**
<span class="s2">**Kagan 12**</span>- Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research. (Frederick W., “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated” January 4, 2012, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]])//ALo//
//<span class="s1">Iran's threat to ……… and dangerous provocation.</span>//

//**Hormuz closure causes global oil shocks – wrecks the entire supply chain**//
//<span class="s2">**Blanche 09**</span>(Ed, “Flashpoint Hormuz: US and allies brace for trouble in the choke-point Strait of Hormuz, gateway to the gulf, as regional tension escalates”// The Middle East//, August-September 2009, Gale)
Thestrait is ……….<span class="s7"> 17 to 37 days.</span>

**Oil shocks cause resource wars - the impact is extinction**
<span class="s2">**Heinberg 03** </span>- Professor @ New College, recipient of M.K. Hubbert Award for Energy Excellence Education & Senior Fellow at Post-Carbon Institute, 20<span class="s1">**03**</span> (Richard, The Party’s Over: Oil, War, and the Fate of Industrial Societies, 2003, p. 230)
<span class="s3">Today the average ………</span><span class="s1"> most of the biosphere.</span>

<span class="s1">**Advantage 2 is the Pacific**</span>
**Scenario 1 Island Disputes**

**Growing Sino-Japan tensions over disputed islands risks escalation that entangles the US – crushes the global economy**
<span class="s2">**BBC 13** </span>- 7 February 2013 Last updated at 20:19 ET Share this pageEmailPrint “Viewpoints: How serious are China-Japan tensions?” ([[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-21290349]]) CM Christopher Hughes Professor of International Politics and Japanese Studies at the University of Warwick in the UK Previous positions include Hiroshima University, Tokyo University, International Institute for Strategic Studies Areas of expertise include Japanese foreign and security policy, regionalism in East Asia Victor Gao Director of the China National Association of International Studies, linked to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs Former translator to Deng Xiaoping Tetsuo Kotani Research Fellow, Japan Institute of International Affairs (JIIA), a think-tank with close links to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Areas of expertise include maritime security, Japan-US alliance Richard Bush Director, Centre for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, Brookings Institution Career spans US Congress, the intelligence community and the US State Department Areas of expertise include China-Taiwan relations, US-China relations, the Korean peninsula and Japan's security Lye Liang Fook Assistant Director, East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore Areas of expertise include China-Asean relations Formerly an officer with Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs
<span class="s1">**The situation is …….** its national interests</span><span class="s3">. </span>

**Military Ocean Terminal Concord is key to readiness in the Pacific – solves conflict**
<span class="s2">**Pike 11 -** </span>John, national security analyst and director of GlobalSecurity.org, fork of the Federation of American Scientists. He attended Vanderbilt University as an undergraduate, where he studied technology and public policy. Pike in 1983 established the Space Policy Working Group, composed of Congressional staff and advocacy organizations concerned with missile defense issues. In 1984, he participated in a Congressional Office of Technology Assessment workshop Arms Control in Space. In 1991 he participated in the NASA International Near-Earth Object (NEO) Detection Panel, and consulted for the NEO Working Group of the International Astronomical Union. In 1991 he was awarded the FAS Public Service Award. In 1997, he was awarded the Golden Candle Award, by the Open Source Society. In 1998, he was on the Steering Committee of the Brookings Institution U.S. Nuclear Weapons Cost Study Project.Page last modified: 05-07-2011 02:46:20 ZULU “[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/concord.htm|Naval Weapons Station (NAVWPNSTA), Concord, California]]” ([[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/concord.htm]]) CM
<span class="s1">Naval Weapons Station (WPNSTA) ……. for naval ammunition</span><span class="s3">. </span>

**Pacific naval readiness solve – contains China and forces peaceful cooperation over the islands**
<span class="s2">**Gertz 12** </span>– “The Great Pacific Panic” <span class="s8">“Pacific Commander: U.S. declines support for Asian allies in sea disputes with increasingly aggressive China**”** BY: <span class="s6">[[http://freebeacon.com/author/bill-gertz/%22%20%5Co%20%22View%20all%20posts%20by%20Bill%20Gertz|Bill Gertz]]</span> December 6, 2012 6:00 pm (http://freebeacon.com/the-great-pacific-panic/) </span>Bill Gertz is senior editor of the Washington Free Beacon. Prior to joining the Beacon he was a national security reporter, editor, and columnist for 27 years at the Washington Times. Bill is the author of six books, four of which were national bestsellers. His most recent book was The Failure Factory, a look at an out-of-control government bureaucracy that could have been a primer for the Tea Party. Bill has an international reputation. Vyachaslav Trubnikov, head of the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, once called him a “tool of the CIA” after he wrote an article exposing Russian intelligence operations in the Balkans. A senior CIA official once threatened to have a cruise missile fired at his desk after he wrote a column critical of the CIA’s analysis of China. And China’s communist government has criticized him for news reports exposing China’s weapons and missile sales to rogues states. The state-run Xinhua news agency in 2006 identified Bill as the No. 1 “anti-China expert” in the world. Bill insists he is very much pro-China—pro-Chinese people and opposed to the communist system. CM
<span class="s1">The United States is …….. necessary to do that</span><span class="s3">.”</span>

<span class="s9">**Eas**</span>**t**<span class="s9">**Chin**</span>**a**<span class="s9">**Se**</span>**a**<span class="s9">**disput**</span>**e**<span class="s9">**lead**</span>**s**<span class="s9">**t**</span>**o**<span class="s9">**globa**</span>**l**<span class="s9">**nuclea**</span>**r**<span class="s9">**wa**</span>**r**<span class="s9">**wit**</span>**h**<span class="s9">**Chin**</span>**a**
<span class="s13">**Santol**</span><span class="s2">**i**</span><span class="s13">0</span><span class="s2">**5**</span><span class="s12">**-**</span><span class="s9">(Al</span>,<span class="s9">November</span>,<span class="s9">Asi</span>a<span class="s9">Americ</span>a<span class="s9">Initiative</span>,<span class="s9">decorate</span>d<span class="s9">Vietna</span>m<span class="s9">veteran</span>,<span class="s9">autho</span>r<span class="s9">an</span>d<span class="s9">founde</span>r<span class="s9">o</span>f<span class="s9">th</span>e<span class="s9">Asia</span>
<span class="s9">A</span><span class="s16">m</span><span class="s9">eric</span>a<span class="s9">Initiative</span>,<span class="s16"> <span class="s9">[[http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/|http://www.asiaa]]</span>[[http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/|m]]<span class="s9">[[http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/|erica.org/publications/cif/cif-08-2005.htm]]</span></span>)
<span class="s9">O</span>n<span class="s9"> Nove</span><span class="s16">m</span><span class="s9">be</span>r<span class="s9">4</span>, <span class="s9">Tokyo'</span>s<span class="s9"> …….dependabl</span>e<span class="s16">m</span><span class="s9">ilitar</span>y<span class="s9">ally</span>.
**Scenario 2 North Korea**

**North Korea tensions are on the brink – risks escalation and miscalculation**
<span class="s2">**Mullen and Shoichet 13** </span>- North Korea readying rockets to aim at U.S. targets, state media says By Jethro Mullen and Catherine E. Shoichet, CNN updated 6:35 AM EDT, Fri March 29, 2013 (http://www.cnn.com/2013/03/28/world/asia/north-korea-us-threats/)CM
<span class="s7">North Korea is a</span> “<span class="s7">……..</span> it hasn’t happened.”

**We’ve already begun shifting a guided missile destroyer to the region and there was no aggressive reaction from North Korea – takes out all of your turns**
<span class="s2">**Miklaszewski 13** </span>- Navy in North Korea Tuesday, April 2, 2013 By: Jim Miklaszewski, NBC News US Navy shifts destroyer in wake of North Korea missile threats (http://www.pointofview.net/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=22333)CM
<span class="s1">The U.S. Navy ……. forces</span><span class="s3">," Carney said</span>

**Additional conventional use of Naval power is the only way to prevent conflict escalation – deters North Korea without provoking strikes**
<span class="s2">**Talent 13** </span>- Strength Will Deter Provocations by North Korea By Jim Talent April 8, 2013 -Jim Talent served on the Senate Armed Services Committee and is currently a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation and co-chair of the American Freedom and Enterprise Foundation. (http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2013/4/strength-will-deter-provocations-by-north-korea)CM
<span class="s7">There’s a reason …….</span> rattle their sabers.

<span class="s2">**Korean strikes lead to environmental destruction, nuclear retaliation, wildfire proliferation, and global war**</span>

<span class="s2"> **Hayes and Green 9** </span>**-** (December, Peter and Michael, “The path not taken, the way still open: Denuclearizing the Korean peninsula and Northeast Asia,” Nautilus Institute, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)
<span class="s7">The consequences of …..</span> the international community.
<span class="s1">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span>

**Strategic Railroad Network Program solves - provides MOT’s with all needed equipment**
<span class="s2">**Pike 12**</span>(John, national security analyst and director of GlobalSecurity.org, fork of the Federation of American Scientists. He attended Vanderbilt University as an undergraduate, where he studied technology and public policy. Pike in 1983 established the Space Policy Working Group, composed of Congressional staff and advocacy organizations concerned with missile defense issues. In 1984, he participated in a Congressional Office of Technology Assessment workshop Arms Control in Space. In 1991 he participated in the NASA International Near-Earth Object (NEO) Detection Panel, and consulted for the NEO Working Group of the International Astronomical Union. In 1991 he was awarded the FAS Public Service Award. In 1997, he was awarded the Golden Candle Award, by the Open Source Society. In 1998, he was on the Steering Committee of the Brookings Institution U.S. Nuclear Weapons Cost Study Project. “Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET),” last modified January 10th, 2012, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm]])
During the Great War, <span class="s7">…….</span> 170 defense installations.

**Effective Military Ocean Terminals are pre-requisites to over 90 percent of our sealift capability**
<span class="s2">**VanHoosen 97**</span> [Paul VanHoosen, Lieutenant Commander, February 7, 1997, “MILITARY OCEAN TERMINALS WHO NEEDS THEM?”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA325154]]]
With these actions……. profile CINC customer.

**Overseas contingency budgets can be used as a DoD slush fund to independently fund base programs outside the Congressional budgeting process**
<span class="s2">**Murdock 12 -** </span>[Clark Murdock, Center for Strategic and International Studies, with Ryan A. Crotty Kelley Sayler “Planning for a Deep Defense Drawdown—Part I” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/120522_DD_Interim_Report.pdf]]]
The defense budget comes in many forms and in order to maintain consistency, the budget used in this baseline needs to be clarified. <span class="s7">The variation between ………</span>Department of Defense spending.

**The Defense Department is key – only specialized military agencies have the knowledge to coordinate the plan**
<span class="s2">**Korpanty 01**</span> - (Robert S. Korpanty is a licensed professional engineer employed by the Military Traffic Management Command Transportation Engineering Agency in Newport News, Virginia. He has a master's degree in systems management from the University of Southern California. He is a lieutenant colonel in the Army Reserve and is assigned as the commander of a military police unit training battalion. http://www.almc.army.mil/alog/issues/NovDec99/MS455.htm)
Without a reliable …..<span class="s7"> costs to DOD. </span>

**Only the plan solves China war – naval power forces cooperation and relations in the islands**
Alvin S. <span class="s7">**Felzenberg and**</span> Alexander B. <span class="s7">**Gray**</span>, January 3rd, 20<span class="s7">**11**</span>, professorial lecturer and student at The Elliot School of International Affairs at George Washington University, “The New Isolationism,” [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/256150/new-isolationism-alvin-s-felzenberg]] vk
Anything Reps. Ron Paul (R., Tex.) …….<span class="s7"> and to its security.</span>
===1AC St. Marks Round 4=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure for Defense Access Roads and railways to and from its military ocean terminals.**

**Same Advantages from Round 1 of st.marks**

===1AC-St. Marks Round 1=== 

====**Plan Text**==== 

**Plan: The United States Department of Defense should substantially increase its investment in Military Sealift Command and Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command for Defense Access Roads and railways to and from its military ocean terminals.**



====**Logistics**==== 

**Contention One is LOGISTICS**

**Navy Logistics is everything that supports and is necessary to naval operations**
<span class="s1">**Applegate 06** </span>[Keith A.;, Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, Professor at naval postgrad school; “Naval Expeditionary Logistics: <span class="s2">¶ </span>A Handbook for Complementing and <span class="s2">¶ </span>Supporting Land Forces”;http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA457829]//JJ//

//A number of definitions ……… and execution.//



//**MSC is key to naval agility**//
//**Buzby 12**Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy Commander, Military Sealift Command (Mark H., “S•E•A•L•I•F•T: The U. S. Navy’ s Military Sealift Command”, March 2012, http://www.sealiftcommand.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Sealift-2012-03.pdf) RaPa//

//<span class="s3">While DOD is looking ………</span>are headed our way//



//**Infrastructure limitations can add almost 2 weeks to critical ammunition shipments – ensuring broadened transport capability is key to avoid strategic bottlenecks**//
//Paul **Murphy** (Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) **1999** “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314//

//V. Ammunition Port Restrictions//
//What throughput <span class="s4">**limitations …….**</span> to get into a berth.//

//**These bottlenecks crush our military’s surge deployment capability –effective MoTs are pre-requisites to over 90 percent of our sealift capability**//
//<span class="s5">**VanHoosen 97**</span> [Paul VanHoosen, Lieutenant Commander, February 7, 1997, “MILITARY OCEAN TERMINALS WHO NEEDS THEM?”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA325154]]]//

//With these actions, ………, high profile CINC customer.//



//**Err on the side of caution – overinvestment is better than underinvestment – otherwise we develop a false sense of security – hollows out our entire military capability**//
//<span class="s5">**Fogleman 94**</span>- MA in military history and pol sci, former chief of staff of the Air Force (Ronald R., “Reengineering Defense Transportation,” DTIC, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA528899)//mat]]//

//The ability of Assyria …….could never have blossomed.”//



//**This is particularly true NOW – investment in our strategic mobility infrastructure is key to efficiency – acts as a force multiplier in the face of budgetary cuts elsewhere**//
//<span class="s5">**McNabb 11**</span>- retired Air Force general (Duncan J., “We Measure Success Through the Eyes of the War Fighter,” Air and Space Power Journal, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a555500.pdf]])//mat

Strategic Context Demands ………<span class="s4"> to enable global reach.</span>



====**Pacific**==== 

**Contention Two is the Pacific**

**Logistical superiority is key to USPACOMs effectiveness – otherwise the US will be overwhelmed in the theatre with regional contingencies**
<span class="s1">**Keating 09**</span> [Timothy J. Keating, //retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM//, March 19, 2009, “ STATEMENT OF ADMIRAL TIMOTHY J. KEATING, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND POSTURE”, PACOM, [[http://www.pacom.mil/web/pacom_resources/pdf/19MAR09%20PACOM%20SASC%20Posture%20Statement.pdf]], DMintz]

<span class="s6">Advocacy of programs ………</span><span class="s3"> and multi-nation operations.</span>



**Military Ocean Terminal infrastructure upgrades are critical to USPACOM effectiveness**
**Fraser 12** [William Fraser, February 28, 2012, “Statement of General William Fraser, USAF Commander, United States Transportation Command Before the Senate Armed Services Committee On the State of the Command”, United States Transportation Command, [[http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2012/02%20February/Fraser%2002-28-12.pdf]], DMintz]

<span class="s3">Infrastructure improvement projects …….. in the Pacific Theater.</span>



**Otherwise we will be completely absent in the pacific-logistics are key**
**Gulledge and Keating 10** [Jay Gulledge, //Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville,// Timothy J. Keating, //retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM,// 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345, [[http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf]], DMintz]

***All text is from Timothy J. Keating**

**<span class="s6">The instrument of ………</span><span class="s3">success in the region.</span>**


**US maritime deployment credibility and strength is key to prevent war in the South China Sea – key to force peaceful cooperation**
Cronin and Kaplan 12 **[Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Robert D. Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, January 2012, “Cooperation from Strength The United States, China and the South China Sea”, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_CooperationFromStrength_Cronin_1.pdf]], DMintz]**

**There is an ineluctable ………. by the same set of rules.**

**The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts**
**Straits Times 2k (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)**

**<span class="s6">The high-intensity ……….</span><span class="s3"> destruction of civilisation.</span>**

====**Iran**==== 

Contention Three is Iran

Highest probability for conflict – lack of dialogue means miscalculation is likely
Bennett 2012– **(John T., veteran national security correspondent “U.S., Iran Lack 'Dialogue' to Avoid a Costly Miscalculation” [[http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/01/31/us-iran-lack-dialogue-to-avoid-a-costly-miscalculation)//ALo|http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/01/31/us-iran-lack-dialogue-to-avoid-a-costly-miscalculation)]]**

**<span class="s4">U.S. and Iranian ………</span>administration's Iran policies.**



Scenario 1: Iranian Hegemony

US naval presence key to deterring Iranian primacy
Singh 2012 **– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” <span class="s7">January 3, 2012, </span><span class="s8">[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]]</span>)**

**Even if Iran ignored ……… makes Tehran think twice.**



Iranian hegemony causes regional nuclear war
Ben-Meir 2007– **Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/**

**NEW YORK, Feb. 6 (UPI) -- That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every sphere of American influence in the Middle East attests to the dismal failure of the Bush administration's policy toward it during the last six years.<span class="s4"> Feeling emboldened and ……..</span> its nuclear program.**



Scenario 2: Strait of Hormuz
Perception of quick response ability is key to deter Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz
Kagan 2012 **- Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.****(Frederick W., “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”** **January 4, 2012, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]])//ALo//**

**//Iran's threat to ….. and dangerous provocation.//**



//Even short term Hormuz closure causes global economic disruption and oil shocks – no other regional oil transport can check.//
//Blanche 2009 **(Ed, “Flashpoint Hormuz: US and allies brace for trouble in the choke-point Strait of Hormuz, gateway to the gulf, as regional tension escalates”**// **The Middle East//, August-September 2009, Gale)//**

**//Thestrait is a 180km-……..<span class="s4">17 to 37 days.</span>//**





**//Oil shocks will result in great power conflicts. This independently makes US-Sino war inevitable─//**
//**<span class="s1">King 8</span> [Neil King, Jr. “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series. July 2008. http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]**//

//**Many commentators ……could turn nasty.**//



====**//Arctic//**==== 

//Contention Four is Arctic//

//Arctic conflict is likely – trade ties don’t check and Russia’s nationalist interests outweigh their defense.//
//Zellen 2011 **(Barry S. “Cold Front on a Warming Arctic” United States Naval Institute. Proceedings 137. 5 (May 2011): 45-49, ProQuest)**//**ALo**

**In its sector of the Arctic………. of securing the Arctic.**



Military readiness key to prevent arctic resource conflict – alliances don’t check.
Goldenberg 2011 **– US environment correspondent (Suzanne, “Prepare for Arctic struggle as climate changes, US navy warned: Climate change could upset the delicate security balance in the Arctic, warns National Academy of Sciences report” Thursday 10 March 2011, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/10/arctic-struggle-climate-change]])**

**America urgently ……. implications of climate change.**


Escalates to nuclear conflict with Russia.
Wallace & Staples 2010***Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia** President of the Rideau Institute (Michael and Steven, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010, <span class="s10">[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]</span>)

The fact is, <span class="s4">the Arctic is ………</span> Arctic because of climate change.” 62


**US-Russian nuclear war causes extinction – outweighs on timeframe and magnitude.**
<span class="s1">**Helfand and Pastore 2009**</span>(Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility, March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)

<span class="s6">President</span> <span class="s3">Obama and</span> <span class="s6">Russian ………</span><span class="s3"> remains in place today.</span>



====**Solvency**==== 

**Contention Five is Solvency**

**Military Ocean Terminal usage is ramping up now – uncertain funding will hamstring ammunition transports**
**Keating and Sommerhauser 12** (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf]]

<span class="s3">**Ammunition port workload …….future funding levels are, of course, uncertain.**</span>



**Current funding structure guarantees rampant price volatility - Creating a stable funding structure for ammunition port infrastructure can prevent it – ONLY the military can solve**
<span class="s1">**Keating and Sommerhauser 12**</span> (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf,

Here we set forth criteria to evaluate prospective port funding arrangements (appropriation,

working capital fund, some hybridization thereof).

<span class="s6">One criterion we ……..</span><span class="s3"> **done by government operated depots.3**</span>



**Transportation infrastructure to Military Ocean Terminals is necessary to ensure efficient response times and prevent logistical nightmares**
**HDR 04** (HDR Engineering, global firm providing architecture, engineering, consulting, construction and related services, “Economic Feasibility Study for the Restoration of the Wallace to Castle Hayne Rail Corridor and Associated Port/Rail Improvements,” North Carolina Department of Transportation Rail Division, February 2004, http://www.bytrain.org/quicklinks/reports/WtoWEconomicStudy.pdf, Sawyer)

5.5.5 Military Ocean Terminal ………… benefit in the analysis.


===1AC-Grapevine/Greenhill=== 



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan</span>****<span style="font-size: 13pt;">: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for transportation infrastructure for the Defense Transportation System in and around its military ocean terminals.</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Advantage One is Strategic Mobility</span>**

**Global crises are inevitable – There will inevitably be international contingencies that will require rapid military responses**
Ward **Wilson** (former Fellow at the Robert Kennedy Memorial Foundation) **2006** “Rationale for a study of City Annihilations,” http://wardhayeswilson.squarespace.com/city_annihilation/

One of the characteristics of

__AND__

risk and rationality

**Infrastructure limitations can add almost 2 weeks to critical ammunition shipments – ensuring broadened transport capability is key to avoid strategic bottlenecks**

Paul **Murphy** (Major, United States Airforce, MA in Mobility Studies) **1999** “THE AVAILABILITY OF CONTAINER SHIPPING NEEDED TO MEET WARTIME AMMUNITION SUSTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA372314

V. Ammunition Port Restrictions
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What throughput</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">into a berth.</span>

**These bottlenecks crush our military’s surge deployment capability –effective MoTs are pre-requisites to over 90 percent of our sealift capability**
**VanHoosen 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Paul VanHoosen, Lieutenant Commander, February 7, 1997, “MILITARY OCEAN TERMINALS WHO NEEDS THEM?”, Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA325154]],</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">With these actions</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">profile CINC customer.</span>



**Err on the side of caution – overinvestment is better than underinvestment – otherwise we develop a false sense of security – hollows out our entire military capability**
**Fogleman 94**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- MA in military history and pol sci, former chief of staff of the Air Force (Ronald R., “Reengineering Defense Transportation,” DTIC, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA528899)//mat]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The ability of</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">never have blossomed.”</span>



**This is particularly true NOW – investment in our strategic mobility infrastructure is key to efficiency – acts as a force multiplier in the face of budgetary cuts elsewhere**
**McNabb 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- retired Air Force general (Duncan J., “We Measure Success Through the Eyes of the War Fighter,” Air and Space Power Journal, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a555500.pdf]])//mat//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Strategic Context Demands</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AND</span>//

//__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">enable global reach.</span>__//

//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This is key to overall deterrence and conflict de-escalation – we control ceiling on all war impacts</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Hickins 09</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(COLONEL KENNETH, United States Army, March 30, 2009, “STRATEGIC MOBILITY: FORGOTTEN CRITICAL REQUIREMENT OF THE CONTEMPORARY OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT”, http://www.dtic.mil.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA494718</span>///TS)

<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">As I</span>__</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">and strategic success</span>__</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Advantage Two is the Pacific</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Logistical superiority is key to USPACOMs effectiveness – otherwise the US will be overwhelmed in the theatre with regional contingencies</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keating 09</span>** [Timothy J. Keating, //retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM//, March 19, 2009, “ STATEMENT OF ADMIRAL TIMOTHY J. KEATING, U.S. NAVY COMMANDER U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND BEFORE THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND POSTURE”, PACOM, [[http://www.pacom.mil/web/pacom_resources/pdf/19MAR09%20PACOM%20SASC%20Posture%20Statement.pdf]], DMintz]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Advocacy of programs</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

__multi-nation operations.__



**Military Ocean Terminal infrastructure upgrades are critical to USPACOM effectiveness**
**Fraser 12** [William Fraser, February 28, 2012, “Statement of General William Fraser, USAF Commander, United States Transportation Command Before the Senate Armed Services Committee On the State of the Command”, United States Transportation Command, [[http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2012/02%20February/Fraser%2002-28-12.pdf]], DMintz]

__Infrastructure improvement projects__

AND

__the Pacific Theater.__



**Otherwise we will be completely absent in the pacific-logistics are key**
**Gulledge and Keating 10** [Jay Gulledge, //Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville,// Timothy J. Keating, //retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM,// 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345, [[http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf]], DMintz]

***All text is from Timoth y J. Keating**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The instrument of</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**__success in the region.__**



Two Impact Scenarios
First is South China Sea

US maritime deployment credibility and strength is key to prevent war in the South China Sea – key to force peaceful cooperation
Cronin and Kaplan 12 **[Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Robert D. Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, January 2012, “Cooperation from Strength The United States, China and the South China Sea”, Center for New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_CooperationFromStrength_Cronin_1.pdf]], DMintz]**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is an</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">set of rules.</span>**



The impact is multiple nuclear conflicts
Straits Times 2k **<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**__destruction of civilisation.__**



Scenario Two is Korea

North Korean conflict is inevitable – having the capability to project forces is key to prevent conflict
Chi-dong 12 **[Lee Chi-dong, June 8, 2012, “NK proliferation threatens both U.S. and China: Panetta”, Yonhap, [[http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2012/06/08/52/0301000000AEN20120608000400315F.HTML]], DMintz]**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**that<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said.</span>**



Korean war goes nuclear
De Luce 10 **[Dan de Luce, November 25, 2010, “War with North Korea Poses Nightmare Scenarios” AFP, [[http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/global-filipino/world/11/25/10/war-north-korea-poses-nightmare-scenarios]]]**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A full-blown</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">first nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**



Advantage Three is Iran

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Highest probability for conflict – lack of dialogue means miscalculation is likely</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bennett </span>2012– **(John T., veteran national security correspondent “U.S., Iran Lack 'Dialogue' to Avoid a Costly Miscalculation” [[http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/01/31/us-iran-lack-dialogue-to-avoid-a-costly-miscalculation)//ALo|http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/01/31/us-iran-lack-dialogue-to-avoid-a-costly-miscalculation)]]**

**__U.S. and__**

**__AND__**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">administration's Iran policies.</span>**



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1: Iranian Hegemony</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US naval presence key to deterring Iranian primacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Singh 2012</span> **– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, “The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf” <span style="color: #333333;">January 3, 2012, </span>[[http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf]])**



**__Even if__**

**__AND__**

**__Tehran think twice.__**



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Iranian hegemony causes regional nuclear war</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ben-Meir 2007</span>** – **Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, “Realpolitik: Ending Iran's defiance”, 2/6/12, UPI, , http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK, Feb. 6 (UPI) –</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">its nuclear program.</span>**





<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 2: Strait of Hormuz</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perception of quick response ability is key to deter Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 2012</span> **- Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.**

**(Frederick W., “Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won't be tolerated”**

**January 4, 2012, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]])//ALo//**


**//__Iran's threat to__//**

**//__AND__//**

**//__and dangerous provocation.__//**



//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Even short term Hormuz closure causes global economic disruption and oil shocks – no other regional oil transport can check.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blanche 2009</span> **(Ed, “Flashpoint Hormuz: US and allies brace for trouble in the choke-point Strait of Hormuz, gateway to the gulf, as regional tension escalates”**// **The Middle East//, August-September 2009, Gale)**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The strait is</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**__17 to 37 days.__**





<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Continued dependence and oil shocks will result in great power conflicts and rapid warming. This independently makes US-Sino war inevitable</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">─</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">King 8</span> [Neil King, Jr. “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series. July 2008. http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]**

**__Many commentators in__**

**__AND__**

**__could turn nasty.__**



Contention Two is Solvency

Military Ocean Terminal usage is ramping up now – uncertain funding will hamstring ammunition transports
Keating and Sommerhauser 12 **(Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf]]**


**Ammunition port workload**

**AND**

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, of course, </span>uncertain<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>**


Current funding structure guarantees rampant price volatility - Creating a stable funding structure for ammunition port infrastructure can prevent it – ONLY the military can solve
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keating and Sommerhauser 12</span> (Edward G. Keating, professor at the Pardee RAND Graduate School, senior economist specializing in defense economics issues, PhD, economic analysis, Stanford University, Daniel Sommerhauser, Statistical Project Associate in the Statistical Research and Consulting Group, RAND, MA, statistics, University of Missouri, “Funding Ammunition Ports,” RAND, Technical Report, Arroyo Center, 2012, http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/technical_reports/2012/RAND_TR1204.pdf,**

**Here we set forth criteria to evaluate prospective port funding arrangements (appropriation,**

**working capital fund, some hybridization thereof).**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One criterion we</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**government operated depots<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.3</span>**



Transportation infrastructure to Military Ocean Terminals is necessary to ensure efficient response times and prevent logistical nightmares
HDR 04** (HDR Engineering, global firm providing architecture, engineering, consulting, construction and related services, “Economic Feasibility Study for the Restoration of the Wallace to Castle Hayne Rail Corridor and Associated Port/Rail Improvements,” North Carolina Department of Transportation Rail Division, February 2004, http://www.bytrain.org/quicklinks/reports/WtoWEconomicStudy.pdf, Sawyer)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5.5.5 Military Ocean Terminal</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">benefit in the analysis.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC T</span>=== 

**We Meet-dual use**
<span class="s1">**Global Security 12**</span>[“Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET)”;http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm;October 1, 2012]//JJ
Under its Railroads ……… oversize (high/wide) loads


**Counterinterp – DTS is transportation infrastructure**
<span class="s1">**Fairbanks 96**</span>(D. Fairbanks, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, “DoD Transportation Engineering,” April 1996, DoD Directive 4510.11, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA306890, Sawyer)
2. <span class="s2">D</span>efense <span class="s2">T</span>ransportation <span class="s2">S</span>ystem…………. Also called DTS.

===2AC Politics=== 

**Won’t reach a deal on the cliff and there’s nothing Obama can do about it – 8 reasons**
<span class="s1">**Davis 11/26/12** </span>– “8 things that could kill a fiscal cliff deal” By Pete Davis @CNNMoney November 26, 2012: 8:59 AM ET Pete Davis is president of Davis Capital Investment Ideas. He worked for Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill, serving as an economist for the Joint Committee on Taxation and the Senate Budget Committee. ([[http://money.cnn.com/2012/11/26/news/economy/fiscal-cliff-deal-talks/index.html]]) CM
<span class="s2">Despite what the ……..</span> accept a bad deal.


**No unique and turn: The GOP supports defense spending—They are attacking Obama for proposed cuts**
<span class="s1">**Air Talk 2012 -** </span>[8.29, “Is the Pentagon no longer a sacred cow?”
http://www.scpr.org/programs/airtalk/2012/08/29/28105/pentagon-no-longer-sacred-cow/
Both Mitt <span class="s2">Romney and</span> ……… chopping block instead.

**US ECONOMY WILL SURVIVE FISCAL CLIFF – BARCLAYS CAPITAL, SCHRODERS OF LONDON CONFIRM**
<span class="s1">**Rapoza 11/26** - </span>(Kenneth Rapoza, Forbes contributing economic correspondent, “Economic End Times Not So Near, U.S. Seen Surviving ‘Fiscal Cliff”) [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2012/11/26/economic-end-times-not-so-near-u-s-seen-surviving-fiscal-cliff/]]
The U.S. fiscal cliff — ………<span class="s2"> **of the world**</span>either.

**Winners Win**
<span class="s1">**Singer 09** </span>(Jonathan, senior writer for the popular progressive blog MyDD, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital”, March 3, p. [[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]])
<span class="s4">Peter Hart gets at ……… the war in Iraq.</span>


**Political capital is irrelevant**
<span class="s1">**Edwards 09**</span> (George, Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M University, holds the George and Julia Blucher Jordan Chair in Presidential Studies and has served as the Olin Professor of American Government at Oxford, “The Strategic President,” Printed by the Princeton University Press, pg. 149-150)
<span class="s4">Even presidents who …….</span><span class="s5"> in each chamber.</span>


===2AC Spending=== 
**2. DA turns itself – reducing deficits using cuts only makes job security worse and slows GDP growth which are key to solve deficits**
**Coates 9/22** (David Coates, Worrell Professor of Anglo-American Studies @ Wake Forest University, Department of Politics, “A Progressive Primer on the Issue of America's Debt Problem - Ten Things You Really Need to Know,” Posted: 09/22/2012 9:01 am, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-coates/a-progressive-primer-on-t_b_1905655.html)

So who is right? ………… of deficit reduction.

**8. Defense spending is key to jobs and the economy**
<span class="s1">**Bucci 8-29**</span>[Stephen P.; the senior research fellow for defense and homeland security at the Heritage Foundation; “Cutting Defense Won’t Fix the Budget”; http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2012/08/29/is-the-deficit-urgent-or-a-distraction/cutting-defense-wont-fix-the-budget]//JJ

If our leaders ……. to accept them.




=Negative= 

==Topicality== 
===Substantial=== 
**Interpretation: Substantially should be defined by context**
<span class="s1">**Devinsky, 2**</span> (Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)

In reversing a ……. the patent documents."


**Transportation infrastructure investment is $225 billion.**
**Future**, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 20**09**, [“Creating America's Future Transportation System” Publisher, <http://www.transportation1.org/policy_future/PageII.html>]
Surface <span class="s2">**transportation …….**</span> our national needs
**Violation: plan costs 125 Billion dollars**
<span class="s3">**Wasik 2009**</span> [John finance columnist for Bloomberg News, Reuters, and author of 13 books. //The Audacity of Help: Obama's Economic Plan and the Remaking of America// pg. 47]

Brownfield Reclamation. Places ……<span class="s2"> **locks is $125 billion**</span><span class="s4">.</span>

===**Not Military**=== 

**A. Violation –**
**Infrastructure is physical capital that provides** <span class="s1">**public services**</span> **– it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6** – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM

<span class="s2">One way to ………</span> modalities and utilitcies.

**Transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating** <span class="s1">**private economic activity**</span>
**Musick, 10** – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”
[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]


Although different definitions ……… Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).

===Pipelines=== 

**Interpretation – transportation infrastructure is roadways, railways, harbors, airports, railroads, and highways – pipeline are explicitly excluded**
<span class="s1">**United States Chamber of Commerce, 10**</span> (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)//dm
Step 1 – Definition: <span class="s1">**Transportation Infrastructure**</span> ……. <span class="s1">**marine**</span>, <span class="s1">**and intermodal.**</span>

==Disadvantages== 
===**Elections**=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**Obama winning now-democratic convention and he has an 80% chance of winning**
<span class="s3">**Silver 9-13**</span><span class="s4">[Nate; </span>538 Blogs, Accurately predicted 49/50 states in 08 election; American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer; “Reaction to Libya Attack Could Color Poll Analysis, and Vice Versa”; http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/13/reaction-to-libya-attacks-could-color-poll-analysis-and-vice-versa/#more-34469]//JJ

Wednesday’s polling data …….<span class="s2"> **the Electoral College.**</span>

**Federal transportation investment is unpopular and can turn the election – empirically Obama gets blamed**
<span class="s3">**USC News 12**</span> [“Transit Policy Is Pivotal on Road to the White House”, [[http://news.usc.edu/%22%20%5Cl%20%22!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/|http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/]]; 4-17]

Following decades of bipartisan consensus…….<span class="s2"> **country in financial trouble.**</span>

**New policy changes can swing the election – neither candidate is doing anything drastic for fear of rocking the boat**
<span class="s3">**Haberman 12**</span> (Maggie, Maggie Haberman is a Senior Political Writer for POLITICO. Prior to that, she worked at the New York Post, where she covered the 2008 presidential election, along with numerous state, city and congressional races. She also worked at the New York Daily News, Politico, [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=5C8C5397-AD4C-43B0-9F71-CD10D4B74CE3]])

With the Supreme Court ……….<span class="s2"> **change the trajectory**</span>.”

**Romney would kill relations with Russia – missile defense, withdrawal from New START, NATO expansion, and increased involvement in the Ukraine and Central Asia**
<span class="s3">**Moscow Times 10/14**</span> (http://www.themoscowtimes.com/mobile/article/445482.html)
Meanwhile, Mitt <span class="s2">**Romney has ……..**</span> after the 2012 elections.

<span class="s3">**Romney kills Russian relations and causes war**</span>
<span class="s3">**Richter 7/2**</span> (Paul, LA Times, July 2, 2012, “Russian official: Romney’s hard line could bring ‘full-scale crisis’,” latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-russian-official-romneys-hard-line-could-bring-fullscale-crisis-20120702,0,4689534.story)
<span class="s5">MOSCOW -- Mitt </span><span class="s6">**Romney’s comment ………. term, Pushkov said**</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Extinction**
<span class="s1">**Bostrom**</span><span class="s2">**,** Prof Oxford**, 20**</span><span class="s1">**02**</span><span class="s2">**(**Nick, March, 2002 </span><span class="s3">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span><span class="s2">)</span>
<span class="s2">A much greater ……… </span><span class="s4">**humankind’s potential permanently**</span><span class="s2">.</span>


===Steel DA (Creds to Kevin)=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**Despite high steel output, shortages of steel ore are coming – it’ll destroy production Malhotra 12**<span class="s1"> [May 22, TC: Writer for Metal Miner, Sourcing & Trading Intelligence for global metal markets “JSW Steel Reports Highest-Ever Production Numbers in 2012” ([[http://agmetalminer.com/2012/05/22/jsw-steel-reports-highest-ever-production-numbers-2012/]]) [KC]</span>
India’s steel manufacturer, ………<span class="s2"> material, iron ore.</span>

**Pipelines compete with steel**
**EPA 10** [“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” (http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf)]

Modeling of the ………….<span class="s2"> **such as** steel</span>.

<span class="s3">**Steel is key to military power projection**</span>
<span class="s3">**Waller 1** </span>[Michael, writer for Business CBS “US in a Steel Trap” (
http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=22c7035d-8a44-44fc-aec2-d86be52c1b7e%40sessionmgr113&vid=2&hid=110&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=f5h&AN=5134354)
[KC]
<span class="s2">The domestic </span>steel……….<span class="s2"> domestic iron ore.</span>

**A decline in power projection causes multiple nuclear wars**
**Kagan 11**<span class="s2"> **-**</span> Senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, Robert, “The Price of Power”, Weekly Standard, 1-24, http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3

<span class="s2">American forces deployed </span>……….<span class="s2">not prevent it.</span>

===Fiscal Cliff=== 

====**1NC**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fiscal Cliff will be resolved-investors prove</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inman 11-30[</span>Daniel; “3rd UPDATE: Japan Leads Asia Rally In November; China Slumps”; http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20121130-702623.html]//Jjain

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the start of the month, ............ to a record high.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama’s political capital is key to compromise on fiscal cliff – now is key while he still has post-election bounce</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kalb 11/08</span> (“An Overture to Romney,” Marvin Kalb, Guest Scholar, Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institute, Current Positions: James Clark Welling Presidential Fellow, The George Washington University Edward R. Murrow Professor of Practice (Emeritus), Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University Contributing News Analyst, National Public Radio Contributing News Analyst, Fox News Channel Past Positions Reporter and Commentator, CBS News Reporter and Commentator, NBC News Chief Diplomatic Correspondent, NBC News Moscow Bureau Chief, NBC News Host, Meet the Press, NBC News Founding Director, Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, B.A. from City College of New York and M.A. from Harvard University, November 8, 2012, 2:30pm, http://www.brookings.edu/blogs/up-front/posts/2012/11/08-romney-kalb)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conservative critics, gloomy ............</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The stage, in fact, is set</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure spending kills the spirit of shared sacrifice and compromise – leads to gridlock</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Hanlon 10</span> (Michael O’Hanlon, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, 12/22/10, “The Defense Budget and American Power,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/]] 2010/1222_defense_budget/20101222_defense_budget.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the minute ..........of shared sacrifice</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tax increases and spending cuts triggered by the cliff will collapse the economy and cause a second Great Depression</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morici 08/07</span> (Peter, PhD, is a recognized expert on economic policy and international economics, and is a Professor of International Business at the R.H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland, “Fix fiscal cliff now or face next Great Depression,” 2012, http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/08/07/fix-fiscal-cliff-now-or-face-next-great-depression/)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">President Obama and Republicans ........</span> a prolonged contraction<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, failure to resolve the fiscal cliff would lead to more credit downgrades that kill investor confidence and collapse the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">El-Erian 10/01</span>** (The Guardian’s Economics Blog by the Guardian Team and the World’s Leading Economists, “US fiscal cliff threat fails to galvanise policymakers,” October 1, 2012, by Mohamed el-Erian, CEO and co-CIO of Pimco, a global investment management firm and one of the world’s largest bond investors. He spent 15 years at the International Monetary Fund in Washington. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/economics-blog/2012/oct/01/us-fiscal-cliff-credit-rating-downgrade?newsfeed=true]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">No, I am not .................</span> securities would shrink<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> over time</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duncan, 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, “The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 12, ebook)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The political battle .........</span> **<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">approximately</span> 60 million <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">people</span>****__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span>__**

====2NC Impact==== 

**Lack of agreement causes recession**
<span class="s1">**Fox 11-9**</span>[“Study warns of another recession if 'fiscal cliff' not addressed, Obama re-enters debate
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/11/09/days-after-victory-obama-faces-fiscal-cliff-as-budget-office-warns-recession/#ixzz2BjyhjwH3]//JJ
WASHINGTON – The double
AND
cost millions of jobs.

**Lack of agreement means recession**
<span class="s1">**Trumbull 11/07**</span> (Mark, “As 'fiscal cliff' looms, stock markets shudder at economic 'uncertainty'”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/2012/1107/As-fiscal-cliff-looms-stock-markets-shudder-at-economic-uncertainty)
“The re-election
AND
long-term deficits?

**Going over the cliff causes recession**
<span class="s1">**Paletta and Hillsenrath 11/08** </span>(Damian and Jon; “Economic Unease Looms after Election,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204707104578097240959260394.html)
If Washington can
AND
unemployment for years.

====2NC PC key==== 
**Election victory has set up a mandate – but Obama’s political capital is key to a compromise**
<span class="s1">**The Independent 11/09**</span> (“President Obama’s first business of new term: avert a fiscal cliff First speech after election triumph calls on Congress to take action,” Nikhil Kumar, New York, Friday 09 November 2012, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/president-obamas-first-business-of-new-term-avert-a-fiscal-cliff-8301360.html)
<span class="s2">**Fresh from an** </span>
AND
<span class="s2">**with my approach**</span><span class="s3">.”</span>

**Post-election conciliatory atmosphere makes Obama’s political capital now key (which BTW is high)**
<span class="s1">**Boston Herald 11/08**</span> (“Prez returns to D.C. with more clout,” By Kimberly Atkins, former Herald State House reporter who now covers law and politics in Washington for Lawyers USA, a national legal publication, November 8, 2012, [[http://bostonherald.com/news/columnists/view/]] 20221108prez_returns_to_dc_with_more_clout)
<span class="s2">WASHINGTON — </span><span class="s3">**When President Obama**</span>
<span class="s3">**AND**</span>
of fight in them.
====2NC Link==== 
**Our link is low threshold – perception of gridlock destroys financial confidence – empirically proven**
<span class="s1">**AP 11/09**</span> (“Early rally fades as fears return that a divided Washington won’t avoid the ‘fiscal cliff’ Rally fades as fears of Washington gridlock return,” by Steve Rothwell, Associated Press, November 9, 2012, http://www.newser.com/article/da2ema501/early-rally-fades-as-fears-return-that-a-divided-washington-wont-avoid-the-fiscal-cliff.html)
<span class="s2">**Investors worried** </span>
<span class="s2">**AND**</span>
<span class="s2"> **back into recession**</span><span class="s3">.</span>
==**Counterplans**== 

===**PPP**=== 

====**1NC**==== 
The CP is critical to enhance state revenue streams
//Gorton and Sabo 12// - Slade Gorton is a former senator from Washington. Martin Sabo is a former representative from Minnesota. They served as co-chairmen of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s National Transportation Policy Project. Politico, 3-7, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0312/73714.html]]

The Obama administration ………<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> improving transportation infrastructure.</span>


Giving states freedom to finance jumpstarts public-private partnerships which are more effective at improving the economy and ensuring improving infrastructure
//Edwards 11// - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A big step ……</span> //to the broader economy.//

====**AT: Links to Ptx**==== 

P3s more popular in Congress than federal investment
//Sledge 12// - Matt, Reporter for the Huffington Post based in New York. A graduate of Brown University, he was previously the Rhode Island director for FairVote. HUFFINGTON POST, 2-2

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress is divided, however, ……..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the country's infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

P3s popular in House and Senate.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Reinhardt and Utt ’12 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">William G. Reinhardt is a business journalist with 40 years of experience reporting on the development of transportation, energy, and environmental infrastructure projects worldwide.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Ronald D. Utt, Ph.D.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> is Senior Research Fellow for the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation where he conducts research on housing, transportation, federal budgetary matters and privatization issues. “Can Public–Private Partnerships Fill the Transportation Funding Gap?” Heritage Foundation, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">January 12, 2012 [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/can-public-private-partnerships-fill-the-transportation-funding-gap]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To date, all of …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in transportation investment.</span>

====**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AT: Perm</span>**==== 

The CP is the opposite of FEDERAL investment
//Inhofe 10// - James M. Hearing: Full Committee hearing entitled, "Innovative Project Finance." 9-28

One of the most <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……..federal highway bill.</span>



The perm’s addition of multiple levels of government kills transparency, producing higher costs
//Edwards 11// - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Federal infrastructure projects ……. a federal-state project</span>.9

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The perm’s addition of multiple levels of government kills transparency, producing higher costs</span>**
**__Edwards 11__** - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11

**__Federal infrastructure projects ….. federal-state project__**.9


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal spending creates a model of failed projects – magnifying our net benefits, increasing long-term local costs</span>**
**__Edwards 11__** - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11
Perhaps **__the biggest ……..__**think are extraneous.14

===XO=== 
====**1NC**==== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The counterplan solves and avoids politics</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Thomasson, 12</span> [Scott, president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm, former policy director at a nonprofit think tank, has testified before Congress about proposals for financing infrastructure, “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment,” Council on Foreign Relations Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 17, April, http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Despite the pressing ……</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">executive branch action</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



Executive orders increase presidential power
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Risen 4</span> [Clay, Managing editor of //Democracy: A Journal of Ideas,// <span class="commentstext">M.A. from the University of Chicago</span> “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the modern era, </span><span class="underline">……. to reproductive health</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Prez power solves India Pakistan, North Korea, Middle East nuclear wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">South China Morning Post 00</span> [“Position of Weakness” 12-11-00, p. L/N]

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A weak president</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …….</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> deftly and decisively.</span>

Kashmir conflict results in nuclear extinction
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Ghulam Nabi Fai Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council, 2001 (Washington Times, 7-8)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The foreign policy of …….</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> the entire globe.</span>__

===**States**=== 
====**1NC**==== 

**The Supreme court needs to devolve transportation infrastructure to states**
<span class="s3">**Frankel et al, 12**</span>– Emily, Visiting Scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center, with Robert Poole, Director of Transportation Policy at the Reason Foundation, Mary E. Peters, Former Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation, and others (Letter to Senators Boxer and Inhofe and Congressmen Mica and Rahall, Building America’s Future, 5/16/12, Bipartisan Policy Center, and Reason Foundation, http://reason.org/files/bipartisan_coalition_urges_fixes_to_transportation_bill.pdf)RK

<span class="s2">In the</span> current <span class="s2">…….</span> and global competitiveness.

**State action is key to effective transportation infrastructure-4 reasons**
<span class="s3">**Poole ’96**</span>. Robert W. Poole, Jr.“DEFEDERALIZING TRANSPORTATION FUNDING” Oct 1996.
[http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf]
<span class="s5">This analysis suggests ……..</span><span class="s6">**-private partnership provisions.**</span>


**The counterplan sends a strong signal of federalism which will be modeled globally**
<span class="s3">**Calabresi, 95**</span> [Steven G, Associate Professor, Northwestern University School of Law. “A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers,” Michigan Law Review December, 1995]//JJ

The prevailing …….. importance of what is at stake.

**Federalism key to resolve Kashmir crisis**
<span class="s4">Rafiq </span><span class="s3">**Dossani**</span><span class="s4"> Senior Research Scholar at The Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center, Stanford University. and Srinidhi Vijaykumar </span><span class="s3">**2009**</span><span class="s4"> (</span>Indian Federalism and the Conduct of Foreign Policy in Border States: State Participation and Central Accommodation since 1990 Domestic Politics and Indian Foreign Policy, A. Mattoo and H Joseph (eds), New Delhi: Routledge, 2009)
<span class="s6">The issue of Kashmiri …….. at work.</span>

==<span class="s6">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span class="s6">Security</span>=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC create a never ending chain of threats, creating a sense of inevitable securitization of its architecture and infrastructure. We must attempt to break down and reject forms of security discourse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(David, Assistant Professor, Member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Ph.D., Political Science (International Relations and American Studies), Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2008. M.A., International Relations, University of Toronto, Toronto, 2001. B.A., American History, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, 2000. “Rethinking the political from a Poststructualist Stance” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.ieim.uqam.ca/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> …..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> are generated 18.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Vote neg to reject the affirmatives flawed security discourse as a prior action to policy action.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman and Bruce 96</span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Graeme, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert, editor, widespread author on security, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This goal is pursued ….. them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thus the alternative:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We should reject the representations of the 1ac. Analysis of the way the affirmative represents space is a prerequisite to political engagement and agency. Only through an analysis of representations can we open the space for an ethical relationship to politics. The enframing of the politics of outer space is a prior question to affirmatives a solvency.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Doty 96 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Political Science at ASU, 1996 [Roxanne Lynn, Imperial Encounters, pages 170-171]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">North-South relations ………</span> __in dominant representations__
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2NC Framework</span>**</span>==== 

**Turn – Focus on roleplaying destroys political agency and education by forcing the subject to lose their sense of self, roleplaying as policy makers will make us see the world through the lens of political domination and subjugation legitimized by organizational authority, eroding our personal ethics. Vote negative to engage in an education that highlights the way the debate space actually influences the political – through DISCOURSE.**
__Reed__ et al, Director of Command and Leadership Studies, U.S. Army War College, __2005__ [Professor George E., Guy B. Adams, Professor, Public Affairs, University of Missouri-Columbia, Danny L. Balfour, Professor, Public and Nonprofit Administration, Grand Valley State University, “Putting Cruelty First: Abu Ghraib, Administrative Evil and Moral Inversion,” Paper prepared for presentation to “Ethics and Integrity of Governance: A Transatlantic Dialogue,” Leuven, Belgium, June 2-5, 2005 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://soc.kuleuven.be/io/ethics/paper/Paper%20WS5_pdf/Guy%20Adams.pdf, 24-28</span>]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Total guard aggression …….</span>__of administrative evil.__

**Turn-policy relevance destroys scholarship- cold war proves- makes effective policy making impossible**
<span class="Underline">**Xenakis 2**</span> [Christopher I.,Assistant Professor of Political Science, Tidewater Community College What Happened to the Soviet Union? 20<span class="Underline">**02**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

<span class="Underline">Why did so many</span> ………<span class="Underline"> was as **deleterious**</span>


====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Perm</span>**</span>==== 

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Third-</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The permutation is just a test of the link and any risk of link takes out solvency—a complete rejection of the affirmatives mapping of space as a series of sovereign territories is key to alternative solvency</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jenny </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edkins</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, International Politics Professor at the University of Wales Aberystwyth, and Veronique Pin-Fat, Director the MA Human Rights in the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sovereign Lives: Power in Global Politics, p. 11-12</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One potential form ……….sovereign power demands</span>

**Criticism of the narratives which justify securitizing politics is an ethical and political necessity—the permutation’s surface level politics systemically wards off critique.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anthony </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, IR—University of New South Wales, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, p. 3-4</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These frameworks are ……. wards off critique.</span>

**Inclusion of their initial framing guts permutation solvency—you must forget the 1AC.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roland </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bleiker</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Rotary Centre of International Studies in Peace and Conflict Resolution, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Zen of International Relations, Ed. Chan, Mandeville, and Bleiker, p. 38-9</span>

The power to tell ……<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of real world politics</span>.

**The link takes out perm solvency—once the technostrategic frame has been accepted, attempts to go back inevitably fail—SDI proves our argument.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Felicity </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mellor</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Science Communication—Imperial College, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The civilian …….</span> from Brilliant Pebbles (Wall, 2001a; 2001b).


====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**2NC Link-China**</span>==== 

<span class="underline0">The discursive construction of the “China threat” posits China as a foil for US policy, depoliticizing military intervention and weaponization, and making conflict with China inevitable. Representing China as a threat is counter-productive and creates a self fulfilling prophecy.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pan 4**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Chengxin, Dept, of Poli Sci and Int. Rel’ts, Australian National University, //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Vol. 29, No. 3, p. 315)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The discursive construction ……..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> "spy plane" incident of 2001.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2NC Link-Russia</span>**</span>==== 
**Depicting Russia as a threat turns the world into an item that must be defended --- fueling a global drive to eliminate danger**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jæger 00</span> (Øyvind, Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, “Securitizing Russia: Discurisve Practices of the Baltic States”, http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Russian war on ………the prime external enemy.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**2NC Link-Environment**</span>==== 
**Their statistics on the environment just serve as an illusion to coax populations into egotistical aspirations, such as global control**

**__Luke ’99__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Timothy, Prof Political Science at Virgina Tech, “Placing Ecocritique in Context: Technology, Democracy and Capitalism as Environment” [[http://www.cddc.vt.edu/tim/tims/Tim653.htm]]</span>

When put into practice…….. by technology/democracy/capitalism.


====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Realism</span>**</span>==== 

**The methodology of threat construction fails and causes global catastrophe—creates a self fulfilling prophecy of escalation.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">James Der Derian, IR—Brown, 2006</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“An Accident Waiting to Happen”, Harvard International Review, 27(3), Fall, http://hir.harvard.edu/ predicting-the-present/national-security</span>
However, the discourse ……..intended from accidental events.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realism ignores evolution and human action</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson and Runyan 99</span>** ( Poli-SCi at U of AZ, Prof @ wright State of Women’s studies,//Global Gender Issues,// 99, p. 227-228, ET)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Avowedly modernist in …..</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> are beyond debate.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Impact</span>**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rather than engage in this cycle of securitization and fear driven politics we should affirm a view of life that incorporates danger a constitutive part of our experience. Only the affirmation of life as uncertainty and danger can foster a meaningful existence and affirm a value to life outside of biological survival.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Der Derian,** Professor of political science at Brown U, 1995 [James, On Security]</span>

In the last analysis, "……..by a god." [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note40#note40|40]]

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>**</span>==== 

**Infrastructure projects are enablers of consumption that produce inequality – the role of the ballot should be envisioning new ways of relating to political ideology in order to shift to a more sustainable form of market development**
**Connolly 12** (William E, Krieger-Eisenhower Professor at Johns Hopkins University where he teaches political theory, "Steps toward an Ecology of Late Capitalism," Theory and Event Vol. 15 Issue 1, 2012, Muse)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3. Today, perhaps </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …..l</span>__and citizen activism.__


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Cap causes endless genocide and spurs violent resistance that kills millions in the name of resource expansion.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Jalata 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">- </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">Professor of Sociology & Global Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">(Asafa, January 24th 2011, “Terrorism from Above and Below in the Age of Globalization”, p.1-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">As capitalism developed</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> in Western Europe, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">..............</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> this issue from a narrow perspective by ignoring what I argue to be the reality: that terrorism is a social cancer for all human groups affected by it.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Alt – vote negative to reject the flawed capitalist nature of the affirmative.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">The alternative is the only way out – we need to analyze the flaws in the system to find the preconditions for movements away from capitalism and its inevitable collapse – this is key to develop a real political strategy</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Carroll 10 – </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">*founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">In the most general terms and at the highest level of abstraction, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 14.66px;">..... to their subordination</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> (De Leon, Desai and Tuğal 2009: 216; Joseph 2002).</span>

**Federal infrastructure projects are __situated__ within history as a tool to __integrate__ both the nation and the world into the __global capitalist order__ of the US – This create an __imperial ideology__ that justifies the __ruthless expansion__ of capital into foreign markets and causes __short-termism__ causes __environmental collapse__**
**Smith 8** (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3 2008, Muse)
__By using the__ **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">lens</span>__**__……….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> public works projects.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]</span>

**<span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Terminal Impact of this drive for Capital by the affirmatives Military Industrial Complex is widespread exploitation, racism and Nuclear War</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webb, 2004</span>** (Sam, masters in econ at uconn, “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” <http://www.pww.org/article/view/4967/1/207/O/> L.F.)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Capitalism** **was never a warm, cuddly, stable social system**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**.........****.** </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Whether that occurs depends**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">in large measure</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**on the outcome of** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">political </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**struggle**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Their attempt to control orbital space constructs it as a zone of inclusive exclusion ripe for economic and political exploitation—the affirmative is nothing more than a form of primitive accumulation which serves to solidify the formation of a global capitalist sovereignty.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Raymond **Duvall,** Political Science—University of Minnesota, and Jonathan Havercroft, Political Science—University of Oklahoma, 20**08**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">“Taking sovereignty out of this world: space weapons and empire of the future,” Review of International Studies, 34, 755–775</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The doctrine of space control ...., the global capitalist state.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A2: Perm do both</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. **The permutation will essentially be viewed as an instance of reform** – combining policy with our radical rejection of capitalism can ONLY function as an instance of reform. Furthermore, this attempt at reformation of capitalism only humanizes the system of obfuscates a focus on the structural violence inherent in the system.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Mészáros 11</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(István, Professor Emeritus – University of Sussex, “The Only Viable Economy”, 6-17, http://monthlyreview.org/2007/04/01/the-only-viable-economy)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The incompatibilities of the two systems … in accord with its innermost nature.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">5. **Only a radical rejection** **of capitalism in the specific context of the affirmative can create a universality that contests the hegemony of capital.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 1999</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, page 91-92, gjm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">With regard to the opposition between abstract and concrete Universal­ity, this means …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> urination, while the speculative reading is also able to discern in it the much higher function of insemination (i.e. precisely 'conception' as the biological anticipation of concept).</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">6. **Permutation allows for cooption** – the incorporation of local narratives only serves to supplement capitalist hegemony rather than contest it – the very combination of plan with alternative sustains the capitalist hegemony over discourse</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek 2008</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> In Defense of Lost Causes page 38</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The "worldless" character of capitalism is linked to this hegemonic …</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> is to produce a symbolic fiction (a truth) that intervenes into the Real, that causes a change within it.</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">29</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Framework</span>**</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Historical Materialism must come first as it predetermines the subject’s consciousness and the very possibilities of reflective thinking.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marx, 1859</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Karl, A Contribution to the Critique of the Political Economy – </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1859/critique-pol-economy/preface.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">) IG</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into ….__within the framework of the old society.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2. Their truth claims are trapped in a capitalist ontology which predetermines how knowledge is produced</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Schiwy</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> PhD Candidate in Romance Studies at Duke, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">& Ennis</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> PhD Candidate in Lit at Duke, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2002</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Freya and Michael, Nepantla: Views from the South 3.1 project muse</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The essays </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">gathered in this dossier respond to issues raised during the …. are efforts to think about epistemology //from// the Andes.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://proxy.lib.wayne.edu:2128/journals/nepantla/v003/3.1schiwy.html#endnote:1|1]]</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">AT: Cap Inevitable</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Alternative is to Vote Negative as an act of Non-Violent Protest of the Military Industrial Complex.** **Non-violent refusal to participate causes the system to come toppling down. Claims that Capitalism is inevitable is just an excuse to do nothing to promote alternatives.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martin 01,</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Brian, Associate Professor of Science, Technology and Society at the University Of Wallongong, “Nonviolence Versus Capitalism” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[[http://www.wri-irg.org/system/files/nvcpall.pdf]]</span><span class="CitesChar" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nonviolent action is the most </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">….</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> worse, depending on what people do about it.</span>


**Their representation of capitalism as an unalterable reality is precisely what creates its inevitability—the first step is to remember that economies are localized, historically dependent social formations that can be changed**.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gibson-Graham, 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson, Graham is Professor of Geography, Associate Department Head for Geography, B.A., Smith College, Ph.D., Clark University, 1984 , Gibson has a BSc (Hons) (Sydney), MA, PhD (Clark), (Pen Name is J.K. Gibson-Graham), ,“A Postcapitalist Politics”, p. 53-54)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Why has Economy become an everyday </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">term …</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> and dynamic mechanism" known as "the economy," and this representation is difficult to dislodge.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cap=War</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism is the root cause of war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Carchedi 6</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Guglielmo, Senior Researcher in the Department of Economics and Econometrics at the University of Amsterdam, Rethinking Marxism, Volume 18, Number 1, January, “The Fallacies of Keynesian Policies,” p. 77-78, ebsco)

If neither civilian nor military Keynesian policies … Keynesian policies for the above-mentioned reasons.</span>

</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Cap=Econ collapse</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism structurally guarantees repeated economic crises.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foster 8 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(John Bellamy, author of Marx's Ecology: Materialism and Nature and an editor of Monthly Review. Interview by Renfry Clarke from GLW, http://www.greenleft.org.au/node/39387)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> We talk typically about </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">economic growth</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">… to be a world </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">crisis of capitalism</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, and this </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">is </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">built into the system</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>


====**Cap Degrades environment**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Capitalism is the root cause of environmental degradation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Bello 8 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Walden, professor of sociology and public administration at the University of the Philippines , “Will Capitalism Survive Climate Change?”, April, http://www.robnewman.com/will.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> Also, it is increasingly evident that the trade-off for more …. regime on the grounds that it is a developing country.</span>


====**Ethical Obligation**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">You have an ethical obligation to reject capitalism – its violence is concealed and naturalized by everyday politics.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Zizek and Daly 4 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> There is a further potential danger. This concerns especially orthodox trends in … today is towards a kind of political boutiquism that is readily sustained by postmodern forms of consumerism and lifestyle.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fem K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1NC</span>**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A. The discourse of the 1AC relies on a masculine and securitized paradigm of military dominance.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Griffin 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US is,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;"> of course, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">heavily......</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">dubious characters' such as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10).</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**B. This gendered security discourse causes inevitable violence and war that turns the case. Rejecting the 1AC opens up space for a feminist reconceptualization of security.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shepherd 2007</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">[Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence,” //BJPIR//: 2007 VOL 9, 239–256]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.66px;">As Spike Peterson and Jacqui True comment, ‘......I am more than happy to be unreasonable, and I am in excellent company.</span>
===<span class="s6">Predictions Bad</span>=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Navigating the highways of policy requires you to FIRST decide where you want to go.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The affirmative scenarios lock in a future that sustains the status quo, trading-off with broader visions of transformation.</span>**
**//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Voting negative imagines transportation policy-making that can adapt to the complex uncertainties paved over by the 1AC.</span>//**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inayatullah 2003</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">[Sohail Inayatullah, Prof at Tamkang U, “Alternative Futures of Transport” //foresight// 5.1: 34-43] Inayatullah 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;">Given the reality ………. the future of tomorrow</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>


**The 1AC maps a linear path from A to B to C to D, paving over the complex interactions between their dozens of predictions—But THE WHOLE IS MORE THAN THE SUM OF ITS PARTS**
**Ramalingam et al 2008**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Ben, Senior Research Associate at the Overseas Development Institute, and Harry jones at ODI, "Exploring the science of complexity: Ideas and Implications for development and humanitarian efforts" [[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/833.pdf]] ] RJ 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Concept 4: Nonlinearity5 ‘... …………..</span>__<span style="font-family: MetaNormal-Roman;">in interconnected ways</span>__<span style="font-family: MetaNormal-Roman; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Impact—Existential risk is systemic, not a flash of instability to be predicted and controlled. The 1AC brackets the full complexity of crisis and the value questions behind their scenarios—Preventing the adaptation and resilience necessary for a viable future.</span>**

**Mangalagiu 2011**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[Diana Mangalagiu, Prof of Strategy at Smith School of Enterprise and Environment-University of Oxford “Risk and resilience in times of globalization” An emerging research program for Global Systems Science: Assessing the state of the art, 10/4/11, [[http://www.gsdp.eu/]]] Mangalagiu 1</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Times;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> recent </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Times;">financial crisis </span>____<span style="font-family: Times;">………….</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> ambiguity and ignorance</span><span style="font-family: Times;">.</span>

===Process Metaphysics=== 
**You must resolve your value system before you can weigh an impact. The 1AC treats ecologies as natural resources, and their utilitarian calculus objectifies nature as an instrument of human needs. Vote negative to imagine a moral universe responsive to the mysterious autonomy of more-than-human-existence**

Michael **Bonnett**, lecturer at University of Cambridge, **2002**
[//The Trumpeter// 18.1]

So, <span class="s1">why recommend ...............</span> spiritually that sustains us<span class="s2">.</span>


**The 1AC project a moral universe in which nature is an instrument for human planning.**
**First, Infrastructure reduces ecosystems into “natural resources” for human use.**
**Second, Utilitarian impact calculus necessarily devalues more-than-human existence.**
**How can they weigh the “good” of a flower versus a mountain versus the Atlantic Ocean? Any such calculation transforms nature into an object of human wants and desires.**

**Katz 1997**
Eric Katz, Director of Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, 1997
[//Nature as Subject// p. 9-10]

At the end of his ....open to preservationists


**The reality is that the impact is the size of your value system, and their dread of extinction traps you within the despair of the human .**
**You are not an isolated ego, but instead part of vast creative processes going back billions of years. You are Apes and Dirt; Stars and Rocks; Rivers and Quarks and Bacteria**
**We will inevitably go extinct, but we can still value the wonderful aliveness of the universe beyond our capacities to destroy.**

**Seed, 1995** (John, “Beyond Anthropocentrism”, [[http://www.rainforestinfo.org.au/deep-eco/Anthropo.htm]]]

"Anthropocentrism" or "homocentrism" ........ <span class="s1">in harmony with life again</span>.

===Lacan=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC (Policy)**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Affirmative is a healthy dose of ideology- instead of coming to terms with the irrational nature of the international relations they only attempt to secure the international arena making sure nothing ever really changes. Unfortunately their hope sustained in security guarantees is misplaced as ideology only operates by never fulfilling its promise of security the result is only the creation of more threats to be secured by the West</span>**
**Daly, 2004,** (Glyn, Risking the Impossible, [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-primer.htm]]) SRM

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zizek has been ……</span> __things actually are.__

**The Threat of catastrophe utilized by the Affirmative in order to justify passage of the plan is not a break from Status Quo but instead is the sustaining force behind today’s biopolitics. Life lived under this constant threat of annihilation is a life lived in a permanent state of emergency. Life deprived of the substance that makes it worth living.**

**Zizek 2003**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Slavoj, Prof of Sociology @ Inst. For Sociology Ljubljana Univ, __The Puppet and the Dwarf__, 94-99)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Insofar as “death” ….. __higher Goal is__.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our alternative is to institutionalize the Lack and design politics around doubt and uncertainty. This will result in more radically democratic politics and is the starting point for the aff solvency.</span>**(alt solvency card – reference a lot)
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to my ……..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">transformed ethical framework.</span>__

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC (K)**</span>==== 

**Infinite advocacies on behalf of the excluded are so overhelming that they are designed to fail. Completely unreasonable demands are therefore empty gestures in the service of the existing order.**
**Zizek, 99** (Slavoj, __The Ticklish Subject__, p.229-230, plus footnote 54)

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The pathetic assertion `…….</span> endorses its reproduction.**</span>

**<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be impossible to realize—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>** (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our age is ………</span>__<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;"> a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our alternative is to institutionalize the Lack and design politics around doubt and uncertainty. This will result in more radically democratic politics and is the starting point for the aff solvency.</span>**(alt solvency card – reference a lot)
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98).</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to my reading,………</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> transformed ethical framework.</span>__

===Heidegger=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**Transportation technology’s fixation with speed manipulates nature draining it of value**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nadis,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> History professor at California State University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Fred, “</span>//The Enchantments of Technology (review)”,// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Technology and Culture, Project Muse)</span>
¶ In this intriguing synthesis………<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> would be ideal readers.¶</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This technological framing poses the world as standing reserve and removes the essence of humanity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idhe,</span> Professor of Philosophy and the Director of the Technoscience Research Group at Stony Brook, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> (Don, //Heidegger’s Technologies//, Project Muse, Pg 54-55

Now the concept …….regarding humanity’s future.
**That outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rojcewicz, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 06</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>

Heidegger now launches ……….<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> make them slaves.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Our alternative is to suspend technological thought.** </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Questioning is a pre-requisite to effective action and is the only way to restore Being</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Babich,</span> Professor of Philosophy Fordham University, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Babette, “Heidegger’s Philosophy of Sicence and the Critique of Calculation: Reflective Questioning, Gelassenheit, and Life”, //Heidegger on Science// edited by Trish Glazebrook, Project Muse, Pg 165-166

What Heidegger means ……<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> consider alternative solutions.</span>


===**Foucault**=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**First, freedom of mobility is a ruse.**
**Transportation infrastructure produces docile bodies who do not possess the potential for mobility but are compelled to never stop moving in order to perform quotidian functions. Frictionless movement becomes a death march of mobility.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sager 2006 [Tore, Department of Civil and Transport Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, “Freedom as Mobility: Implications of the Distinction between Actual and Potential Travelling,” Mobilities, Vol. 1, No. 3]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Bauman (2000) emphasises …..</span> one rests in peace<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Second, transportation infrastructure individuates consumption through social diffusion, ramping up demand, locking in mobility for the affluent reproduces domination and exclusion from vital social functions. Technologies of efficiency police the population through the super-panopticon of perpetual surveillance.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Andrejevic 2003 [Mark, Fairfield University, “Monitored Mobility in the Era of Mass Customization,” Space and Culture, Vol. 6, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Surely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this dramatic …….</span> but on its certainty<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**Third, the expert discourses that circulate around transportation produce the normative travelling body. The affirmative disciplines the citizen into an efficient consumer while excluding bodies not fit for transit. Mobility planning manages micro-practices in order to secure the economic function of the city.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bonham 6 [Jennifer, The Editorial Board of the Sociological Review “Transport: disciplining the body that travels”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The disciplining of ……</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">present-day conduct of travel.</span>

**Fourth, the highway and the rail-line are the concentration camps of speed. Through the domination of time, transportation acts as the last fortification of the states ability to conduct war. The continued appropriation of space by technologies of speed makes the Earth into a battlefield.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 58-9|</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deterritorialization inaugurates the ……</span> places in the world'<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Fifth, ensuring the health of the social body is the underside of the power to mobilize populations for war. Global extinction would not be possible without the unquestioned biopolitics of the 1AC.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foucault, in ’76 [Michel, The History of Sexuality, pg. 136-137]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the classical …….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">phenomena of population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Last, the alternative is a rejection of the affirmative’s dangerous biopolitics that justify the investment in transportation infrastructure.**
**And, our intervention into the aff’s regime of truth challenges the hegemony of modernity’s technological thought and drives for control. The alternative is a necessary first step to re-build the world brink-by-brick.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edkins, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, in ‘6 [Jenny December 2006, “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Of course, 'this regime ……</span>, brick by brick**//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>//**


===Virilio=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">**1NC**</span>==== 

**The 1AC is a pointless affirmation of speed which inevitably lead to failure-rejection of speed is key** (This card is 10 pages long)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 39-49|</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Man is the passenger ……..!</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For it feeds on fire, hate, and speed.</span>

==Impacts== 

===**Agriculture**=== 

**Multiple alt causes the aff can’t solve**
**Journal of Commerce, 12 ("Agriculture Trade a 'Risky Business'", April 16, Proquest) //NK//**
//Analysts and economists ………<span class="s2"> **for imported food grew.**</span>//

//**Agriculture fails because essential ground nutrients are lost when harvesting crops**//
//**Drechsel, Kunze and Penning de Vries 01** [Pay Drechsel, Senior Scientist (Environmental and Soil Science) and IWMI's Subregional Director for West Africa , Dagmar Kunze, FAO Regional Office for Africa (RAF), Frits Penning de Vries, was Principal Researcher and Douglas Merrey was Director for Africa, “Soil nutrient depletion and population growth in sub-Saharan Africa: A Malthusian nexus?” Population and Environment. New York: Mar 2001. Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 411, proquest]// CG
In comparison with erosion…………<span class="s2"> **empirical evidence**</span> (Drechsel & Penning de Vries, in press).


**US agriculture exports are higher than ever**
**Western Farm Press 11** – (Western Farm Press, “Agriculture exports to remain strong in 2012,” Western Farm Press, September 2, 2011, [[http://westernfarmpress.com/government/agriculture-exports-remain-strong-2012]]) // CB
<span class="s6">Agriculture exports in fiscal ……………. the rest of the world."</span>

===Terrorism=== 
No impact -- the risk of a successful attack is highly improbable.
<span class="s3">**Mueller 7**</span> – PhD in political science from UCLA, professor of political science at Ohio State University (John Mueller, “Reactions and Overreactions to Terrorism: The Atomic Obsession”, American Political Science Association, July 24, 2007, http://psweb.sbs.ohio-state.edu/faculty/jmueller/APSA2007.PDF)//MG
<span class="s6">**In the case of nuclear …………. uninspiring, even dispiriting.**</span>

===**Warming**=== 
**.**“Scientific consensus” does not exist – labeled “deniers” are on the right side but are silenced
<span class="s8">**Harris '10**</span> [Tom Harris, The Washington Times, 10/14/2010, "Harris: Time to get real about climate change", pg. online @ http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/oct/14/time-to-get-real-about-climate-change //bprp]//
//We are very ………….<span class="s6"> dangerous global warming.”</span>//

//**2.** Anthropogenic carbon emissions have too short an airborne life to even increase atmospheric partial pressure//
//<span class="s8">**Segalstad '09**</span> [Tom V. Segalstad, Associate Professor of Resource and Environmental Geology, The University of Oslo, 8/05/2009, "Correct Timing is Everything - Also for CO2 in the Air", pg. online @ , www.co2science.org/articles/V12/N31/EDIT.php// gh-bprp]
<span class="s6">With</span> such <span class="s6">short ………….heated carbonated drink.</span>

**3.** Reducing emissions has miniscule effects on temperature
<span class="s8">**Lomborg '08**</span> [Bjorn Lomborg, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center and the author of “Cool It:,, 2008, "Cool It: The Skeptical Environmentalist''s Guide to Global Warming", pg. online @ http://books.google.com/books?id=gRLlb_RdfCAC&printsec=frontcover&dq=bjorn+lomborg+cool+it&hl=en&src=bmrr&ei=5UgvTv-SEou_gQfFkY1x&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=bjorn%20lomborg%20cool%20it&f=false// bprp]
**At the moment,** ……….<span class="s9">, from 2100 to 2105</span>**.**

===**Heg**=== 

**Heg doesn’t solve conflicts**
<span class="s2">**Preble, 10**</span> Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at CATO, “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”, Aug 3rd, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2010/08/03/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]]

Most in Washington still …………… country pick up the tab.


**Hegemony causes economic collapse – war empiricism proves**
<span class="s10">**Eland 09**</span> (Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, B.A. Iowa State University, M.B.A. in Economics and Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University, Ivan, The Independent Institute, “How the U.S. Empire Contributed to the Economic Crisis”, May 11th, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2498)
A few—and only a few—<span class="s2">**……….**</span>is making us poorer.

**Econ decline turns hegemony**
<span class="s10">**Chicago Tribune, 09**</span> (“Realities and Obama's diplomacy” By Robert A. Pape) http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/chi-perspec0308diplomacymar08,0,4785661.story
<span class="s5">For nearly two decades,</span> <span class="s6">**………. maintaining the status quo.**</span>
===**Trade**=== 

**Trade is resilient.**
**Chicago Tribune, ‘8**
[“After Doha,” 8-9, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/chi-0809edit2aug09,0,7859688.story]
Even <span class="s1">people ………..</span> 5.5 percent last year.)

**Econ decline doesn’t cause war-recession disproves there impact**
<span class="s2">**Barnett ‘9**</span>(Thomas P.M. Barnett, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” 8/25/2009)
<span class="s4">**When the global ………. liberal trade order**</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Euro collapse will spark a global financial crisis---plan doesn’t solve Europe**
<span class="s3">**Elliot et al 6/16** </span>2012, *Larry Elliott, *Helena Smith, and *Julia Kollewe are writers for The Guardian, “World Bank warns that euro collapse could spark global crisis,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/16/world-bank-euro-collapse-crisis#start-of-comments, AJ
The outgoing head ………<span class="s6">of trade restrictions</span>."

**No incentive to go to war**
<span class="s1">**Bennett and Nordstrom**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="s1">**2k**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]

In this analysis, ……….. substitutability between them.

===US-Japan Alliance=== 

**Non-unique - US-Japan alliance is resilient—the alliance is very strong and stable:**
**Campbell 10** (Kurt, Assistant Secretary Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, January 19, “http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2010/01/135400.htm”, TH)

This is ……….. because of the process.

**Disaster Relief has strengthened the alliance**
**Japan Today 11** ( June 20 2011, website commenting on what the secretary of the DPJ said**,**<span class="s1"> **“**</span>Okada says Japan-U.S. alliance deepened through disaster relief”, [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/politics/view/okada-says-japan-u-s-alliance-deepened-through-disaster-relief]], Manchester)

TOKYO — <span class="s1">Democratic Party ……… the March 11 disasters.</span>
**Alt cause – the Futenma issue kills relations and relocation has been delayed indefinitely**
**Wan 6/21** (William, diplomatic correspondent and staff writer for the Washington Post, “Okinawa Marine base move to be delayed”, June 21st, 2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/national-security/okinawa-marine-base-move-to-be-delayed/2011/06/21/AGZ4vteH_story.html%20//|http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/national-security/okinawa-marine-base-move-to-be-delayed/2011/06/21/AGZ4vteH_story.html //]] Vish)
<span class="s1">The United States …….. was left uncertain.</span>

===<span class="s1">Econ</span>=== 
**Econ decline doesn’t cause war-recession disproves there impact**
<span class="s1">**Barnett ‘9**</span>(Thomas P.M. Barnett, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” 8/25/2009)
<span class="s3">**When the global ...........****liberal trade order**</span>.

**Euro collapse will spark a global financial crisis---plan doesn’t solve Europe**
<span class="s2">**Elliot et al 6/16** </span>2012, *Larry Elliott, *Helena Smith, and *Julia Kollewe are writers for The Guardian, “World Bank warns that euro collapse could spark global crisis,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/16/world-bank-euro-collapse-crisis#start-of-comments, AJ
The outgoing head ...........<span class="s4"> of trade restrictions</span>."

**No incentive to go to war**
<span class="s3">**Bennett and Nordstrom**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="s3">**2k**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]

In this analysis, ........substitutability between them.

**Econ resilient**
Fareed <span class="s3">**Zakaria**</span> (editor of Newsweek International) December <span class="s3">**2009**</span> “The Secrets of Stability,” http://www.newsweek.com/id/226425/page/2]
<span class="s3">**One year ago, ........**</span> each historical in nature.

**US isn’t key to the global economy --- decoupling solves**
<span class="s3">**Hong**</span>, writer for Xinhua, 20<span class="s3">**08**</span> [Liu, Rise of emerging markets shapes global economic map, Xinhua, 8/24, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-08/25/content_9706441.htm]

<span class="s5">WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- ............." he told Xinhua.</span>

**No impact economic competitiveness can’t solve heg**
<span class="s1">**Krugman 11** </span>– joined The New York Times in 1999 as a columnist on the Op-Ed Page, professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University, became the Ford International Professor of Economics at MIT, one of the founders of the "new trade theory," American Economic Association awarded him the John Bates Clark medal (Paul, “Paul Krugman: Competitiveness deficit not cause of economic collapse,” January 24, 2011, [[http://www.daytondailynews.com/opinion/columnists/paul-krugman-competitiveness-deficit-not-cause-of-economic-collapse-1062908.html]]) // CB
Meet the new buzzword, ...........<span class="s3">economy to regulate itself.</span>


===<span class="s1">Space Colonization</span>=== 

**A. High Transportation Costs**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
Lack of Affordable Transportation t.......<span class="s2">even with success</span>?"

**B. Launch Vehicles aren’t safe**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
<span class="s2">Poor Safety Record .........</span> revenue is reduced.

**C. No Closed-Loop Life Support System**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
No Closed-Loop Life Support System .......perhaps much longer.


**D. No Long Term Government Funding Mechanism**
<span class="s1">**Hopkins 11**</span> (Mark Hopkins, Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html, 4/24/2011)
No Long-term Government ........... can do the best job.

**E. Lack of incentives for Capital Investment**
<span class="s1">**Hopkins 11**</span> (Mark Hopkins, Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html, 4/24/2011)
Lack of Incentives for Capital Investment: .........<span class="s2">reusable launch vehicles (RLVs</span>).

===China War=== 

**Relations high-Hu Jintao affirmed relations**
<span class="s1">**Xinhua 7-25**</span>[“President Hu emphasizes healthy China-U.S. relationship”; July 25, 2012; http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/video/2012-07/25/c_131737508.htm]
BEIJING, July 25 (Xinhuanet) -- ….. region and the globe."

**No war- China has too many domestic problems**
<span class="s1">**Kissinger, 12**</span>(Henry A., chair of Kissinger Associates and a former U.S. Secretary of State and National Security Adviser. “The Future of U.S.-Chinese Relations: Conflict Is a Choice, Not a Necessity.” March/April //Foreign Affairs//)
<span class="s3">**Another reason ……..**</span> of China's evolution.

**China isn’t seeking expansionism or ideological sway-conflict isn’t probable**
<span class="s1">**Dobbins 12**</span> [ James Dobbins directs the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the RAND Corporation. He <span class="s2">¶ </span>has previously served as American Ambassador to the European Community and Assistant Secretary of State. This article is excerpted from the RAND study ‘Conﬂ ict with China: Prospects, Consequences and Strategies for Deterrence’ by James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak and Andrew Scobell; “War with China”; Survival | vol. 54 no. 4 | August–September 2012 | pp. 7–24]//JJ

It is important ……. throughout this period.

<span class="s4">**No war- economic ties and other allies in the region make it too risky**</span>
<span class="s5">**Hsu, 11**</span><span class="s4">**(Jeremy-staff writer. “Economic Ties Could Help Prevent US-China War.” 11/1. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45125209/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/t/economic-ties-could-help-prevent-us-china-war/)**</span>
<span class="s4">**The Rand …….. by the Rand report.**</span>

**No war – China is deterred by the US-no incentive to attack**
<span class="s6">**Chen Jen-Shuai 8**</span>(Writer for the Henry L. Stimson Center, September 2008 http://www.stimson.org/eastasia/pdf/Col_Chen_Report_SEP_08.pdf )
The Chinese are slowly …….<span class="s3"> is actually widening</span>.

===Europe War=== 

**Nationalism and instability inevitable, but they won’t cause EU war.**
**Walt, ‘11**
[Stephen, Robert and Rene Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School, 8-18, “The coming erosion of the European Union,” [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/08/18/the_coming_erosion_of_the_european_union]]]
I began with …….. at least not the way it once was.

===**ASIAN ECONOMY**=== 
**Asian economies are resilient**
<span class="s1">**Bloomberg 6/13/12** </span>**(Andrew Sharp, economic writer for Bloomberg in Tokyo, “Asia Shows Resilience As Europe Debt Concerns Mount”** [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/japan-machine-orders-rose-more-than-forecast-on-reconstruction.html)//|**http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/japan-machine-orders-rose-more-than-forecast-on-reconstruction.html)//**]] **CG**
Japan’s machinery orders ……… grow more than 3 percent<span class="s1">.</span>

**India and china prove Asian econ is resilient**
<span class="s1">**Bloomberg Businessweek 12** </span>**(Unni Krishnan is a reporter for Bloomberg News. ”India, China Economies Show Asia Resilient as Europe Falters”** [[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-01-03/india-china-economies-show-asia-resilient-as-europe-falters.html%22%20%5Cl%20%22p1)//|**http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-01-03/india-china-economies-show-asia-resilient-as-europe-falters.html#p1)//**]] **CG**
Jan. 3 (Bloomberg<span class="s2">**) -- Manufacturing in India ………**</span> showed. Asian Proliferation

**The Asian economy can handle economic downturn**
<span class="s1">**Asian society no date** </span>**(“’Resilient' Asia Should Weather Economic Crisis’” accessed 7/2/12** [[http://asiasociety.org/business/economic-trends/resilient-asia-should-weather-economic-crisis|**http://asiasociety.org/business/economic-trends/resilient-asia-should-weather-economic-crisis**]]**) //CG//**
//<span class="s3">NEW YORK - </span><span class="s4">**The President of the ……… a difficult period.**</span>//

//**More ev**//
//<span class="s1">**Xinhua news 09** </span>**(2010-08-19 15:25:11 “Asian economies resilient amid crisis: ADB report” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/business/2010-08/19/c_13452514.htm)**// **CG**
MANILA, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) <span class="s2">**-- ………..,**</span> according to the ADB.

===**ASIAN WAR**=== 
**No risk of Asian war – stability now**
<span class="s1">**Desker 8** </span>6/25, *Barry Desker: dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, NTU and writes for The Strait Times, “Why war is unlikely in Asia,” http://www.asiaone.com/News/the%2BStraits%2BTimes/Story/A1Story20080625-72716.html, AJ
<span class="s2">THE Asia-Pacific region is ………</span>to Western norms and values during the American century.

===**Arctic War**=== 
**No war -- frameworks for cooperation and dialogue prevent it.**
<span class="s5">**IISS 12**</span> **– British think tank in the area of international affairs. It describes itself as "the world’s leading authority on political-military conflict". (International Institute for Strategic Studies, “The Arctic ‘race for cooperation’”, IISS, February 24, 2012,** [[http://iissvoicesblog.wordpress.com/2012/02/24/the-arctic-race-for-cooperation/]]**, Callahan)**
At the launch of the institute’s Forum for ……….<span class="s2"> **Canada and the US.**</span>

**Russia/Norway agreements prove cooperation will expand and maintain peace.**
<span class="s5">**Karlsbakk 7/3**</span> **– Writer for the Barents Observer. (Jonas, “Leading the way for Arctic cooperation”, Barents Observer, July 3, 2012,** [[http://barentsobserver.com/en/politics/leading-way-arctic-cooperation-03-07]]**, Callahan)**
<span class="s4">**Arctic issues has …….. operations**</span><span class="s3">” says Vasiliev.</span>

===**Biodiversity**=== 

**Unlimited species growth causes final extinction**
<span class="s6">**Boulter 2** </span>(Michael, prof of paleobiology @ U of East London, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 67)
If biological evolution ……….<span class="s2"> life on this planet. </span>

**Deforestation makes biodiversity loss** <span class="s4">**inevitable**</span>
**Cardillo, 06** (Marcel, Division of Biology, Imperial College London, 2006, “Disappearing forests and biodiversity loss: which areas should we protect?,” //International Forestry Review// Volume 8, Issue 2, http://www.tempoandmode.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/int-forestry-review-june-2006-cardillo.pdf, Hensel)
<span class="s4">**The destruction of forests and …….**loss to 2020</span><span class="s3"> (Grelle 2005). </span>

**Ecosystems can adapt to climate change fast enough to survive**
<span class="s6">**Guruswamy 2k** </span>(Prof of Law @ U of Colorado, Summer, Journal of Land Use and Environmental Law)JFS
A doubling would ………. that persists indefinitely. n248

**Dominant species are more important to ecology than diversity**
**Mokani et al, 08** (Karel, School of Botany and Zoology, Australia National University, *AND Julian Ash, School of Botany and Zoology, Australia National University, *AND Stephen Roxburgh, Bushfire Cooperative Research Centre, School of Biological, Earth, and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales and ENSIS, May 7, 2008, “Functional identity is more important than diversity in influencing ecosystem processes in a temperate native grassland,” Journal of Ecology Volume 96, Issue 5, Wiley, Hensel)
In conclusion, the results from <span class="s2">…….. of ecosystem processes</span>.

===**Central Asia War**=== 

**Cooperative frameworks prevent conflict breakout.**
<span class="s5">**Maksutov 06** </span>**(Ruslan, Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, “The Shanghai Cooperation Organization: A Central Asian Perspective”, August, http://www.sipri.org/contents/worldsec/Ruslan.SCO.pdf/download)**
As a starting point, it is fair to say that <span class="s2">**……….. large by comparison.**</span>

<span class="s4">Great powers will cooperate instead of fight. </span>
<span class="s1">**Collins and Wohlforth 04**</span> - *professor of political science at Notre Dame AND **professor of government at Dartmouth (Kathleen and William, “Defying ‘Great Game’ Expectations, Strategic Asia 2003-2004, [[http://www.dartmouth.edu/~govt/docs/15-Central%20Asia-press.pdf]])**
While cautious realism ………domestic stability in Central Asia.

Tons of conflict mitigating factors in Central Asia -- no escalation. Clais, ‘10**
[Jonas, United States Institute of Peace, “Preventing Conflict in the “Stans”,” 4-23, [[http://www.usip.org/files/resources/PB%2021%20Preventing%20Conflict%20in%20the%20Stans.pdf]]]
<span class="s2">Despite this litany ………</span>highest number worldwide.

===**China war**=== 
**No US-China war -- consensus of military experts.**
<span class="s5">**Ackerman 11**</span> – Signal Magazine’s Editor in Chief (Robert, quoting Timothy Keating, former admiral, “War Between China, U.S. Not Likely,” Signal Scope, 5/10/11, [[http://www.afcea.org/signal/signalscape/index.php/2011/05/10/11510]])
<span class="s4">The United States and China ………. the region</span><span class="s3">, he added.</span>

**Economic interdependence prevents conflict.**
<span class="s5">**Hsu 11**</span> - Senior writer for InnovationNewsDaily (Jeremy, “Economic Ties Could Help Prevent US-China War,” MSNBC, 11/1/11, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45125209/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/t/economic-ties-could-help-prevent-us-china-war/]], MMarcus)
<span class="s2">**As the U.S. faces China's**</span> ……… the Rand analysts say.

**China doesn’t want to instigate conflict -- they know they’d get crushed.**
**Bandow, ‘8**
[Doug, former senior fellow at CATO, “Turning China into the Next Big Enemy,” 3-7, http://www.antiwar.com/bandow/?articleid=12472]
But the Defense Department is ……. imagine that China could ever deploy enough to create a first strike capability.

**It won’t go nuclear.**
**Aga, ‘9**
[Clifford, “Top 10 Military Powers of the World”, 10-28, http://totopereira.blogspot.com/2009/10/top-10-military-powers-of-world.html]
The above table gives us an …………………….<span class="s8"> **war(s) will be fought in the conventional ways itself**</span><span class="s2">. </span>Another aspect is type of weaponry, the advanced military weapons that a state possesses.

===**China Taiwan War**=== 

**No war – economies too intertwined**
<span class="s1">**Bhakal, 12** </span>(Maitreya- Freelance Writer at ABSAS Solutions Pvt. Ltd. “Five reasons why China will not invade Taiwan, and an analysis of Cross-strait Relation.” [[http://indiaschinablog.blogspot.com/2011/08/analysing-cross-strait-relations-and-5.html]])
<span class="s4">**China has always ………. scaring away potential investors.**</span>

**No war – China fears US intervention**
<span class="s1">**Bhakal, 12** </span>(Maitreya- Freelance Writer at ABSAS Solutions Pvt. Ltd. “Five reasons why China will not invade Taiwan, and an analysis of Cross-strait Relation.” [[http://indiaschinablog.blogspot.com/2011/08/analysing-cross-strait-rela|http://indiaschinablog.blogspot.com/2011/08/analysing-cross-strait-relations-and-5.html]])
<span class="s2">**The United States of America**</span><span class="s3">, ……..</span><span class="s4"> **of a possible US intervention.**</span>

**No war – Taiwan will never declare independence**
<span class="s1">**Bhakal, 12** </span>(Maitreya- Freelance Writer at ABSAS Solutions Pvt. Ltd. “Five reasons why China will not invade Taiwan, and an analysis of Cross-strait Relation.” [[http://indiaschinablog.blogspot.com/2011/08/analysing-cross-strait-relations-and-5.html]])
1. <span class="s2">**Taiwan is not going ……….**</span> it wouldn’t, would it?”

===**cyberwar**=== 
**No cyber war---assumes your warrants**
<span class="s1">**Fox 11** </span>7/2, *Stuart Fox: Assistant Editor, Innovation News Daily, “Why Cyberwar Is Unlikely,” http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/830-cyberwar-unlikely-deterrence-cyber-war.html, AJ
<span class="s4">Even as more ……… advanced nearly as quickly</span><span class="s3">." </span>

**It’s all hyped nonsense**
<span class="s1">**Liebowitz 11**</span> 1/21, *Matt Liebowitz: Security News Daily Staff Writer, “Cyberwar Overhyped and Unlikely, Report Says,” http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/337-cyberwar-overhyped-and-unlikely-report-says.html, AJ
<span class="s2">The threat of “cyberwar,”</span> …….. keynote address to the assembled hackers.

**More evidence**
<span class="s1">**Fox 11** </span>7/2, *Stuart Fox: Assistant Editor, Innovation News Daily, “Cyberwar: Definition, Hype & Reality,” http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/828-cyberwar-definition-cyber-war.html, AJ
Yet despite worrying military ………<span class="s2"> into something more dangerous</span>.

**No impact**
<span class="s1">**Fox 11** </span>7/2, *Stuart Fox: Assistant Editor, Innovation News Daily, “What Cyberwar Would Look Like,” http://www.securitynewsdaily.com/829-what-cyberwar-would-look-like-cyber-war-attack-scenario.html, AJ
<span class="s3">Perhaps </span><span class="s4">the most striking feature of …………standard of war</span><span class="s3">." </span>

===**Disease**=== 


**1.Diseases strong enough to kill will burnout – evolution is on our side.**
<span class="s6">**Adam 5**</span> (Mike, Staff Writer for Newstarget.com, "Why the bird flu virus is less deadly but more dangerous," June 21, http://www.outlivetheflu.com/why-the-bird-flu-virus-is-less-deadly-but-more-dangerous.htm)
<span class="s9">**If you're a ……….**</span> it extremely dangerous<span class="s1">.</span>

**2.No extinction**
<span class="s5">**Posner 5**</span><span class="s1">**,** </span><span class="s3">law prof, 5—Senior Lecturer</span>, U Chicago Law. Judge on the US Court of Appeals 7th Circuit. AB from Yale and LLB from Harvard. (Richard, Catastrophe, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html, JJ)

Yet<span class="s2"> **the fact that Homo ……….**</span>. And there is always a lust time.

**3.Warming’s an alt cause to disease**
<span class="s5">**Morse, 04**</span>(Stephen, PhD, director of the Center for Public Health Preparedness, at the Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University, May 2004, “Emerging and Reemerging Infectious Diseases: A Global Problem,” http://www.actionbioscience.org/newfrontiers/morse.html, Hensel)
Morse: I think that <span class="s2">global warming ………..</span>, generally, it’s of concern.

===*FAMINE=== 
Agriculture fails because essential ground nutrients are lost when harvesting crops
Drechsel, Kunze and Penning de Vries 01 **[Pay Drechsel, Senior Scientist (Environmental and Soil Science) and IWMI's Subregional Director for West Africa , Dagmar Kunze, FAO Regional Office for Africa (RAF), Frits Penning de Vries, was Principal Researcher and Douglas Merrey was Director for Africa, “Soil nutrient depletion and population growth in sub-Saharan Africa: A Malthusian nexus?” Population and Environment. New York: Mar 2001. Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 411, proquest] //CG//**
**//In comparison with erosion,//** //……… corresponds with empirical evidence **(Drechsel & Penning de Vries, in press).**//
//Limits and bans on exports cause famine//
//Bradsher and Martin, **08 (Keith Bradsher and AndrewMartin June 30, 2008 [“Hoarding Nations Drive Food Costs Ever Higher” The New York Times [[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/30/business/worldbusiness/30trade.html?_r=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss&oref=slogin]]]**// **CG**
**BANGKOK —** At least 29 ……… **5,500 pounds a year ago.**

New tech means farmers will always produce more food
Zubrin 11(Dr. Robert Zubrin, president of Pioneer Astronautics, Senior Fellow with the Center for Security Policy “WHY IT’S WRONG TO AGREE WITH THE MALTHUSIANS ABOUT ETHANOL” May 13, 2011**[[http://www.ilcorn.org/daily-update/182-why-it-rsquo-s-wrong-to-agree-with-the-malthusians-about-ethanol/)//|**http://www.ilcorn.org/daily-update/182-why-it-rsquo-s-wrong-to-agree-with-the-malthusians-about-ethanol/)//**]]** CG
**In an op-ed article printed in the ……….**crop yields everywhere.**

==Case Negs== 
===Carbon Pipelines=== 
====**Warming Adv (Creds to Vikram)**==== 

=====**1NC**===== 
**Carbon sequestration fails –**

**1.) Leaks**
Casey <span class="s1">**Johnston**</span>, July 6th, 20<span class="s1">**10**</span>, associate writer, Ars Technica, gadgets, privacy, tech culture, <span class="s2">“Carbon sequestration too leaky to stop global warming,”</span> [[http://arstechnica.com/science/2010/07/carbon-sequestration-too-leaky-to-stop-global-warming/]] vk

<span class="s3">Carbon</span><span class="s4"> dioxide </span>……..<span class="s3"> working against us.</span>

**2.) Takes too long**
Emily <span class="s1">**Rochon et al**</span>, May 20<span class="s1">**08**</span>, peer reviewed, Greenpeace, “False Hope: Why carbon capture and storage won’t save the climate,” http://www.probeinternational.org/False%20Hope%20--%20Why%20carbon%20capture%20and%20storage%20won%92t%20save%20the%20climate.pdf

<span class="s3">CCS cannot deliver </span>……<span class="s3"> dangerous climate change.”</span><span class="s4">80</span>

**Turn- The plan trades off with renewable energy sources**
<span class="s2">**Parfomak and Folger 7** </span>[Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Resources, Science, and Industry Division, **Specialist in Energy Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division**
**Paul and Peter, CRS Report for Congress, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues,” Scholar]**

**<span class="s5">In addition to …..</span> <span class="s3">and environmental policies</span><span class="s5">.</span>**


The plan can’t solve and distracts from reduction of CO2 emissions – that’s the onlylong-termsolution to warming
**Peter** Friederici**, October 11th, 20**10**, writer, Pacific Standard, <span class="s2">“Ocean Carbon Sequestration: The World’s Best Bad Idea,”</span> [[http://www.psmag.com/environment/ocean-carbon-sequestration-the-worlds-best-bad-idea-23521/]] vk

<span class="s3">The best option </span>…….<span class="s3"> the best solution.</span><span class="s4">”</span>

=====2NC===== 
**NASA Aqua satellites disprove the impact**
Owen <span class="s1">**McShane,**</span> chairman of the policy panel of the New Zealand Climate Science Coalition and director of the Centre for Resource Management Studies, 20<span class="s1">**08**</span>
(Cites Roy Spencer, principal research scientist for U of Alabama in Huntsville and recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, “Climate change confirmed but global warming is cancelled”, The National Business Review (New Zealand), Lexis)

Atmospheric scientists generally agree that <span class="s1">………</span>. The responses will be fun to watch.

**4.) Clouds tilt feedback negative**
<span class="s2">**Spencer & Braswell 8**</span>
Roy W. Spencer Recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, and William D. Braswell, Nichols Research Corporation [Both of the Earth System Science Center, U of Alabama], June 12 2008, lead authors of “Potential Biases in Feedback Diagnosis from Observational Data: A Simple Model Demonstration” and quoted in an article on ScienceDaily titled “Has Global Warming Research Misinterpreted Cloud Behavior?”, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2008/06/080611184722.htm

Climate <span class="s1">experts agree</span> that <span class="s1">……</span> warming problem much more difficult to figure out."


**Consensus is a joke – the science is turning negative**
<span class="s2">**US Senate Report ‘9**</span>
(Date Updated, “More Than 700 International Scientists Dissent Over Man-Made Global Warming Claims Scientists Continue to Debunk ‘Consensus’ in 2008 & 2009,” http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=83947f5d-d84a-4a84-ad5d-6e2d71db52d9)

Over 700 dissenting …… have faced threats and intimidation - LINK & LINK ]

====**<span class="s4">ERC CP (Creds to Kevin)</span>**==== 

=====**<span class="s4">1NC</span>**===== 
<span class="s1">**The Counterplan solves 100% of the aff**</span>
<span class="s1">**Mantra Energy 10** [</span>June 28; Mantra has applied for a patent for its Electro Reduction of Carbon Dioxide (ERC) process. The ERC process has been under development for 9 years, and was originally developed by Professor Colin Oloman at the University of British Columbia’s Clean Energy Research Centre. For the past two years, the development process has taken place in Mantra’s labs, funded by a blend of equity and government grants, the latter from National Research Council – Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). “Mantra Successfully Completes Carbon Recycling Development Program and Is Now Ready for First On-Site Demonstration Project” (http://www.mantraventuregroup.com/Press/PressReleases/tabid/359/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/6/Mantra-Successfully-Completes-Carbon-Recycling-Development-Program-and-Is-Now-Ready-for-First-Ever-On-Site-Demonstration-Project.aspx)[KC]

As a final ……<span class="s2"> ERC demonstration project.</span>
=====**2NC Solvency Run**===== 
**The Counterplan solves C02 management in markets such as industry, fossil fuel combustion, and fossil fuel utilities**
<span class="s1">**The Need 9** </span>[Mcilvaine: Promoting renewable alternative energy sources “Carbon Recycling with the Electroreduction of Carbon Dioxide (ERC)” (http://www.mcilvainecompany.com/Decision_Tree/subscriber/CO2DescriptionTextLinks/Mantra.pdf)[KC]

<span class="s2">Mantra's objective ………. as a fuel additive.</span>

<span class="s1">**CP solves the aff**</span>
<span class="s1">**Mantra Energy 10**</span><span class="s2"> [</span>June 28; Mantra has applied for a patent for its Electro Reduction of Carbon Dioxide (ERC) process. The ERC process has been under development for 9 years, and was originally developed by Professor Colin Oloman at the University of British Columbia’s Clean Energy Research Centre. For the past two years, the development process has taken place in Mantra’s labs, funded by a blend of equity and government grants, the latter from National Research Council – Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). “Mantra Successfully Completes Carbon Recycling Development Program and Is Now Ready for First On-Site Demonstration Project” (http://www.mantraventuregroup.com/Press/PressReleases/tabid/359/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/6/Mantra-Successfully-Completes-Carbon-Recycling-Development-Program-and-Is-Now-Ready-for-First-Ever-On-Site-Demonstration-Project.aspx)[KC]
As a final component ………..<span class="s3"> ERC demonstration project.</span>

**CP solves steel-carbon and water make steel**
**The Need 9** <span class="s4">[Mcilvaine: Promoting renewable alternative energy sources “Carbon Recycling with the Electroreduction of Carbon Dioxide (ERC)” (http://www.mcilvainecompany.com/Decision_Tree/subscriber/CO2DescriptionTextLinks/Mantra.pdf)[KC]</span>
<span class="s3">Steel Picklingis ……….</span>, consuming an estimated 5Mt/year.

**CP solves steel**
**Kristof 9** [Larry, Mantra Venture Group, leader in ERC technologies “Capitalizing on Carbon Dioxide, Emerging Technologies hold promise for the steel industry” ([[http://www.altenergymag.com/emagazine.php?issue_number=09.06.01&article=kristof]]) [KC]
<span class="s3">Hydrochloric acid is currently ……….</span> for on-demand release of hydrogen.

**Trades off with steel – also takes out the case – makes widespread implementation less likely**
**Parfomak et al 9** [Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure @ CRS
Paul, (“Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues”)]

<span class="s3">**If some form of CCS is**</span> …….<span class="s3"> **for widespread CCS implementation**</span>.

===Natives=== 
====**Topicality**==== 
**1. Interpretation – the United States is the 50 States, DC, and Puerto Rico**
<span class="s1">**USDA 08**</span> (“Regulations Governing the Financing of Commercial Sales of Agricultural Commodities § 17.2 Definition of terms,” P.L. 480 Federal Regulations, Last modified: Monday, April 14, 2008 06:13:23 PM, [[http://www.fas.usda.gov/excredits/FoodAid/Title%201/pl00172.html%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|http://www.fas.usda.gov/excredits/FoodAid/Title%201/pl00172.html]])
<span class="s2">**United States – the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico**</span><span class="s3">.</span>

**2. Violation – Native Americans have separate sovereign territory – they are not legally part of the United States**
<span class="s1">**Rehnquist 91**</span> (William Rehnquist, Former Chief Justice of The Supreme Court, Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Potawatomi Tribe, 1991, [[http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=US&vol=498&invol=505]]
<span class="s3">A doctrine of </span><span class="s2">**Indian tribal …… of tribal sovereign immunity**</span><span class="s3">. [498 U.S. 505, 511]</span>

====**<span class="s3">Racism</span>**==== 

**2. The affirmative’s depiction of racism inscribes a mentality of victimhood that only makes the problem worse**
<span class="s1">**Bradley 09**</span> (Anthony, PhD in philosophy, Research fellow, Acton Institute, Visiting professor of theology at The King's College, Bachelor of Science in biological sciences from Clemson University, a Master of Divinity from Covenant Theological Seminary, and a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Westminster Theological Seminary The Marxist Roots of Black Liberation Theology, 2 April 2008, http://www.acton.org/commentary/443_marxist_roots_of_black_liberation_theology.php)
Black Liberation Theology …..<span class="s4"> **rather than unites**</span>.

**3. War is the root cause of racism, not reverse causal**
<span class="s1">**Mertus 99**</span> (Julie, Professor and co-director of the Ethics and Peace program, American University’s School of International Service, “The Role of Racism as a Cause or Factor in Wars and Civil Conflict, International Council on Human Rights Policy,” http://www.ichrp.org/paper_files/112_w_01.pdf)

<span class="s3">The </span><span class="s2">**war**</span><span class="s3"> impacted on …….</span><span class="s2"> **and frustrations of the populace**</span><span class="s3">.</span>
**4. Isolating and dismantling specific instances of racism for certain oppressed groups only masks overall racism – turns case**
<span class="s1">**Barndt 07**</span> (Joseph, director of Crossroads, a ministry to dismantle racism, “Understanding and Dismantling Racism,” p 118-119)
<span class="s2">**Just as “non-racism……… for the original disease**</span><span class="s3">.</span>

**Their causality is backwards – war is the root of injustice, not the other way around**
<span class="s1">**Goldstein 01**</span> (Joshua, IR Professor, American University, War and Gender, p 412)
<span class="s2">**The evidence**</span><span class="s3"> in this book </span><span class="s2">**suggests …… to be empirically inadequate**</span><span class="s3">.”</span>

**This turns the case – despite their good intentions, the aff can’t stop their advocacy from being co-opted and twisted to serve the goals of the elites who created the social problems the aff critiques in the first place**
<span class="s1">**Browne 95**</span> (Harry, former Libertarian Party candidate and Director of Public Policy, American Liberty Foundation, “Why Government Doesn’t Work,” p 19-20)
<span class="s2">**To get it enacted you’ll need …… of what you had intended**</span><span class="s3">. </span>

====**<span class="s3">Solvency</span>**==== 
**5. No solvency – different tribal requirements and weaknesses undercut the plan**
<span class="s1">**Emery et al 06**</span> (Mary, North Central Regional Center for Rural Development, Milan Wall, Heartland Center for Leadership Development, Corry Bregendahl, North Central Regional Center for Rural Development, Cornelia Flora, North Central Regional Center for Rural Development, “Economic Development in Indian Country: Redefining Success”, 8/30, The Online Journal of Rural Research and Policy Issue 4, ojrrp.org/journals/ojrrp/article/download/32/30)
<span class="s3">Clearly, </span><span class="s5">**one-size-fits-all …..**</span><span class="s2"> **enterprise development boards**</span><span class="s3">.</span>

**6. Plan fails – multiple reasons**
<span class="s1">**Migliaccio et al 10**</span> (Giovanni C., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering at UNM, Geri Knoebel, Senior Program Manager at Alliance for Transportation Research Institute, Rebecca Martinez, Research Assistant and M.S. Candidate at UNM, “Identification of Results-Oriented Public Involvement Strategies Between Transportation Agencies and Native American Tribal Communities”, November, National Cooperative Highway Research Program, Web-Only Document 171, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_w171.pdf]])
When a transportation project is ……<span class="s4"> **the land in question**</span>.

**7. Multiple barriers to the aff**
<span class="s1">**Migliaccio et al 10**</span> (Giovanni C., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering at UNM, Geri Knoebel, Senior Program Manager at Alliance for Transportation Research Institute, Rebecca Martinez, Research Assistant and M.S. Candidate at UNM, “Identification of Results-Oriented Public Involvement Strategies Between Transportation Agencies and Native American Tribal Communities”, November, National Cooperative Highway Research Program, Web-Only Document 171, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/nchrp/nchrp_w171.pdf]])
<span class="s2">**Collaboration among stakeholders …….. Tribes**</span><span class="s3"> in a timely manner.</span>

===<span class="s3">Gas Tax</span>=== 
====**Deficit Advantage**==== 
**2. Turn – gas tax increases are a net worse to the economy because they raise prices and lower consumer spending**
<span class="s1">**Ferguson 07**</span> (Jake Ferguson, Major Themes in Economics, spring 2007, “Should the United States Increase the Federal Gasoline Tax?” http://business.uni.edu/economics/Themes/ferguson.pdf)
One fear expressed by those ……<span class="s2"> **buy other goods**</span>.
**3. Interdependence makes China relations resilient and means no risk of war**
<span class="s1">**Tung 03**</span> (PhD, Center for IR @ National Chengchi University, Chen-Yuan, “The Impact of Bilateral Economic Interdependence on US-China Relations,” Lexis)
<span class="s3">**U.S.-China economic interdependence …….**</span><span class="s4">the United States in the future.63 </span>

====**Manufacturing Advantage**==== 

**2. Reuters also says manufacturing will decline because of the Eurozone – this puts them in a double bind: either A) that’s not true and the status quo solves**
<span class="s1">**The Week 12**</span> (“Is the U.S. insulated from the European debt crisis?” http://theweek.com/article/index/228963/is-the-us-insulated-from-the-european-debt-crisis)
<span class="s4">Yes. </span><span class="s3">**The U.S. recovery could ….. to derail growth**</span><span class="s4">." </span>

**Or B) it’s an alt cause that they can’t solve**
**WSJ 7/30** (BEN CASSELMAN and CONOR DOUGHERTY (Wall Street Journal, Federal Spending Cutbacks Slow Recovery Sharp Drop in Military, Stimulus Spending Take a Toll on Economic Rebound, 2012, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444840104577553551718500764.html)
But the <span class="s2">**budget cuts come …….**</span> growth for the rest of the year**.**

**3. Reuters then lists several alt causes that the aff doesn’t solve**
<span class="s1">**Reuters 7/2**</span>(“U.S. manufacturing shrinks, 1st time in nearly 3 yrs,” pg online @ http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/07/02/usa-economy-idINDEE8610EU20120702)
<span class="s2">**Manufacturing** **will**</span> likely <span class="s2">**stay weak …..**</span> to stabilize in most markets.

**4. No internal link – only 12 percent of the plan goes into manufacturing**
**The Department of the Treasure and The Council of Economic Advisors 10** (October 21st, “AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/infrastructure_investment_report.pdf)
<span class="s3">**Investing in transportation infrastructure …….**</span><span class="s4"> national distribution of wages.</span>

**5. Their O’Hanlon evidence is about cuts in defense spending – they don’t solve**
<span class="s1">**O’Hanlon 12**</span>(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon)
<span class="s2">**The U**</span>nited <span class="s2">**S**</span>tates, and its civilian leaders, <span class="s2">**cannot …….**</span> urgency in addressing the issue.

**6. US R&D is inevitable – their author**
<span class="s1">**Lind 12**</span> (Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @ http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)
Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps …….<span class="s2"> **general upward growth path.**</span>

**8. Science is an alternative cause to defense industrial base decline**
<span class="s1">**O’Hanlon 12**</span>(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon)
<span class="s4">Such </span><span class="s3">**issues in the defense ……,****which is aging rapidly**</span><span class="s4"> in numerous sectors</span>

**( ) Their AISI evidence says the steel used from the plan necessarily comes from the US—that crushes the industry.**
<span class="s1">**Ikenson 02**</span> – is a policy analyst at Cato's Center for Trade Policy Studies (Daniel J. Ikenson, “Steel Trap: How Subsidies and Protectionism Weaken the U.S. Steel Industry”, Cato Institute, 3/1/02, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/trade-briefing-paper/steel-trap-how-subsidies-protectionism-weaken-us-steel-industry]])
Protectionism, Subsidies, and Overcapacity The verdict of the marketplace is unambiguous: <span class="s2">**…….. with larger market shares**</span>.

====**Solvency**==== 
**1. No solvency – increased gas tax means less people drive – results in less funding**
<span class="s1">**Policy Today 12**</span> (A twice-monthly digital magazine spanning topics in politics, economics, law and society “America’s Crumbling Infrastructure” July 2012 [[http://www.policytoday.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=274&Itemid=149]])
<span class="s3">**Regarding any increases in the ……. less tax revenue**</span><span class="s4">.</span>

===**<span class="s4">NIB</span>**=== 

====**<span class="s4">Econ</span>**==== 

=====**<span class="s4">1NC</span>**===== 

**1. Won’t create sustainable growth - Japan proves**
<span class="s2">**Gregory, 11**</span> --- research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford (8/21/2011, Paul Roderick, “Why We Don't Need An Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why,” [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2011/08/21/why-we-dont-need-an-infrastructure-bank-japan-is-why/]])
A president who preaches ……..<span class="s3"> the Brooklyn Bridge.</span>

**2. Infrastructure won’t stimulate the economy in the short term—multiplier effect takes to long**
<span class="s2">**Kurtzleben 11**</span>-Data Reporter @ US News and World Report, Former Research Assistant @ George Washington University, MA in International Relations, Media, and Public Affairs @ George Washington University [Danielle, US News, “Are Infrastructure Projects the Answer to America’s Jobs Problem?” 8/22/2011, [[http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2011/08/22/are-infrastructure-projects-the-answer-to-americas-jobs-problem]]]
<span class="s3">The theory behind ……</span> got pretty serious problems."

**3. Government stimulus empirically fails—funding misallocation**
<span class="s2">**Chip 12**</span>-Board Member @ the Center for Immigration Studies, Senior International Tax Partner @ Covington & Burlington LLP, served on the tax committee @ the US Chamber of Commerce [William, The American Conservative, “Why Stimulus Fails,” 2/29/2012, [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/why-stimulus-fails/]]]
<span class="s3">Nearly three years after ………</span> on the shoulders of Keynes.”

=====**2NC**===== 
**Current Federal system of allocation is broken which negates any theoretical benefit- three reasons**
<span class="s1">**Istrate and Puentes 09** <Emilia, Senior Research Analyst at the Metropolitan Policy Program and Robert, Senior Fellow and Director, Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, Investing for Success: Examining a Federal Capital Budget and a National Infrastructure Bank, Brookings, December 2009, </span>http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/12/10%20infrastructure%20puentes/1210_infrastructure_puentes.pdf, SPS>
<span class="s1">In short, the federal ……… results of federal investment. </span>

**No quality control—takes out solvency**
**FDL ’11** (Fire Dog Lake, “Infrastructure Bank Creates More Non-Accountable Decision-Makers”. http://firedoglake.com/2011/08/04/infrastructure-bank-creates-more-non-accountable-decision-makers/)
But <span class="s1">where would the money ……. the interests of US citizens</span>

====**Solvency**==== 

**Stimulus would fail**
**1. Leads to massive inflation – upsets all underpinnings of the economy**
<span class="s1">**Cochrane, 11** </span>- professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, AQR Capital Management Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute (John H. “Inflation and Debt” http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/Cochrane_Inflation_and_Debt_National_Affairs.pdf)

For several years….. the <span class="s2">**world wars.**</span>

**2. Infrastructure stimulus causes implementation delays – guts solvency**
<span class="s1">**de Rugy* and Mitchell** 11</span> ***a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Her primary research interests include the U.S. economy** a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. His primary research interests include economic freedom and economic growth, government spending, state and local fiscal policy, public choice, and institutional economics. (Veronique and Mathew " WOULD MORE INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING STIMULATE THE ECONOMY?" Mercatus Center George Mason University September 2011]

The problems with infrastructure ……….<span class="s3"> spending surge remains.</span>

<span class="s4">**3.** </span>**Crowds out the private sector – kills the economy**
Jason E. **Taylor & Vedder 10** is professor of economics at Central Michigan University and Richard K. Vedderis distinguished professor of economics at Ohio University and adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Stimulus by Spending Cuts: Lessons from 1946,” Cato Policy Report, May/June 2010, http://www.cato.org/pubs/policy_report/v32n3/cp32n3-1.html]

<span class="s4">The illusion ……. — hence their invisibility. </span>

**4. Kills Heg –**
**a) Deficit spending kills dollar hegemony**
<span class="s3">**Caploe, ‘08**</span> [David, The Straits Times, “It's the fiscal deficit, stupid,” Sept 2 Lexis]

<span class="s5">The result of </span><span class="s4">dollar hegemony …….. already weakened economy.</span>

**b)****Dollar hegemony is key to primacy and power projection**
**Kirshner 8** [Jonathan Kirshner, Department of Government @ Cornell University, “Review of International Political Economy,” august 1, eview of International Political Economy,15:3,418 — 438 Informaworld]
Setting aside these ……. dollar primacy for the US.

**c) Nuclear War**
<span class="s4">Kagan 12</span> – Senior Fellow @ the Brookings Institution, Robert, The importance of U.S. military might shouldn’t be underestimated, Washington Post, 2-2, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-importance-of-us-military-might-shouldnt-be-underestimated/2012/02/02/gIQAX5pVlQ_story.html
These are sensible arguments. ………<span class="s4"> they will make other arrangements.</span>

===<span class="s4">Inland Waterways</span>=== 

====**Agriculture**==== 
**US oil demand keeps relations with Saudi Arabia stable – Any decrease will put both at risk.**
<span class="s2">**Bond 2012**</span> **(Steven, staff writer, "Saudi oil production to stay high on US demand, Iran sanctions" AME http://www.ameinfo.com/293804.html**<span class="s3">) </span>

Last week oil prices ………… for more non-Opec competition."
**Relations key to stop Saudi prolif**
<span class="s4">**BORGER 11**</span> (Julian, diplomatic editor, "A Saudi Bomb?" The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/jun/29/saudi-arabia-prince-turki-arab-spring-iran/print)

<span class="s5">As for its own weapon………</span><span class="s1"> **has frayed considerably.**</span>

**Saudi prolif leads to nuclear war**
**London 10 (Herbert, professor emeritus of NYU, "The coming crisis in the Middle East," Hudson Institute, http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7101&pubType=HI_Opeds)**

<span class="s5">For Sunni nations like ……….</span><span class="s1"> **lead to a nuclear exchange.**</span>

**Can’t solve – their Brown evidence concludes Amazon Deforestation is inevitable absent a stabilization of world population growth**
<span class="s6">**Brown, 1AC Author, 9** </span>--- President of the Earth Policy Institute (Lester R. Brown, the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, a MacArthur Fellowship, the 1987 United Nations' Environment Prize, the 1989 World Wide Fund for Nature Gold Medal, and the 1994 Blue Planet Prize for his "exceptional contributions to solving global environmental problems." In 2012, he was inducted into the Earth Hall of Fame Kyoto, “Growing Demand for Soybeans Threatens Amazon Rainforest”, December 30, 2009, http://www.earth-policy.org/plan_b_updates/2009/update86)
The Amazon rainforest sustains one …….<span class="s7"> worldwide as soon as possible. </span>

**Beef exports is an alt cause to Amazon Collapse**
<span class="s6">**CIFOR, ’04**</span> (The Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR) was established in 1993 as part of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) in response to global concerns about the social, environmental and economic consequences of forest loss and degradation. CIFOR research produces knowledge and methods needed to improve the well-being of forest-dependent people and to help tropical countries manage their forests wisely for sustained benefits. This research is done in more than two dozen countries, in partnership with numerous partners. Since it was founded, CIFOR has also played a central role in influencing global and national forestry policies, “ Hamburger Connection Fuels Amazon Destruction,” [[http://www.veganimal.info/IMG/pdf/rapportCIFORamazon-2.pdf]])
<span class="s8">The </span>Brazil Government’s National …….<span class="s8"> of Amazonian rainforest. </span>

**Droughts make deforestation inevitable**
<span class="s6">**Cubby**</span>, Sydney Morning Herald, 3-13-<span class="s6">**09**</span> [Ben, “Amazon Rainforest may be ruined by drought” http://www.smh.com.au/environment/global-warming/amazon-jungle-may-be-ruined-by-drought-20090312-8wih.html]
<span class="s1">HUGE swathes of the ……..</span><span class="s9"> the earth's climate.</span>

**Turn – ethanol jacks food prices and lack of long-term viability means no impact turns**
<span class="s10">**Eaves 07**</span><span class="s11"> (</span>James Eaves, assistant professor in the Department of Finance and Insurance at Laval University, and Stephen Eaves, vice-president of Eaves Devices, 10-03-07, Washington post, “Is Ethanol the 'Energy Security' Solution?,” [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=8730]] )
<span class="s12">**But is ethanol ………**</span> supply of gasoline.

**Every unique increase in prices kills billions**
<span class="s10">**Tampa Tribune 96**</span> (Paul Power Jr., “Grain shortage growing problem,” 1-20, p. Lexis)
<span class="s1">**There are more ……. dollar a day or less**</span><span class="s13">."</span>

====<span class="s1">**Steel**</span>==== 
**Imports solve the internal link**
(<span class="s14">**Strategic Materials Protection Board**</span> December 12, <span class="s14">**2008** </span>Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology & Logistics) Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Industrial Policy) Executive Secretary to the Strategic Materials Protection Board http://www.acq.osd.mil/mibp/docs/report_from_2nd_mtg_of_smpb_12-2008.pdf)
For a material to …….for titanium sponge.)


**Steel not important for the defense base- The industry hypes its own importance**
(Richard A. <span class="s14">**McCormack,**</span> Richard McCormack is editor and publisher of Manufacturing & Technology News , April 17, 200<span class="s14">**9**</span>, Manufacturing and technology news volume 16, no. 9 “Defense Department To The U.S. Specialty Metals Industry: We Don’t Need You”)
<span class="s1">The health and wellbeing …… of these specialty metals</span>.”
===== ===== 
====**Heg**==== 

**2.) Inland waterways aren’t key to heg – other transport methods solve**
<span class="s2">**Gardner 96**</span> [Major Gregory, School of Advanced Military Studies, “INFRASTRUCTURE: THE FOURTH ELEMENT OF STRATEGIC MOBILITY”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA314299]

<span class="s1">**Inland waterway traffic in the US ……**</span> to transport military cargo.


**4.) US sea transport capabilities are the best in the world**
<span class="s3">**Wilson 10**</span> [JR, specialist in aerospace defense and technology, authored or co-authored more than 100 books, “The State of U.S. Sealift”, Jul 6]

<span class="s2">**On any given day, …….**</span> and Mercy offer that capability.”

**6.) Heg doesn’t solve conflicts**
<span class="s1">**Preble, 10**</span> Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at CATO, “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”, Aug 3rd, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2010/08/03/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]]

Most in Washington still …….. pick up the tab.


**Multiple political, economic, and structural global changes make hegemony unsustainable**
<span class="s2">**Haass 8**</span> (Richard , President of the Council on Foreign Relations (Bottom of Form The Age of Nonpolarity What Will Follow U.S. Dominance, Foreign Affairs, May/June)

But even if great-power ……..<span class="s1">**.**</span> Nonpolarity begets nonpolarity.


**10.) No transition wars --- nuclear deterrence checks**
<span class="s2">**Ikenberry, ‘08**</span>, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton, 2008 [John G., The Rise of China and the Future of the West, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]

The most important benefit of these <span class="s2">**…… a historical process.**</span>

====**Economy**==== 

**1.) Econ’s resilient – innovations solve**
<span class="s4">**Leonhardt**</span>, New York Times, National Bureau of Economic Research, <span class="s4">**2005**</span> [David, October 8, Business Cycle Data]

MEMPHIS - The nearly empty Airbus 310 …… calls them "mini-recessions."

**2.) The recession disproves the impact – the US economy was tanked and there was no nuclear war – prefer empirics, they’re definitionally a reflection of reality – their authors are all just speculating in a vaccuum**

**3.) Economic collapse solves war – forces refocus**
<span class="s1">**Bennett and Nordstrom**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="s1">**2k**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]

In this analysis, we focus on ……n account for substitutability between them.

**4.) US isn’t key to the global economy --- decoupling solves**
<span class="s4">**Hong**</span>, writer for Xinhua, <span class="s4">**2008**</span> [Liu, Rise of emerging markets shapes global economic map, Xinhua, 8/24, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-08/25/content_9706441.htm]

WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- In the past, a ……..<span class="s1"> global economic growth</span>," he told Xinhua.

**No impact to recession**
W. Michael <span class="s4">**Cox**</span>, senior vp and chief economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, IBD, 1-9-<span class="s4">**2002**</span>

Since 1960, the average recession …… has the makings of the next boom.

====**Warming**==== 
**Warming tipping points inevitable**
**NPR 9** (1/26, Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says, All Things Considered, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)
<span class="s1">Climate change is essentially irreversible</span><span class="s5">, …… level rise and drought.</span>

**Global warming is not anthropogenic – their models are flawed. And even if they’re right, increased C02 is good**
**Anderson 9** <span class="s1">**[Charles, PhD, Material Physicist, “A Catastrophic Anthropogenic Global Warming Denier”, March 14, http://objectivistindividualist.blogspot.com/2009/03/catastrophic-anthropogenic-global.html]**</span>
I became interested in the issue of …….. <span class="s2">**certainly**</span> is <span class="s2">**not a catastrophe**</span>

**India and China make emissions inevitable**
<span class="s3">**Sensenbrenner 9**</span> – Congressman and ranking minority member of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming (James, 4/3, Technology Is the Answer to Climate Change, WSJ, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123871985916184973.html#mod=loomia?loomia_si=t0:a16:g2:r3:c0.191864:b23626456,)
The U.S. cannot reduce the growth of ……… I don't blame them.

**Inland waterway modernization hurts the environment**
<span class="s4">**IWR 12**</span> [Institute for Water Resources, US Army Corps of Engineers, “U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization Strategy: Options for the Future”,<span class="s6">[[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/P|http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Options_for_the_Future_Working_Draft_v1_2012_Apr_01.pdf]]</span><span class="s1">**, April]**</span>
<span class="s1">**All forms of transportation ………**</span> and rail for many types of impacts.


====<span class="s1">**Solvency**</span>==== 
**IWTF planning fails – leads to cost overruns and program failures**
**Stern, 4-12**
Analyst in Natural Resources Policy for the Congressional Research Service (Charles V., 4/12/2012, “Inland Waterways: Recent Proposals and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf)
<span class="s1">In addition to ……..for these reforms.</span><span class="s9">25</span>

**No waterway congestion – current infrastructure can handle extra load**
**NWF, ’08**
The National Waterways Fund, a think tank dedicated to studying American waterways (“Waterways: Working for America”, National Waterways Fund, www.americanwaterways.com/TTI/tti_study_brochure.pdf)
<span class="s1">America’s Waterways Are ……. solution for the future.</span>

===<span class="s1">Bering Strait</span>=== 
====**Topicality**==== 
**The United States doesn’t have jurisdiction over all of the Bering Strait**
<span class="s2">**Elferink 91** </span>[ Alex Oude Elferink<span class="s3">; </span>Research Associate, NILOS, Law Faculty, University of Utrecht,Netherlands; “The 1990 USSR-USA Maritime BoundaryAgreement”; 6 Int'l J. Estuarine & Coastal L. 41]JJ

<span class="s4">**In Article 1 of ……**</span> of the United States

**– infrastructure investment requires the building or maintenance of physical assets**
<span class="s2">**Chan, et al, ’09** </span>[March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, [[http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]]]
<span class="s4">**Investment can be ……..**</span> not otherwise have occurred).

====**Spending DA**==== 
**The recovery is gaining momentum, but is fragile – maintaining current trends is key**
Ewen <span class="s2">**MacAskill and**</span> Dominic <span class="s2">**Rushe**</span>, analysts for the Guardian,<span class="s2">**2012**</span>, “OECD says US economy is recovering but income inequality problematic,” The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/26/oecd-us-economy-income-inequality?newsfeed=true
<span class="s4">**The OECD**</span>, which produces …… according to the report.

**Increased spending kills the economy – Europe proves**
Johnny <span class="s2">**Munkhammar**</span>, adjunct scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and MP in Sweden, 6-27-<span class="s2">**2012**</span>, “The End of Stimulus Policy,” American Enterprise Institute, http://www.aei.org/files/2012/06/27/-the-end-of-stimulus-policy_173446935952.pdf
It is clear from the European ………<span class="s4"> **promoting job growth**</span>.

**Econ decline causes war**
Earl <span class="s2">**Tilford**</span>, PhD in history from George Washington University and served for thirty-two years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army, <span class="s2">**2008**</span>, “Critical Mass: Economic Leadership or Dictatorship,” The Cedartown Standard, Lexis
Could it happen again? <span class="s1">**…….. point very quickly.**</span>


====**Solvency**==== 
**Mistrust undermines the tunnel**
<span class="s5">**PACIFIC SHIPPER 2007**</span> (‘Strunnel' could transform Alaska's transport system, Sep 10, Lexis)

<span class="s1">Given the current state ……. might not work</span><span class="s6">.</span>


**The plan causes US-Chinese conflict**
**FTSE Global Markets 07** [FTSE Global Markets, June 2007, “Strait Across”, Issue 19, [[http://www.ftseglobalmarkets.com/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=1035:strait-across]], DMintz]
Despite the potentially ……..<span class="s1"> an energy perspective.”</span>

**The plan would undermine US-Canada cooperation**
<span class="s5">**FINANCIAL POST 2007**</span> (National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing, “Russia's tunnel vision,” April 19, LEXIS)
<span class="s4">Russia </span>yesterday<span class="s4"> ……</span> and economists said.

**Bad US-Canada relations cause Russian Artic expansionism**
<span class="s1">**Burney & Hampson - June 21st**</span>**[DEREK H. BURNEY is Senior Strategic Adviser at Norton Rose Canada and served as Canadian Ambassador to the United States from 1989 to 1993. He serves on the Board of Directors of TransCanada. FEN OSLER HAMPSON is Chancellor’s Professor and Director of the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University. Foreign Affairs, 6-21-12]**

<span class="s1">**One would also think ……… interests in the region.**</span>

**And, Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war**
<span class="s1">**Staples 09,**</span>**8/10/2009 (Steven - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)**
<span class="s7">The fact is, </span><span class="s4">**the Arctic is ……**</span><span class="s1"> **use of nuclear weapons.”**</span>

=<span class="s1">**2nrs**</span>= 

==<span class="s1">**unt**</span>== 

<span class="s1">**rd 1--hurricane sandy aff**</span>
<span class="s1">**states and election**</span>

<span class="s1">**rd 4-HTF/gas tax**</span>
<span class="s1">**T-not investment**</span>

<span class="s1">**quarters--bering strait**</span>
<span class="s1">**states, elections**</span>

<span class="s1">**semis--natives**</span>
<span class="s1">**states, electionns**</span>

==<span class="s1">**memorial**</span>== 
<span class="s1">**rd 1-nib**</span>
<span class="s1">**state infrastruc banks, fiscal cliff**</span>

<span class="s1">**rd 3--port security**</span>
<span class="s1">**multilat cp, free trade da**</span>


==<span class="s1">**ut**</span>== 
<span class="s1">**rd 1-lng**</span>
<span class="s1">**resilience k**</span>

<span class="s1">**rd 3-natives**</span>
<span class="s1">**case turns-victimization turns**</span>

<span class="s1">**rd 5-airport racism**</span>
<span class="s1">**anthro**</span>

==<span class="s1">**samford**</span>== 
<span class="s1">**rd 1-port security**</span>
**multilat cp, free trade da**

**rd 3-next gen**
**anthro**

**rd 6- port dredging**
**states, debt ceiling**

==**emory**== 

**rd 1-nib**
**sib cp, hagel ptx**

**rd 4-hydrogen fuel**
**states, hagel**

**rd 5-dams**
**case-util, solvency, biod defense, anthro turns**

==**Colleyville**== 

**rd 2-camus/existentialism aff**
**anthro**

**rd3-disabilities**
**states, immig reform, case defense**

==**harvard**== 
**rd 1-guam**
**relocate to white beach cp, deterrence da**

**rd 4- bus fuel cells**
**immig reform, case d**


**rd 5- bus fuel cells**
**iimmig reform, case d**

**rd 7-climate adapt**
**states, fism**

==**Uga**== 

**rd 2-nanotech**
**states, immig reform**

**rd 4-nib**
**immig reform, case**

**rd 5-climate**
**states, immig reform**

==**TOC**== 
**rd 2 (Homelessness)**
**2nr-anthro**