[[toc]]
=Contact information= 
Aff- Satveer Kler ([[mailto:sunny5133@gmail.com|sunny5133@gmail.com]])
Neg- Theja Talla ([[mailto:rttalla@gmail.com|rttalla@gmail.com]])

Quick caveat about 2AC cites---I am happy to put the cards in full text of any 2AC block you want cites for, what I WILL NOT DO however is post up the entire block because it makes the wiki a mess and cluttery.
Any other questions and I'll happy to be of any assistance
=Affirmative= 
==1ACs== 
===Berkeley=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Plan__**</span></span>

**Plan text: The United States Coast Guard should implement a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service.**


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 1 is LIDAR__**</span></span>
**The plan makes LIDAR data usable**
**Streib 08** (K., Department of Electrical and Computational Engineering at Ohio State University, “A sensor based assessment of imminent collisions at right angle intersections”, Vehicular __[[#|Electronics]]__ and Safety, 2008 ICVES Conference, P. Abstract)//SK//
//This report summarizes the feasibility of using light detection and ranging (LIDAR) data to track an oncoming vehicle at a right angle intersection with the ultimate goal of determining the severity of a potential collision. The vehicle __[[#|tracking system]]__ (VTS) that was developed to transform raw LIDAR data into a useable format and track potential vehicles during consecutive scans will be described in detail. Furthermore, the results from tests using the VTS to track approaching vehicles on both simulated and experimental LIDAR data will be provided.//

//**Scenario 1 is Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance**//

//**LIDAR is the key internal link to it- Aff solves**//
//**DSB ’11-** a Federal Advisory Committee established to provide independent advice to the Secretary of Defense (Defense Science Board, 2011, “Counterinsurgency (COIN) Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Operations”, pg. 56 || RT)//
//When conducting population__‐__centric operations, mission planning, rehearsal, and execution all depend upon the availability of human__‐__scale terrain data – particularly when operations are arrayed over urban and complex terrain. Both LiDAR and SAR technologies have been harnessed in order to generate large volumes of terrain data of such scales, though many scientific and technical limitations prevent such terrain data from becoming ubiquitous. Older photogrammetric techniques are still viable when stereo imagery is available, but achieving human__‐__scale terrain models of useful post spacing or better is still a technical challenge with commercial __[[#|satellite]]__ imagery. Such terrain data is of great value in augmenting full motion video processing, which often requires high__‐__resolution base imagery and terrain data in order to be properly registered. It is also critical to effectively geo‐locating SIGINT at a human scale. Technologies for extracting 3D features from such high resolution terrain data have been developed under DARPA and Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration (ACTD) efforts, but there are still considerable technological hurdles to be overcome before a LiDAR or SAR collect can be transformed in near__‐__real time into an actionable mission__‐__planning, rehearsal, and execution dataset. The management of such data (for instance the LiDAR .las __[[#|point cloud]]__ with gridded terrain surfaces, 3D feature data, and behavioral data must be imputed to these features, e.g., door movements) is a technological frontier itself, which will require considerable work. In the end, the realization of a force structure capable of succeeding at the full spectrum of population__‐__centric operations will require the existence of high resolution 3D terrain data over the extent of this population, and any adjacent havens for nefarious actors. Thevalue conveyed by traditional ISR phenomenologies is highly dependent upon the availability of foundational data of the requisite scale, over which the ISR data can be arrayed. In the case of COIN ISR, this foundational data includes human__‐__scale data of the physical and built terrain. In general, the ability of ISR assets to successfully support COIN depends on the availability of such foundational data, which is often collected not by the IC, but by the topographic engineering community.//

//**<span style="color: #000000;">ISR solves the internal links to all of your impacts, independently solves hegemony and forward engagement</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000;">DOD 10 </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">(“Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance”, 2010, http://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>//SK
Joint Vision 2020 depends on information superiority for virtually every aspect of military activity. The combination of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), together with real-time communications and information processing technologies, is its enabler. It involves primarily electronic systems to find, watch and collect data from sources and provide it as information to users. ISR permeates almost every area of national security activity, from peace through war. It involves techniques and systems operating both passively and actively in all operational environments from subsurface to space. A key benefit of this capability, from data collection through warning to its timely use by warfighters, is political and/ or military success — through knowing more and knowing it sooner than opponents. ISR includes information about: all operational threats to U.S. and Allied lives, assets, and interests; military force movements; all spacelift vehicles, missile systems (mobile or fixed), and spacecraft; all aircraft types, land-operating systems, and surface/submerged maritime vessels; nuclear detonations; threats to friendly space assets; chemical and/or biological weapons; and other significant space, surface and subsurface events. ISR activities support the intelligence and warning needs of all Services, the National Command Authorities (NCA) and other government agencies, support U.S. and Allied operations, and assist in international treaty monitoring. The major goal of ISR is success through information dominance. Increasing demands for precise, finished intelligence on a wide range of defense intelligence requirements strain the resources currently available. Space-based intelligence collection capabilities have matured into powerful and reliable systems, able to meet a much larger fraction of the validated user requirements than ever before. Under today’s exploitation and dissemination paradigms, our available personnel, communications and hardware cannot fully utilize the available data. Thus the Intelligence Community is pursuing a full range of technologies not only to enhance the collection of necessary data but also to examine new ways to produce and disseminate the information our users need. This approach includes: • New and potentially revolutionary collection systems • New analysis and dissemination methods and paradigms • Significant improvements in data processing, storage-retrieval, and request-redistribution functions. An evolving concept to deal with the multiplicity of evolving ISR and related information distribution concepts is contained in the term “infosphere.” This construct involves information collection and integration across all activities (fusion), with followon processing to tailor its disseminated products for specific warfighters and other users. Specific concerns and evolving needs include the following: • The orbits of space-based ISR systems are currently predictable. However, if (per SatOps concepts) it becomes possible to maneuver them at will, an adversary would find it much more difficult to avoid detection or to interfere with them. Further, if they could be refueled on-orbit, they could be maneuvered to counter adversaries’ operational planning or direct attack, without shortening mission life. • Infrared detection of missile launches remains a key element of tactical warning; hence DoD’s support for the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program as a replacement for the aging Defense Support Program (DSP) warning satellites. • A space-based radar capability is needed to enable continuous (24-hour) full-global coverage. Benefits would include precision maps, detection and continuous tracking of sea, ground and air moving targets, and accurate real-time determination of orders of battle (OOBs). • Proliferation of nuclear/biological/chemical (NBC) weapons requires counterproliferation technologies and capabilities as soon as practical. • Transition from legacy systems to new ones, such as elevation of Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) and Joint Surveillance and Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) capabilities to space and the increasing use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and space sensor platforms, is needed to meet the ISR needs of warfighters everywhere.

**The impact is global conflict**
**Khalilzad 11** – Former US ambassador, former Professor @ Columbia Zalmay Khalilzad, PhD, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (2/8/11, National Review, “The Economy and National Security; If we don’t get our economic house in order, we risk a new era of multi-polarity,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad</span>
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of power. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. The closing of the gap between the United States and its rivals could intensify geopolitical competition among major powers, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, and undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation. The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars. American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions. As rival powers rise, Asia in particular is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition. Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

**Heg decline causes war, including China attacking Taiwan**
**Kagan et. al. 12** (Daniel W. Drezner, professor of international politics at Tufts University's Fletcher School, is a contributing editor to Foreign Policy and blogs at drezner.foreignpolicy.com. Gideon Rachman is chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Robert Kagan is senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of The World America Made. Foreign Policy Magazine, “ The Rise or Fall of the American Empire,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/14/the_rise_or_fall_of_the_american_empire?page=full)
The main point of my book, in fact, is to examine what might happen in the world should the United States prove incapable of continuing as the predominant power and slip into a rough equality with other powers, like China. I'm afraid it is optimistic to believe that China will pose only an economic challenge to the United States under those circumstances. The effects of a new multipolar world will be far-reaching. I sometimes think we have forgotten how countries behave as their power increases. We have been living so long in a world where one power has been so much more powerful than all the others. The existence of the American hegemon has forced all other powers to exercise unusual restraint, curb normal ambitions, and avoid actions that might lead to the formation of a U.S.-led coalition of the kind that defeated Germany twice, Japan once, and the Soviet Union, more peacefully, in the Cold War. The Chinese, as good historians, are acutely aware of the fate that befell these others and have worked hard to avoid a similar fate, following as best they can Deng Xiaoping's advice to "keep a low profile and never take the lead." As relative power shifts, however, that advice becomes harder and harder to follow. We saw some early signs of what the future might hold in China's increasing assertiveness in the South China Sea. The response of the United States, which swung in behind the nervous powers in the region, has possibly convinced the Chinese that their moves were premature. They may have themselves bought in too much to the widespread talk of America in decline. Were that decline to become real in the coming years, however, it is a certainty that Chinese pressures and probes will return. Greater relative power on China's part might also lead Beijing to become less patient with Taiwan's lack of movement toward acquiescing to the mainland's sovereignty. A situation in which U.S. power were declining, China's power were rising, and the Taiwan issue became fractious is practically a textbook instance of how wars start -- even if neither side wants war. That is why some have referred to Taiwan as East Asia's Sarajevo.

**Collapse causes lash-out. The U.S. will go down fighting**
**Goldstein 07** (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, as economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, other states are empowered. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and challengers eventually emerge who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to the ultima ratio of international politics, force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘hegemonic wars’, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve the order in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth (much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its acquisition of technology in key sectors that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the United States, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable, Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19

**Scenario 2 is Floods**

**LIDAR creates THE most accurate coastal data and is necessary for accurate flood and storm response**
**NOAA 12** (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Coastal Services Center, “Lidar 101: An Introduction to Lidar Technology, Data, and Applications.” Revised. Charleston, SC: NOAA Coastal Services Center., 2012, http://www.csc.noaa.gov/digitalcoast/_/pdf/lidar101.pdf)//SK//
//Lidar coverage is expanding rapidly along the U.S. shoreline, and as a result lidar data are increasingly being used for shoreline mapping, including defining shoreline positions and quantifying rates of shoreline change. Shoreline—and its many tidal datum variations—is commonly referenced as a boundary component in legal descriptions, as the point of origin for jurisdictional boundaries, and as the boundary between public and private ownership (Figure 61). These various definitions of shorelines are based on water levels that are influenced by tides and currents. The different shorelines shown above have traditionally been inferred from various indicators or proxies such as vegetation lines, dune lines, beach scarps, wet‒dry lines, and more (White and others, 2011). Long-term water level records have led to the development of datum-based shorelines that rely on known relationships between tidal, orthometric, and ellipsoidal vertical datums. Changes in shorelines through processes of accretion and erosion can be analyzed by measuring differences in past and present shoreline locations (Figure 6-2). This information is used to quantify erosion rates and adjust setback regulations. NOAA’s National Geodetic Survey, or NGS, started testing lidar data to map shorelines in 2000 and incorporated a lidar-derived shoreline in a chart for the first time in 2004. One of the main benefits of using lidar to map shorelines is that tide-coordination requirements are not as stringent as with the traditional photogrammetric procedures: it is typically only necessary to collect data below a certain tide stage, rather than within a narrow tide window (White and others, 2011). Topographic lidar provides multiple elevation readings per square meter but cannot penetrate the water surface (due to the laser’s wavelength). This results in a very densely sampled “dry” area on most coastlines but a lack of information seaward of water’s edge at the time of acquisition. Bathymetric lidar can, with a different wavelength, penetrate the water surface and provide depth or “bathy” information out to about 70 meters in clear water. In areas with highly turbid waters or breaking waves, however, the penetration depth is on the order of feet or less. For most shoreline extraction and coastal science applications, it is more important to have high-resolution, seamless data across the backshore, intertidal, and shallow nearshore zones. There are several combined topographic and bathymetric lidar systems that have been used extensively to map shoreline and nearshore areas. Combined topographic-bathymetric lidar data sets, such as those collected by the Joint Airborne Lidar Bathymetry Technical Center of Expertise (JALBTCX), provide the critical elevation data required to produce datum-based shorelines. However, the spacing for bathymetric points is fairly wide compared to the tight spacing of topographic points, and there are often large gaps in areas with significant wave action and high turbidity (Figure 6-3). It is thus often preferable to derive shorelines using topographic lidar that was collected at a low tide stage (e.g., mean lower low water (MLLW)). Collecting it at a low tide stage permits higher shorelines to be mapped using a single data set (e.g., mean sea level (MSL), mean high water (MHW)). However, in practice, it is extremely challenging to map MLLW from topo-only lidar data. This is because it is operationally challenging in many project sites to acquire the data at a sufficiently low tide stage that the MLLW line is exposed (i.e., above water) throughout the project site. Furthermore, the data in the vicinity of the MLLW shoreline are often sparse and noisy, due to low backscatter from wet surfaces when operating at near-infrared wavelengths. And finally, many algorithms are unstable near the edges of coverage in a data set. These challenges are best overcome with seamless topo-bathy data generated from systems configured for such environments, though using these systems does not guarantee good, continuous coverage across the land-water interface (Parrish, 2012). For the purposes of mapping a specific shoreline (e.g., MLLW, MHW), lidar-based procedures help eliminate some of the subjectivity and interpretation biases common with photogrammetric techniques (Espy, 2003; White and others, 2011). Once a base DEM has been created from the lidar points, different users can take the information and create a repeatable shoreline based on a specific elevation; this is the advantage of a complete digital coastal elevation model (Guenther, 2007). There are many ways to create a DEM from lidar data. In some cases the user has control over the types of routines or methods used to generate the DEM, and in other cases, the user is provided with a pre-made DEM. NOAA’s NGS published its lidar-based shoreline mapping workflow in White and others (2011). The workflow begins with lidar point data (which were collected using strict requirements) that are processed and ultimately converted to a gridded DEM (Figure 6-4). The use of NOAA’s VDatum tool is a critical component of this workflow, as it makes possible the transformations between tidal, orthometric, and ellipsoidal vertical datums. The creation of a DEM from lidar data can be performed using different interpolation routines—each with its own advantages and disadvantages—but the NGS methodology serves to generate a nationally consistent datum-based shoreline. Shoreline vectors are extracted from the DEM using a contour interpolation method. Figure 6-5 presents a shoreline representing MHW following the NGS workflow. As with DEM interpolation methods, there are different techniques for extracting contours. The NGS method uses linear interpolation to produce consistent and accurate shorelines. The same contouring process that was used to extract the MHW contour was also used to extract the MLLW contour (Figure 6-6). In both cases, the shorelines are displayed on top of aerial imagery that was collected around the predicted time of MHW and MLLW, respectively. In summary, this discussion on shoreline mapping focused on the NGS workflow for lidar-based shoreline mapping. As such, topo-bathy lidar points were gathered from NOAA’s Digital Coast and were transformed to tidal datums using the VDatum software. DEMs were then created for each tidal datum with a 1.5 meter grid resolution. Shoreline contours were created from the DEMs and presented in the graphics. Inundation, whether from sea-level rise or storm surge, is a common coastal application using elevation data. Lidar data provide the accuracy to both model and delineate the potential extent of flooding from different forms of inundation due to the high accuracy of the data and the ability to resolve small features that influence flow paths. In sea-level rise scenarios, the lidar data can be used to model topographic change—or morphologic change—that would be generated from a nearly uniform rise in water level and also to identify areas that are potentially susceptible to flooding. Coastal flooding from storms represents a rise in water level that is not uniform. Lidar data can be input in surface water models as well as map flooding extent. Storm surge is typically modeled using either the Sea, Lake, and Overland Surges from Hurricanes (SLOSH) model or the Advanced Circulation (ADCIRC) model. There are advantages and disadvantages to both models, and lidar data can be, and have been, incorporated into both models. The DEM grid that the ADCIRC model uses generally has a higher resolution than the SLOSH model, but ADCIRC cannot yet be run operationally for oncoming storms. Of course, neither SLOSH nor ADCIRC run at or near the resolution of even the coarsest lidar data. The output of the SLOSH model is an “envelope” of water that includes water depth (Figure 6-6). When these outputs are combined with a lidar-derived topographic surface (Figure 6-7), flood areas, extents, and depths are more precisely defined than those generated using the “best available” regional data (Figure 6-8) that, in this case, has a lower spatial resolution and also poorer accuracy.//

//**The brink is now---current flood and storm predictions rely on failing methods**//
//**GSO et al. 11** (The Graduation Student Organization at the University of Rhode Island and the National Science Foundation (AKA the country’s nerds), “Observation of Storm Surge, Wave, and Flooding”, Hurricane Science, 2010-2011, http://www.hurricanescience.org/society/impacts/stormsurge/)//SK
Observation data of storm surge, wave, and coastal flooding are needed for scientific understanding of the dynamics of surge, wave, and flooding, as well as for verification of numerical models. Observation of storm surge relies on sparsely located tidal gages installed by NOAA and other agencies along the coastline. The continuously observed data at a tidal gage gives the total water elevation relative to a vertical datum (e.g., NAVD88 or NGVD25). The observed water elevation consists of storm surge, tide, and wave setup. While the tide contained in the data can be removed by applying a 32-hour filter to the data or by subtracting the NOAA-predicted tide at that location to give the storm surge value (see an example below), it is difficult to isolate the wave setup from the remaining data signal. The only way to determine the wave setup is by numerical simulation of surge and wave during hurricanes, and comparison of simulated surge and wave with data. Observation of coastal flooding is based on the so-called High Water Marks (HWMs) in flooded area during a hurricane. These HWMs, which supposedly record the highest water level during a hurricane, are often difficult to interpret due to the following problems: 1) it is difficult to know if waves are included in the HWMs; 2) the vertical datum of the HWMs is often missing; 3) the HWMs are often observed at locations near a major river; and 4) the HWMs only provide peak water elevation, without any information on when the peak occurred.

**Floods are coming as a result of warming and will devastate agriculture and bring new diseases**
**NWF 08** (National Wildlife Federation, “Heavy Rainfall and Increased Flooding Risk: Global Warming’s Wake-Up Call for the Central United States”, 2008, http://www.nwf.org/~/media/PDFs/Global-Warming/Reports/HeavyRainfallandIncreasedFloodingWakeUpCallforCentralUS2.pdf?dmc=1&ts=20130127T2008456875)//SK//
//Global warming is bringing more heavy rainfall to the Central United States. In the upper Midwest, the frequency of the most intense rainfall events has increased by 20 percent since the late 1960s.1 The number of days each year with precipitation greater than 4 inches has increased by 50 percent over the last century.2 These increases are correlated with a corresponding increase in days with heavy streamflow in the medium and large river basins of the Eastern United States.3 Major flooding—like the Great Floods of 1993 and 2008—requires prolonged periods of higher-thannormal precipitation. Across North America, we are having more 90-day intervals with precipitation totals in the top 5 percent of the historical average. The last 25 years have seen 20 percent more of these episodes than any other 25-year window over the 20th century.4 As the climate continues to warm, the atmosphere will be able to hold more water. With more moisture in the air, the trend towards increasingly intense precipitation events will continue. In the Midwest, big storms that historically would only be seen once every 20 years are projected to happen as much as every 4 to 6 years by the end of the 21st century.5 Increasing Frequency of Heavy Rainfall Events Floods and severe storms are among the most costly kind of weather and climate disaster in the United States, together costing the country more than $115 billion from 1960-2005 in direct damages.6 The Midwest is hit disproportionally more, suffering about a quarter of these losses.7 In the Central United States, severe weather and flooding can be especially devastating for crops, both during the storm and because excessively wet soil can create anoxic conditions, foster the spread of diseases and insects, and make it difficult to operate farm machinery needed to plant or harvest. One study estimates that flood-related losses to U.S. crops could double by 2030 due to increased frequency of excess soil moisture. 8 Large floods that overwhelm water treatment facilities can cause outbreaks of waterborne diseases. Such was the case in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in 1993, when there were 403,000 cases of intestinal illness, resulting in 54 deaths, after a period of heavy rainfall. In fact, more than half of waterborne diseases reported nationwide between 1948 and 1994 were preceded by periods of heavy rainfall.//

//**Sustainable agriculture prevents extinction**//
//**Lugar 02** (Richard G., US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee., “Plant Power”, http://www.ourplanet.com/imgversn/143/lugar.html)//SK
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East, burgeoning nuclear threats and other crises, it is easy to lose sight of the long-range challenges. But we do so at our peril. One of the most daunting of them is meeting the world’s need for food and energy in this century. At stake is not only preventing starvation and saving the environment, but also world peace and security. History tells us that states may go to war over access to resources, and that poverty and famine have often bred fanaticism and terrorism. Working to feed the world will minimize factors that contribute to global instability and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. With the world population expected to grow from 6 billion people today to 9 billion by mid-century, the demand for affordable food will increase well beyond current international production levels. People in rapidly developing nations will have the means greatly to improve their standard of living and caloric intake. Inevitably, that means eating more meat. This will raise demand for feed grain at the same time that the growing world population will need vastly more basic food to eat. Complicating a solution to this problem is a dynamic that must be better understood in the West: developing countries often use limited arable land to expand cities to house their growing populations. As good land disappears, people destroy timber resources and even rainforests as they try to create more arable land to feed themselves. The long-term environmental consequences could be disastrous for the entire globe. To meet the expected demand for food over the next 50 years, we in the United States will have to grow roughly three times more food on the land we have. That’s a tall order. My farm in Marion County, Indiana, for example, yields on average 8.3 to 8.6 tonnes of corn per hectare – typical for a farm in central Indiana. To triple our production by 2050, we will have to produce an annual average of 25 tonnes per hectare. Can we possibly boost output that much? Well, it’s been done before. Advances in the use of fertilizer and water, improved machinery and better tilling techniques combined to generate a threefold increase in yields since 1935 – on our farm back then, my dad produced 2.8 to 3 tonnes per hectare. Much US agriculture has seen similar increases. But of course there is no guarantee that we can achieve those results again. Given the urgency of expanding food production to meet world demand, we must invest much more in scientific research and target that money toward projects that promise to have significant national and global impact. For the United States, that will mean a major shift in the way we conduct and fund agricultural science. Fundamental research will generate the innovations that will be necessary to feed the world. The United States can take a leading position in a productivity revolution. And our success at increasing food production may play a decisive humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.

**Disease leads to extinction.**
**Yu** 0**9** (Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, 5-22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate, 6-23-11)
A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 2 is the Arctic__**</span></span>
**Scenario 1 is Russian Cooperation**

**It’s normal means**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK//
//Meanwhile, the Russian Federation continues to increase throughput along the NSR.As the Barents Observer reported in late January 2012, “This year’s season on the NSR was special in many ways. Not only was the route accessible about one month longer than usual, but it also had the highest number ever of vessels in transit from Murmansk to another country”.[6] In a more recent Barents Observer article, Gazprom and Sovcomflot´s executives suggested “the relevance of LNG shipping along the NSRto the Asian-Pacific region [is] growing quickly”.[7] Clearly then, the Russian Federation expects to make the NSR a viable option between northern Pacific ports and northern Atlantic ports. There are dissenters who would suggest Arctic shipping will not be as safe and profitable as Russian Federation leaders would suggest. In a recent Insurance Journal article entitled, “Arctic Ice Melt Lifts Hopes for Russian Maritime Trade”, authors Albina Kovalyova & Alissa de Carbonnel opined, “industry analysts and mariners say ice floes, narrow straits, shallow waters, poor infrastructure and stormy winters continue to loom as obstacles to safe and profitable shipping through the polar shortcut”.[8] Notwithstanding, Russia continues to demonstrate that the NSR is a viable shipping route. Two years ago the Russian Federation announced it would send five vessels of different classes through the NSR as a proof of principle, meeting the mark. They then publicly stated they would increase that number fivefold. This year reportedly 34 vessels transited the NSR. If increases were to continue at current calculations, within five years, however unlikely, transits would exceed over one hundred thousand. Regardless of how many vessels actually transit the route in coming years, the Russian Federation’s fulfillment of their stated goals should lead observers, and especially policy makers, to believe the NSR will become a major Sea Line of Communication in the not too distant future. Returning to the topic at hand, there are essentially two types of VTSs, manned and unmanned. The Vardø VTS is manned due to the heavy traffic that transits along Norway’s West coast and the need to safeguard critical state enterprises. Whereas, the few number of ships currently transiting the Bering Strait today may make it feasible to have an unmanned VTS until vessel traffic warrants an upgrade. An unmanned system would likely be monitored remotely both from Russia and the United States, using sensors to track and control Bering Strait traffic. Additionally, a traffic separation plan must be submitted and approved by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). For example, should north bound traffic transit east of Little Diomede Island and southbound traffic transit west of Big Diomede? These are details that must be negotiated between the United States and the Russian Federation. Clearly gas and oil traffic are expected to increase in the near-term, evidenced by Shell’s CEO Peter Voser’s 31 January Fox Business interview. "For us the focus is in Alaska and to some extent in Greenland, although in the coming years there may also be opportunities in Russia," stated Voser.[9] Shell is not the only company expecting to profit from Arctic oil and gas. Norway’s Statoil, Total, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips are all set to exploit the reported 90 billion barrels of oil, up to 50 trillion cubic meters of natural gas and 44 billion barrels of natural gas liquids that the 2008 US Geological Survey suggests are in the Arctic. Therefore, it is essential to mitigate the accompanying risk of increased Bering Strait vessel traffic by resourcing a VTS.//

//**That solves relations and Arctic security issues**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span> || RT)//
//Internationally, the resulting level of cooperation ensuing from bilateral negotiations between the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US State Department could serve to further reset the US-Russian relations. Potentially, the Russian Duma may be encouraged to ratify the US-Russia Maritime Boundary. Environmentalists may be less concerned about the risk of oil and gas spills. The US Coast Guard and the Russian Federation Border Guard could better enforce international and national laws. Insurance companies like Lloyd’s of London who hold maritime liabilities may be more inclined to reduce shipping companies rates, saving companies who use the NSR the money that can then be reinvested. Alternately, as this international waterway opens to international trade the threats to US and Russian security will increase. Having a national presence at the gateway to the Arctic could mitigate potential criminal or hostile acts and deter illicit activity. Finally, having an International Maritime Organization certified Bering Strait VTS fulfills the pledge made by Arctic nations to enhance Arctic marine safety, to protect the marine environment and expand Arctic marine infrastructure.//

//**Arctic issues are the most probable and biggest 21st century threat- US action towards multilateralism is necessary**//
//**Borgerson 08-** the visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and an adjunct senior research scholar at Columbia University (Scott G., 2008, “Arctic Meltdown”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63222/scott-g-borgerson/arctic-meltdown?page=show</span> || RT)//
//Despite the melting icecap's potential to transform global shipping and energy markets, Arctic issues are largely ignored at senior levels in the U.S. State Department and the U.S. National Security Council. The most recent executive statement on the Arctic dates to 1994 and does not mention the retreating ice. But the Arctic's strategic location and immense resource wealth make it an important national interest. Although the melting Arctic holds great promise, it also poses grave dangers. The combination of new shipping routes, trillions of dollars in possible oil and gas resources, and a poorly defined picture of state ownership makes for a toxic brew. The situation is especially dangerous because there are currently no overarching political or legal structures that can provide for the orderly development of the region or mediate political disagreements over Arctic resources or sea-lanes. The Arctic has always been frozen; as ice turns to water, it is not clear which rules should apply. The rapid melt is also rekindling numerous interstate rivalries and attracting energy-hungry newcomers, such as China, to the region. The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories, such as the desolate but resource-rich Spratly Islands, where multiple states claim sovereignty but no clear picture of ownership exists. There are few legal frameworks that offer guidance. The Arctic Council does exist to address environmental issues, but it has remained silent on the most pressing challenges facing the region because the United States purposefully emasculated it at birth, in 1996, by prohibiting it from addressing security concerns. Many observers argue that UNCLOS is the correct tool to manage the thawing Arctic. The convention provides mechanisms for states to settle boundary disputes and submit claims for additional resources beyond their exclusive economic zones. Furthermore, UNCLOS sets aside the resources in the high seas as the common heritage of humankind, it allows states bordering ice-covered waters to enforce more stringent environmental regulations, and it defines which seaways are the sovereign possessions of states and which international passages are open to unfettered navigation. However, UNCLOS cannot be seamlessly applied to the Arctic. The region's unique geographic circumstances do not allow for a neat application of this legal framework. The Arctic is home to a number of vexing problems that, taken in their entirety, make it a special case. These unresolved challenges include carving up the world's longest uncharted and most geologically complex continental shelf among five states with competing claims, resolving differences between Canada and the rest of the world over how to legally define the Northwest Passage, demarcating maritime borders between the United States and Canada in the Beaufort Sea and between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea, and regulating vessels shielded behind flags of convenience (which obscure the true origin and ownership of the vessels) as they travel across numerous national jurisdictions. Finally, increased oil and gas exploration and the trans-Arctic shipping that comes with it will pose serious environmental risks. Oil tankers present a particularly grave environmental threat, as illustrated by three recent oil spills in the much safer waters of the San Francisco Bay, the Black Sea, and the Yellow Sea. There are also a handful of unresolved issues at play in the Arctic that are not covered under UNCLOS. Between 1958 and 1992, Russia dumped 18 nuclear reactors into the Arctic Ocean, several of them still fully loaded with nuclear fuel. This hazard still needs to be cleaned up. Furthermore, the Arctic region is home to one million indigenous people, who deserve to have a say in the region's future, especially as regards their professed right to continue hunting bowhead whales, their safety alongside what will become bustling shipping lanes, and their rightful share of the economic benefits that Arctic development will bring. With the prospect of newfound energy wealth, there is also growing talk of Greenland petitioning Denmark for political independence. Finally, there has been an explosion in polar tourism, often involving ships unsuited for navigation in the region. Last year, 140 cruise ships carried 4,000 intrepid travelers for holidays off Greenland's icy coast, a dangerous journey in largely uncharted waters. Although it is tempting to look to the past for solutions to the Arctic conundrum, no perfect analogy exists. The 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which froze all territorial claims and set aside the continent for scientific research, provides some lessons, but it concerns a continent rather than an ocean. Moreover, Antarctica is far removed from major trade routes, and negotiations unfolded in the entirely different context of the Cold War. As a body of water that links several large economies, the Mediterranean Sea is somewhat similar to the Arctic Ocean, but its littoral states have always had clearer historical claims, and it has never been covered with ice, at least not in human history. There is simply no comparable historical example of a saltwater space with such ambiguous ownership, such a dramatically mutating seascape, and such extraordinary economic promise. The region's remarkable untapped resource wealth and unrealized potential to become a fast lane between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans makes it a key emerging pressure point in international affairs. At this critical juncture, decisions about how to manage this rapidly changing region will likely be made within a diplomatic and legal vacuum unless the United States steps forward to lead the international community toward a multilateral solution.//

//**Arctic conflict has a low threshold and big escalation**//
//**Staples 09**- Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)//
//The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years. In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”//








//**Scenario 2 is Readiness**//

//**Current arctic navigational operations fail and increase arctic terrorism and piracy.**//
//**Conley 12** (Heather, Heather Conley serves as director and senior fellow of the Europe Program at CSIS. Prior to joining CSIS, Ms. Conley served as senior adviser to the Center for European Policy Analysis, an independent, nonpartisan public policy research institute dedicated to the study of Central Europe. From 2005–2008, Ms. Conley served as the executive director, Office of the Chairman of the Board of the American National Red Cross, where she focused her efforts on developing the first comprehensive reform to the governance structure of the American Red Cross Board since 1947, incorporating best governance practices for nonprofit and for-profit sectors., “Security Challenges and Opportunities in a Changing Arctic Environment”, This article has been excerpted from the CSIS Europe Program report entitled “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective”. For the complete report, please visit: <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic|__http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic__]]</span>, April 26, 2012, http://www.e-ir.info/2012/04/26/security-challenges-and-opportunities-in-a-changing-arctic-environment/)//SK
The Arctic region is experiencing rapid and extraordinary environmental changes. As sea ice extent is dramatically reduced, fish stocks migrate further north and human activity increases, these changes are likely to alter the dynamics of regional commercial, human, and state interaction. For the United States, the Arctic will take on greater economic importance in the future and will require a comprehensive security strategy that includes increased regional readiness and border security, as well as an enhancement of strategic capabilities. The security challenges in the Arctic are vast, including search and rescue, environmental remediation, piracy, terrorism, natural and man-made disaster response, and border protection. There is presently a near absence of satellite coverage, limited hydrographic mapping, difficulties of ice forecasting, and mobility constraints of ice-strengthened equipment. A coherent surveillance of ice thickness does not currently exist, a critical factor when operating tankers, oil platforms, and cruise ships in the Arctic. This problem is exacerbated by the vacillation of sea ice, which makes safe navigation of the harsh territory more difficult. In addition, magnetic and solar phenomena limit communications equipment above 70 degrees north. The Second World War and the Cold War were the defining historical frameworks for U.S. engagement in the Arctic. During World War II, the United States needed to create supply routes by air and by sea to resupply the Soviet front through the port of Murmansk and to fend off any possible Japanese invasion of Alaska. This justified the construction of a portion of the Alaskan highway system. At the height of the Cold War, the proximity of U.S. Arctic territory to the Soviet Union was the impetus for creating a continental defense and deterrence system, the Distant Early Warning, or DEW, Line. Much of the U.S. security infrastructure that remains in the region was constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. As the Cold War’s existential threat has faded in recent decades, U.S. Arctic capabilities have also been in decline. U.S. Arctic territory occupies only a small portion of the Arctic region as a whole and is far from the political and economic centers of the country. Although Alaska serves the natural resource needs and military interests of the United States, it has not been a major focus of U.S. policy. With the exceptions of the global missile defense architecture based at Fort Greeley and the U.S. government’s ongoing scientific research work, the U.S. security approach toward the Arctic has largely been to outsource requirements to foreign-flagged commercial vessels or to borrow ice-strengthened vessels from Canada, Russia, or Sweden. For many senior U.S. homeland security officials, the concept of border security relates to overall U.S. counterterrorism efforts, its southern border with Mexico, and drug and human interdiction – the most northern borders of the United States receive far less attention. As the U.S. defense and homeland security budgets are increasingly constrained, increased spending for regions that do not pose an immediate threat seems unlikely. Unable to make difficult and future budget decisions, Washington reverts to a near-constant assessment process of U.S. infrastructure and security needs in the Arctic (such as the upcoming FY2014 Navy Arctic Capabilities Based Assessment), suggesting that an endless assessment process is equivalent to taking decisions on a future course of action. In stark contrast, other Arctic coastal nations have declared the Arctic a main strategic area of interest and have placed budgetary resources behind their lofty development plans. Russia, for example, has clearly made the Arctic a priority in documents such as the National Security Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2020 and has backed these goals with investment in icebreakers, regional coordination centers and other border enhancements. Russia has also created incentives to encourage oil and gas development in its Arctic territories. By the end of 2011, Russia had plans to establish a brigade especially equipped and prepared for military warfare in Arctic conditions. The 200 motorized infantry brigade in Pechenga, some 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the Russian-Norwegian border, is the first such unit. In addition, the Russian military is considering the deployment of paratroopers from the Arctic Spetsnaz brigade. The United States is the only Arctic coastal state that does not currently have any large-scale economic development plan for the region and has a woeful lack of Arctic military capabilities. The most definitive declaration of U.S. policy toward the Arctic, the National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-66) on Arctic Region Policy, articulates the most pressing U.S. security interests in the region: missile defense and early-warning systems ; deployment of sea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight; and preventing terrorist attacks and mitigating criminal or hostile acts that could increase U.S. vulnerability to terrorism in the Arctic region. NSPD-66 also addresses governance, scientific cooperation, environmental issues, boundaries and continental shelf disputes, and economic developments.

**Arctic terrorism leads to nuclear and biological warfare**
**Mychajlyszyn 08** (Natalie, International Affairs, Trade and Finance Division, “The Arctic: Canadian Security and Defence”, 24 October 2008, http://www.parl.gc.ca/Content/LOP/ResearchPublications/prb0813-e.htm#illegalaccess)//SK//
//Increased illegal access and illegal activities, including terrorism As the Arctic generally becomes more accessible because of the warming climate, some analysts predict the emergence of new security threats.(6) One such risk is that of an increase in illegal migration and trafficking in persons to North America through the Arctic. There are also fears of the North being used as a thoroughfare for drug trafficking as well as a destination for illegal narcotics. In the post-September 11 era, fears have been raised concerning the increased vulnerability of the Arctic as a passage for terrorists, whether for illegal entry into North America or for the transport of illegal weapons, including biological and chemical devices. To such a list of activities, generally perpetrated by organized crime groups, can be added the rise of other types of organized crime, such as those involving industries engaged in the extraction of lucrative resources, such as diamonds and copper.//









//**That’s war**//
//**Rhodes 09** (Richard Rhodes, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award., “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, 12-14-09, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)//SK
The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen. Richard Lugar surveyed PDF them in 2005. This group of 85 experts judged that the possibility of a WMD attack against a city or other target somewhere in the world is real and increasing over time. The median estimate of the risk of a nuclear attack somewhere in the world by 2010 was 10 percent. The risk of an attack by 2015 doubled to 20 percent median. There was strong, though not universal, agreement that a nuclear attack is more likely to be carried out by a terrorist organization than by a government. The group was split 45 to 55 percent on whether terrorists were more likely to obtain an intact working nuclear weapon or manufacture one after obtaining weapon-grade nuclear material. “The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is not just a security problem,” Lugar wrote in the report’s introduction. “It is the economic dilemma and the moral challenge of the current age. On September 11, 2001, the world witnessed the destructive potential of international terrorism. But the September 11 attacks do not come close to approximating the destruction that would be unleashed by a nuclear weapon. Weapons of mass destruction have made it possible for a small nation, or even a sub-national group, to kill as many innocent people in a day as national armies killed in months of fighting during World War II. “The bottom line is this,” Lugar concluded: “For the foreseeable future, the United States and other nations will face an existential threat from the intersection of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.” It’s paradoxical that a diminished threat of a superpower nuclear exchange should somehow have resulted in a world where the danger of at least a single nuclear explosion in a major city has increased (and that city is as likely, or likelier, to be Moscow as it is to be Washington or New York). We tend to think that a terrorist nuclear attack would lead us to drive for the elimination of nuclear weapons. I think the opposite case is at least equally likely: A terrorist nuclear attack would almost certainly be followed by a retaliatory nuclear strike on whatever country we believed to be sheltering the perpetrators. That response would surely initiate a new round of nuclear armament and rearmament in the name of deterrence, however illogical. Think of how much 9/11 frightened us; think of how desperate our leaders were to prevent any further such attacks; think of the fact that we invaded and occupied a country, Iraq, that had nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.

**New infrastructure and navigational operations solve readiness.**
**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK//
//In July 2011, the Coast Guard provided to Congress a study on the Coast Guard’s missions and capabilities for operations in high-latitude (i.e., polar) areas. The study, commonly known as the High Latitude Study, is dated July 2010 on its cover. The High Latitude Study concluded the following: [The study] concludes that future [Coast Guard] capability and capacity gaps will significantly impact four [Coast Guard] mission areas in the Arctic: Defense Readiness, Ice Operations, Marine Environmental Protection, and Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security. These mission areas address the protection of important national interests in a geographic area where other nations are actively pursuing their own national goals. U.S. national policy and laws define the requirements to assert the nation’s jurisdiction over its territory and interests; to ensure the security of its people and critical infrastructure; to participate fully in the collection of scientific knowledge; to support commercial enterprises with public utility; and to ensure that the Arctic environment is not degraded by increased human activity. The Coast Guard’s ability to support Defense Readiness mission requirements in the Arctic is closely linked to DoD responsibilities. The Coast Guard presently possesses the only surface vessels capable of operating in ice-covered and ice-diminished waters. The Coast Guard supports (1) DoD missions such as the resupply of Thule Air Base in Greenland and logistics support (backup) for McMurdo Station in Antarctica and (2) Department of State (DoS) directed Freedom of Navigation Operations. These unique Coast Guard capabilities have been noted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Navy’s Task Force Climate Change, and the recently issued Naval Operations Concept 2010. The common and dominant contributor to these significant mission impacts is the gap in polar icebreaking capability....223 Other capability gaps contributing to the impact on Coast Guard ability to carry out its missions in the Arctic include: • Communications System Capability – Continuous coverage along Alaska’s West Coast, the Bering Strait, and throughout the North Slope is required for exchanging voice and data communications with Coast Guard units and other government and commercial platforms offshore. • Forward Operating Locations - No suitable facilities currently exist on the North Slope or near the Bering Strait with facilities sufficient to support extended aircraft servicing and maintenance. Aircraft must travel long distances and expend significant time transiting to and from adequate facilities. This gap reduces on-scene presence and capability to support sustained operations in the region. • Environmental response in ice-covered waters - The technology and procedures for assessment and mitigation measures for oil spills in ice-covered waters are not fully developed or tested. Capability gaps in the Arctic region have moderate impacts on [the Coast Guard’s] Aids to Navigation (AtoN), Search and Rescue (SAR), and Other Law Enforcement (OLE) missions. Both AtoN and SAR involve the safety of mariners and will gain more importance not only as commerce and tourism cause an increase in maritime traffic, but as U.S. citizens in northern Alaska face more unpredictable conditions. Performance of OLE will be increasingly necessary to ensure the integrity of U.S. living marine resources from outside pressures.... In addition to the assessment of polar icebreaking needs, the Arctic mission analysis examined a set of theoretical mixes (force packages) of Coast Guard assets consisting of icebreakers, their embarked helicopters, and deployment alternatives using aviation forward operating locations in Arctic Alaska.... All [six] of the force mixes [considered in the study] add assets to the existing Coast Guard Alaska Patrol consisting of (1) a high-endurance cutter (not an icebreaker) deployed in the Bering Sea carrying a short range recovery helicopter, and (2) medium range recovery helicopters located at Kodiak in the Gulf of Alaska, and seasonally deployed to locations in Cold Bay and St. Paul Island.... These force packages and associated risk assessment provide a framework for acquisition planning as the Coast Guard implements a strategy for closing the capability gaps. By first recapitalizing the aging icebreakers, the Coast Guard provides a foundation for buildout of these force mixes. In addition to the cost of the icebreakers, the force packages require investment in forward operating locations and in medium range helicopters. The mission analysis reports developed rough order-of-magnitude cost estimates for forward operating locations at approximately $36M [million] each and for helicopters at $9M each.... The analysis shows that the current Coast Guard deployment posture is not capable of effective response in northern Alaska and that response may be improved through a mix of deployed cutters, aircraft, and supporting infrastructure including forward operating locations and communications/navigation systems.224//




//**Scenario 3 is Search and Rescue**//

//**Status quo is ruining SAR because of a lack of infrastructure- Aff solves**//
//**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK
The possibility of increased sea and air traffic through Arctic waters has increased concerns regarding Arctic-area search and rescue capabilities. Given the location of current U.S. Coast Guard operating bases, it could take Coast Guard aircraft several hours, and Coast Guard cutters days or even weeks, to reach a ship or a downed aircraft in distress in Arctic waters. In addition, the harsh climate complicates search and rescue operations in the region. Particular concern has been expressed about cruise ships that may experience problems and need assistance; there have already been incidents of this kind in recent years in waters off Antarctica. A May 7, 2011, press report stated: U.S. and Canadian military commanders say they are examining their rescue capabilities in the Arctic as a shrinking ice cap brought about by climate change opens up rich oil and gas reserves and draws more commercial traffic to the top of the globe.... [U.S. Admiral James Winnefeld, commander of the U.S. Northern Command and the North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD] and NORAD’S deputy commander, Canadian Forces Lt. Gen. Marcel Duval, said more ships in the Arctic Ocean - and more jetliners crossing Arctic skies - could mean more emergencies. “More ships, more chances of accidents,” Duval said in a separate interview in his office at NORAD headquarters at Peterson. Last summer, the Canadian Coast Guard rescued 197 people from the cruise ship Clipper Adventurer, which ran aground inside the Arctic Circle.... Sea traffic is still light, with only about 25 ships a year currently crossing the maritime Arctic boundary between Alaska and the Yukon. But that number is increasing by 10 to 15 percent a year, according to NORAD statistics. Civilian air traffic over the Arctic is booming. U.S. and Canadian aviation agencies report more than 9,600 civilian flights across the North Pole in 2010, up nearly 21 percent from 2008.154 One option for mitigating the risks associated with cruise ship operations in the Arctic would be to require the vessels to sail in pairs, so that if one ship experiences a problem, the other one could quickly come to its aid. Increasing U.S. Coast Guard search and rescue capabilities for the Arctic could require one or more of the following: enhancing or creating new Coast Guard operating bases in the region; procuring additional Arctic-capable aircraft, cutters, and rescue boats for the Coast Guard; and adding systems to improve Arctic maritime communications, navigation, and domain awareness.155 It may also entail enhanced forms of cooperation with navies and coast guards of other Arctic countries.

**Effective Arctic SAR allows the deployment of V-22 Ospreys**
**Skinner 11** (Tony, former manager of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, “USN pushes Osprey for "extreme" Arctic SAR”, Current Issue - Fall 2011, http://www.boeing.com/ospreynews/2011/issue_01/versatile_s40_p2.html)//SK//
//The U.S. Navy team behind the V-22 Osprey has made an ardent case for the advantages of fielding the tiltrotor in the search and rescue (SAR) role. In a newly released report, the navy’s V-22 Joint Program Office (PMA-275) argues that to fully appreciate the benefits the Osprey could bring to SAR operations, a ‘fresh look’ at the aircraft’s capabilities is required. “SAR professionals can benefit from a re-evaluation of all available equipment in support of SAR tenets. Any re-evaluation should include addressing the limitations of legacy VTOL technology, and should include analyses of tiltrotor aircraft and how to exploit this game-changing aircraft,” the report stated. It said the tiltrotor would resolve current mid-mission hover limitations for US and international SAR agencies, providing an extended-range, high-speed capability without losing the advantages of a vertical medium lift platform. Casting its argument in the context of a growing number of cruise ships exploring the Arctic Ocean and the potential for disaster therein, PMA-275 contended that there is a “moral obligation to provide victims with the most professionally trained and capable resources possible.” Under the US National Search and Rescue Plan (NSP), responsibility for maritime and aeronautical SAR operations falls to the US Coast Guard (USCG), while the USAF covers mainland aeronautical SAR and US Pacific Command holds responsibility for Alaska. Current long- and medium-range search platforms include fixed-wing Lockheed Martin C-130 variants (8,300km range) with both the USCG and USAF, in addition to the coast guard’s Dassault HU-25 (3,300km) and CASA HC-144 (5,000km) aircraft. However, the report maintains that the shorter-range Eurocopter HH-65 (675km) and medium-range Sikorsky HH-60 (830km) ‘lack the high speed, long range and capacity as compared to the V-22’ (4,900km ferry range with aerial refuelling). PMA-275 also highlighted the V-22’s other “game-changing factors”, which include increased speed to recovery (485km/h in sustained cruise to 575km/h maximum), midmission hover, normal altitude (with passengers) up to 13,000ft and its multirole nature. “USCG and USAF rescue coordination centres (RCC) can enhance the V-22’s long-range capabilities through aerial refuelling and/or internal tanks,” the report stated. “The RCC could use the V-22 cargo capacity of 20,000lbs and fixed-wing altitude capability in support of operations to transport personnel, recover a larger number of survivors when needed and deliver supplies at a faster rate than legacy rotorcraft.” With the Arctic increasingly opening up to commercial shipping, the USN released its Arctic roadmap in October 2009, which called for analyses and assessments of the requirements of the SAR mission in the region. PMA-275 believes that any analysis should look at the ability of tiltrotor technology to address emergencies in such an extreme maritime environment. “The Arctic ice retreat emphasises the need to ensure vertical-lift aircraft availability for securing Arctic border areas, conducting SAR operations, maintaining US maritime and homeland security and protecting commerce,” the report said, adding that the V-22 can operate in temperatures as low as -54°C. According to PMA-275, multiple fixed- and rotarywing organisations are currently looking at applications for the Osprey. A spokesman confirmed that, in response to inquiries from both international and US domestic agencies, recommendations had been made on how the V-22 could be employed as a SAR platform. Perhaps surprisingly, the report suggested that the V-22’s ‘viability as a civil and military platform is growing as interested countries face fiscal restraints and increasing mission demands, and struggle with finding the right technology to support those demands’. Hitting back at criticism of the cost of the aircraft, PMA-275 claimed that, due to the Osprey’s blending of turboprop and helicopter operations, the tiltrotor was more operationally and cost-effective than a mix of platforms and had the potential to further lower infrastructure footprint costs. This latest report will come as welcome ammunition for Bell-Boeing’s sales team, members of which have expressed frustration that the requirements for new SAR aircraft are still largely written with the conventional helicopter in mind. For example, the USAF’s Personnel Recovery Recapitalization Program (HH-60 Recap) is calling for a platform capable of sustaining 130kts true air speed and a straightline unrefuelled combat mission radius of 220nm.//






//**SAR platforms increase soft-power**//
//**Seip ’09-** Commander, 12th Air Force (Lt. Gen. Norman R., 2009, “Soft Power and the US Airforce”, __<span style="color: #000000;">[[http://blog.usni.org/2009/02/17/soft-power-and-the-us-air-force|__http://blog.usni.org/2009/02/17/soft-power-and-the-us-air-force__]]</span>__ || RT)//
//Q: What is the U.S. Air Force’s definition of soft power? Seip: Traditionally, Soft Power has been defined as the courses of action one nation uses (political measures, foreign policy, exportation of cultural values, etc) to influence or persuade another party to cooperate or adopt similar values. But I believe this is too narrow a definition, and that “influence” should never be part of the Soft Power equation. As I stated in Small Wars Journal, Air Forces Southern is zeroed in on Soft Power because of our area of focus; Central, South America and the Caribbean. Our objective is to promote security, enhance stability and enable partnerships across the Americas. Countering narcoterrorism, promoting human rights and providing humanitarian assistance to partner nations are some examples of Soft Power in action. Q: What are some of the resources the U.S. Air Force has that can provide soft power? Seip: Obviously the first resource people think of when the Air Force is involved is airpower….be it airlift, search and rescue or combat forces, the Air Force has a full array of airpower options to assist in Soft Power operations, but our most important resource is our Airmen….Officer, Enlisted, Active, Guard, Reserve and Civilians that make up our Total Force Team. I like to say that we build, enhance and strengthen partnerships with partner nation Air Forces ‘one Airman at a time.’ Although the notion is to first think of military hardware in relation to what the Air Force brings to the table, I prefer to think of Airmen as the key enabler in Soft Power operations. Airmen build bridges, both figuratively and literally, and are the most important part of making a Soft Power initiative successful. At any given time, more than 1,000 US Airmen are deployed in the AFSOUTH area of focus, working alongside other military members and in local communities to assist partner nations during dozens of training, outreach and infrastructure operations. Airmen provide expertise, innovation, and a high degree of professionalism to every operation they’re involved. Whether it’s flying, engineering, maintenance, environmental, medical, rescue, chaplains, scientists or communicators, Airmen have a wealth of knowledge to share with partner nations. The personal relationships built between military members during Soft Power operations are integral to future military cooperation. When we send a team to assist a partner nation, it’s the spirit of the American Airman that I want people to remember.//

//**No risk of a turn---hardpower kills cooperation and only softpower solves**//
//**Crossley 11/18** (Alexander, Politics & Parliamentary Studies student at the University of Leeds, quoting China Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying, “China: America’s Asian pivot misguided and dangerous; trust and economic cooperation better”, China Daily Mail, November 18, 2012, http://chinadailymail.com/2012/11/18/china-americas-asian-pivot-misguided-and-dangerous-trust-and-economic-cooperation-with-better/)//SK
Today the freshly re-elected President Obama is heading for Asia, taking in Cambodia, Burma and Thailand. His trip, the first since he won the election, is clearly aimed to secure friends in a region that is increasingly important. Sadly the core US strategy of military presence hasn’t changed, and for as long as America believes it can guide China’s development through brute force, tensions will only escalate. One of the centrepieces of the Obama administration has been its military pivot towards Asia, moving away from middle-east engagements and towards ensuring China doesn’t dominate the region. The policy epitomises American thinking that most global problems can be solved through military presence, but sadly they’ve ignored the benefits of diplomacy and humanitarian assistance. Concentrating on military strength will only increase the pressure between the USA and China, souring international relations and ruining the possibilities for meaningful alliances to develop. The US has been increasing regional pressure, moving military assets into the region (such as an increased marine presence in Darwin Australia) and pressing its allies to allow the stationing of military bases in their territory (Thailand). However, this emphasis on military presence is doing more to alienate Asian nations than ensure their support. Thailand is gradually standing up to American pressure and beginning to look towards Chinese friendship, which it sees as more mutually beneficial. Other countries will be increasingly enticed to do the same as China’s pull becomes stronger. China is taking a different tack to its international relations, one virtually guaranteed to have more long-lasting success. I’ve written elsewhere about China’s relatively slow military development, and how Chinese military spending won’t reach US levels until a full 10 years (2035) after it becomes the world’s biggest economy. This fact demonstrates that whilst China might occasionally engage in military posturing with other major regional players, it is not aggressively pursuing military capabilities. Instead China is concentrating on building bilateral and regional ties. The Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying has said that: “While developing ourselves, we must bring benefits to our neighbours and deepen the bond of mutual benefit with them. Only in this way would we be able to preserve peace and stability in the region and move forward with our neighbours toward shared prosperity and a common destiny.” By getting closer to its regional neighbours and making sure its own development helps other Asian nations, China is undermining outdated American efforts. For years China has been investing in regional ties by offering loans, aid ($2.1bn since ’92) and technical assistance to countries such as Cambodia. Over the last 6 years, more than $8bn has been invested in Cambodia by China, paling $900million invested by American firms. This is the kind of assistance the USA is starting to slowly realise it needs provide, but it no longer has the free-flowing finances that once gave America the ability to project its ambitions around the globe. This is not to say that the US is impotent on the world stage, but it needs to look past outdated military solutions. American human rights and democratic procedure are envied around the world, and can certainly provide a template for reform in countries such as Burma, one of the stops on Obama’s tour. I am by no means saying American democracy is perfect; issues surrounding lobbying and money in politics are well-known. However, the fundamental entrenchment of civil liberties is highly attractive to many who advocate the type of virtues espoused by Burma’s opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi. China may be the primary economic partner for Japan, Australia and other Asian players, but for security they turn to America and will continue to do so until China proves it can be trusted. It will take both nations to cool international relations and prevent a catastrophic build-up of tension. America must get past its own ego and realise China is not inherently evil; America cannot lead the world forever. It may have a different political history, but China’s economics are increasingly pro-market and its human rights are developing at a pace that puts historic Western liberal development to shame. Combatting corruption, working with the US on trans-Pacific free trade agreements and accelerating the process of democratisation that has begun in rural areas will all encourage faith in China’s ability to assume the top spot at the global table.






**Specifically, hardpower kill US-EU relations, softpower increases relations**
**Nye 04** (Joseph, former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Soft Power, The Means to Success in World Politics,”)
There is increasing evidence that the policies and tone of the new unilateralists were directly responsible for the decline of America s attractiveness abroad. A survey conducted a month before September II, 2001, found that Western Europeans already described the Bush administration’s approach to foreign policy as unilateralist. Nearly two years later, the Iraq War hardened these perceptions: pluralities of respondents said that American foreign policy had a negative effect on their views of the United States.1O8 In a dramatic turnabout from the Cold War strong majorities in Europe now see U.S. unilateralism as an important international threat to Europe in the next ten years. Nearly nine in ten French and Germans share this point of view, perceiving the threat of U.S. unilateralism as comparable to the threats represented by North Koreas or Iran’s developing weapons of mass destruction. Even among the Iraq coalition allies, Britain and Poland, two-thirds of these countries’ populations agree that U.S. unilateralism is an important threat.109

**Cooperation accesses every global impact—especially the Balkans**
**Stivachtis 10**<span style="color: #000000;">– Director of International Studies Program @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute [Dr. Yannis. A. Stivachtis (Professor of Poli Sci @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute & Ph.D. in Politics & International Relations from Lancaster University), THE IMPERATIVE FOR TRANSATLANTIC COOPERATION,” The Research Institute for European and American Studies, 2010, pg. [[http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html|__http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html__]]]</span>
There is no doubt that US-European relations are in aperiod of transition, and that the stresses and strains of globalization are increasing both the number and the seriousness of the challenges that confront transatlantic relations. The events of 9/11 and the Iraq War have added significantly to these stresses and strains. At the same time, internationalterrorism, thenuclearization ofNorth KoreaandespeciallyIran, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), the transformation ofRussiainto a stable and cooperative member of the international community, the growing power ofChina,the politicaland economic transformation andintegration oftheCaucasianandCentral Asianstates, the integrationandstabilization of theBalkancountries, the promotion ofpeace and stability in theMiddleEast,poverty, climate change, AIDS and otheremergentproblemsand situationsrequirefurthercooperationamong countries at the regional, global and institutional levels. Therefore,cooperation between the U.S. and Europe ismoreimperativethan everto deal effectively with these problems. It is fair to say that the challenges of crafting a new relationship between the U.S. and the EU as well as between the U.S. and NATO are more regional than global, but the implications of success or failure will be global. The transatlantic relationship is still in crisis, despite efforts to improve it since the Iraq War. This is not to say that differences between the two sides of the Atlantic did not exist before the war. Actually, post-1945 relations between Europe and the U.S. were fraught with disagreements and never free of crisis since the Suez crisis of 1956. Moreover, despite trans-Atlantic proclamations of solidarity in the aftermath of 9/11, the U.S. and Europe parted ways on issues from global warming and biotechnology to peacekeeping and national missile defense. Questions such as, the future role of NATO and its relationship to the common European Security and Defense policy (ESDP), or what constitutes terrorism and what the rights of captured suspected terrorists are, have been added to the list of US-European disagreements. There are two reasons for concern regarding the transatlantic rift. First,if European leaders conclude that Europe must becomecounterweightto the U.S., rather than a partner,it will be difficult to engage in the kind of open search for a common ground than an electivepartnership requires. Second, there is a risk that public opinion in both the U.S. and Europe will make it difficult even for leaders who want to forge a new relationship to make the necessary accommodations. If both sides would actively work to heal the breach, a new opportunity could be created.A vibrant transatlantic partnership remains a real possibility, but only if both sides make the necessary political commitment. There are strong reasons to believe that the security challenges facing the U.S. and Europe are more shared than divergent. The most dramatic case is terrorism. Closely related is the common interest in halting the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the nuclearization of Iran and North Korea. This commonality of threats is clearly perceived by publics on both sides of the Atlantic. Actually, Americans and Europeans see eye to eye on more issues than one would expect from reading newspapers and magazines. But while elites on both sides of the Atlantic bemoan a largely illusory gap over the use of military force, biotechnology, and global warming, surveys of American and European public opinion highlight sharp differences over global leadership, defense spending, and the Middle East that threaten the future of the last century’s most successful alliance. There areotherimportant,shared interestsas well.The transformation of Russiainto a stable cooperative member of the international communityisa priority both for the U.S.andEurope. They also have an interest inpromoting a stable regime inUkraine.It is necessary for the U.S. and EU to form a united frontto meet these challengesbecausefirst,there is a risk thatdangerous materials related toWMDwill fall into the wrong hands; andsecond,thespread of conflictalong those countries’ peripherycoulddestabilize neighboring countries and providesafe havens for terroristsand other international criminal organizations. Likewise, in the Caucasus and Central Asia both sides share a stake in promoting political and economic transformation and integrating these states into larger communities such as the OSCE. This would also minimize the risk of instability spreading and prevent those countries of becoming havens for international terrorists and criminals. Similarly, there is a common interest in integrating the Balkans politically and economically.Dealing withIran, Iraq, Lebanon, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as well as otherpolitical issues in the MiddleEastarealsoof a great concern for bothsides although the U.S. plays a dominant role in the region. Finally,US-European cooperation will be more effective in dealing with therising power of Chinathrough engagement but also containment. The post Iraq War realities have shown that it is no longer simply a question of adapting transatlantic institutions to new realities. The changing structure of relations between the U.S. and Europe implies that a new basis for the relationship must be found if transatlantic cooperation and partnership is to continue.The future course of relations will bedetermined above all by U.S. policy towards Europeand the Atlantic Alliance. Wise policy can help forge a new, more enduring strategic partnership, through which the two sides of the Atlantic cooperate in meeting the many major challenges and opportunities of the evolving world together. Buta policy thattakes Europe for grantedandroutinelyignores orevenbelittles European concerns,may force Europe to conclude that the costs of continued alliance outweigh its benefits. There is no doubt that the U.S. and Europe have considerable potential to pursue common security interests. Several key steps must be taken to make this potential a reality. First, it is critical to avoid the trap of ‘division of labor’ in the security realm, which could be devastating for the prospects of future cooperation. Second, and closely related to avoiding division of labor as a matter of policy, is the crucial necessity for Europe to develop at least some ‘high-end’ military capabilities to allow European forces to operate effectively with the U.S. Third, is the need for both the U.S. and Europe to enhance their ability to contribute to peacekeeping and post-conflict stabilization and reconstruction. Fourth, is the importance of preserving consensus at the heart of alliance decision-making. Some have argued that with the expansion of NATO, the time has come to reconsider the consensus role. One way to increase efficiency without destroying consensus would be to strengthen the role of the Secretary General in managing the internal and administrative affairs of the alliance, while reserving policy for the member states. Fifth is the need to make further progress on linking and de-conflicting NATO and EU capabilities. Sixth is the need for enhanced transatlantic defense industrial cooperation. Seventh, one future pillar for transatlantic cooperation is to strengthen US-European coordination in building the infrastructure of global governance through strengthening institutions such as the UN and its specialized agencies, the World Bank, the IFM, G-8, OECD and regional development banks. Finally, cooperation can also be achieved in strengthening the global economic infrastructure, sustaining the global ecosystem, and combating terrorism and international crime. To translate the potential of the transatlantic relationship into a more positive reality will require two kinds of development. First, the EU itself must take further steps to institutionalize its own capacity to act in these areas. Foreign policy and especially defense policy remain the areas where the future of a ‘European’ voice is most uncertain. Second, the U.S. and Europe need to establish more formal, effective mechanisms for consultation and even decision-making. The restoration of transatlantic relations requirespolicies andactions that governments on both sides of the Atlantic shouldsimultaneously adoptand not only a unilateral change of course. Developing a new, sustainable transatlantic relationship requires a series of deliberate decisions from both the U.S. and EU if a partnership of choice and not necessity is to be established. For the U.S., this meansavoiding the temptation, offered by unprecedented strength, to go it alonein pursuit of narrowly defined national interests. For the EU, the new partnership requires a willingness to accept that the EU plays a uniquely valuable role as a leader in a world where power still matters, and that a commitment to a rule-based international order does not obviate the need to act decisively against those who do not share that vision.

**Balkans conflict goes nuclear**
**Scherbak 08** – Advisor to the Chair of the Parliament of Ukraine (Yuri Scherbak (President of the Institute for Sustainable Development of Ukraine), Ten Theses about the Russian-Georgian Conflict: A View from Ukraine, Nov 2008, pg. http://www.boell.pl/downloads/Georgia_war_from_UA_perspective_by_Y.Scherbak.pdf)
2. The war in Caucasus attested that frozen conflicts, preserving tensions around them, pose a constant threat and, under the influence of interested parties, can explode despite international regimes and limitations, thus causing geopolitical changes in the region. This refers not only to Caucasus but also to Balkans, Transdnistria and other similar regions of the world. 3. The Russian-Georgian war became the first war between the member-states of the Commonwealth of Independent States and, as such, has actually put an end to the post-Soviet, post-Belovezzian world, which was grounded on the interests of the fSU republics and their recognition of the Russia’s leading role. 4. Compared to Ukrainian political parties, the Ukrainian civil and expert society has made a more sober assessment of the causes and consequences of this 5-day war. Among the main conclusions are the following: - by conducting the so-called soft ethnical cleansing (moving the Georgian population out of the self-proclaimed republics) and issuing passports of the Russian Federation to Abkhazians and Ossetians, for 17 years Russia has been deliberately preparing the recognition of the puppet regimes in order to undermine the integrity of Georgia and prohibit it from joining NATO; - the events in Caucasus are demonstrate the dangerous ignoring of international norms by the Russian leadership (Helsinki accords and international treaties) for the sake of reaching their geopolitical goals; - the strategic objective of Russia is to establish control over the routes of Caspian oil and gas transportation on the territory of Georgia and to prevent creation of independent routes for transferring energy carriers beyond Russia’s area of influence; - there is a strong possibility of a growing threat from Russia to Ukraine to be realized by artificial creation of a conflict, most likely on the territory of Crimea, to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO. 5. The current harsh financial and economic crisis with unpredictable geopolitical and social consequences is a new destructive element affecting the situation in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Caucasus states and the whole European region. There is a danger of neo-totalitarian regimes appearing on the continent, xenophobia and aggressive nationalism growing stronger and new isolationism adopted as main political philosophy. All of these developments could dramatically change the political map of Europe. 6. One of the results of the war between Georgia and Russia is a new challenge of Russia to Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Moldova, NATO and EU member states, which can mean abandonment of the post-Helsinki world and returning to the 19th-20th -century style division of spheres of influence among superpowers. 7. Taking into account the deep political crisis, conflict in leadership and division in society, the situation in Ukraine is chaotic and unbalanced. No one, except for the President and the National Security and Defense Council, stands against the Russian doctrine of Putin-Medvedev regarding the legitimacy of Russia’s military actions towards its closest neighbors on the grounds of protecting “Russian citizens” on the territory of sovereign states. The official Kyiv has no uniform action strategy regarding the existing threats from Moscow. The Ukrainian expert community considers the following optional strategies that Ukraine could adhere to in this situation: - increase efforts to ensure that Ukraine joins NATO as soon as possible; - withdraw the issue of NATO membership from the country’s agenda and instead concentrate on making progress in relationship with the European Union, following the advice of German and French experts; - start rearmament and modernization of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with some experts calling for renewal of the nuclear-missile potential of Ukraine; - conclude a separate military pact between Ukraine and the United States; - give in to Moscow’s pressure and proclaim a neutral, non-bloc state of Ukraine. 8. An important factor of the Russian pressure on Ukraine is the Black Sea Military Fleet of the Russian Federation, consisting of more than 100 warships and based in Sevastopol, which took part in the military operations in Caucasus. Moscow will insist on the prolongation of its stay in Sevastopol after 2017 (the final date of the stay provided for in the current bilateral treaty). At present, Ukraine has little means of control over the movement of the Russian warships on its own territory. 9. As a result of the massive campaign of Russian media, which could be considered an information war against Ukraine, 56% of Russians believe that Ukraine is hostile to Russia. Meanwhile only 8% Ukrainians consider Russia hostile to Ukraine. 10. The uniform position of the EU and NATO regarding common energy and security policy, involving participation of Ukraine and Georgia, could stop the Russia’s expansion in the postSoviet area. CONCLUSIONS 1. The war between Georgia and Russia opened a new dangerous phase of political instability. Russia took the road of building a new empire in the post-Soviet space and ignoring international legal norms. The use of force by a great nuclear power against its weak neighbors can lead to a new global conflict.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 3 is Solvency__**</span></span>

**Implementing a VTS solves- Norway proves**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 6, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span>)//SK//
//The Arctic, as observers know, is on the verge of historic change and with it must come the aids to navigation and safety infrastructure to ensure shipping can be conducted safely and with the reasonable prospect of rescue in the event of a major disaster. No place is more critical to safety in the Arctic than the confined waters of the Bering Strait. Therefore, what is needed is a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) to mitigate risk associated with increased shipping. The Norwegians have a VTS at Vardø on the northern tip of Norway that could serve as a model for the Bering.[2] According to the Norwegian Oceanic Vessel Traffic Management Services handbook, the Norwegian Coastal Administration’s missions are fourfold: Coastal Management, Maritime Safety, Maritime Transport and Emergency preparedness in case of acute pollution. Recognizing the Barents Sea is a financially productive water space representing three of Norway’s largest industries: oil, gas and fisheries, it is incumbent on Norway to manage maritime traffic to prevent accidents that could threaten their livelihood.[3] The US and Russian Federation economic zones in the Bering Strait are just as vulnerable as Norway’s.//

//**VTS will be able to monitor traffic and retain dialogue to take action.**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Wednesday, February 8, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK
Assuming a VTS is a next logic step in Arctic infrastructure development, alone it cannot be expected to reduce the risks during transit. While a VTS provides the situational awareness by monitoring, tracking and communicating with vessels, it also needs to have a response capability. The Vardø VTS has an emergency tow response service, as well as, two Rescue Coordination Centers in the North and South of Norway.[11] Recall for a moment the Russian Federation’s desire for ten NSR Rescue Centers. But Rescue Centers alone will not be enough to ensure safe passage. Given the recent environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico and environmentalists calls for spill response protocols prior to the US Government allowing multinational oil and gas companies to drill in the Arctic, putting appropriate controls in place, to respond in the event of a spill and/or a vessel run aground, would seem reasonable. Fortunately, the Arctic Council appears to be moving toward a Spill Response agreement in the near future. Naturally, as vessel traffic increases, the Bering Strait VTS must also have supporting infrastructure such as aids to navigation, a port facility to harbor emergency tow service vessels and icebreakers, heated hangers and helicopter pads for the Russian Federation Border Guard and/or US Coast Guard air rescue. A strategically placed spill response capability should also be included. All of which would be necessary investments. Vardø VTS has the following primary tasks: • Monitor ship movements - record, identify and detect irregularities • Prevent accidents by maintaining constant dialogue with vessel trafﬁc • Take action and alert when a situation requires it • Manage tugboat preparedness Norway • Monitor the coverage area in the Norwegian economic zone, Svalbard and Jan Mayen • Navarea 19 coordinator, issuing and sending of navigational warnings • Assembly and provision of statistics • 1st line response of the Norwegian Coastal Administration • Contact in the agreement on international notiﬁcation of acute pollution with Russia • Information exchange with Iceland • National coordinator of Single Hull, reporting to Helsinki Commission/European Maritime Safety Agency

**The Ports and Waterways Safety Act proves VTS is SOLELY Coast Guard jurisdiction**
**NAVCEN 12** (The Navigation Center of Excellence, US Department of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard, “PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY SYSTEM (PAWSS)”, Last Updated 03/13/2012 , http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/index.php?pageName=vtsPAWSS)//SK//
//The Coast Guard has a statutory responsibility under the Ports and Waterways Safety Act of 1972 (PWSA), Title 33 USC §1221to ensure the safety and environmental protection of U.S. ports and waterways. The PWSA authorizes the Coast Guard to "...establish, operate and maintain vessel traffic services in ports and waterways subject to congestion." It also authorizes the Coast Guard to require the carriage of electronic devices necessary for participation in the VTS system. The purpose of the act was to establish good order and predictability on United States waterways by implementing fundamental waterways management practices. In 1996 the U.S. Congress required the Coast Guard to begin an analysis of future VTS system requirements. Congress specifically directed the Coast Guard to revisit the VTS program and focus on user involvement, meeting minimum safety needs, using affordable systems, using off-the-shelf technology, and exploring public-private partnership opportunities. The Coast Guard’s PAWSS project was established to meet these goals.//

//**And your DAs are non-unique---the 2013 budget gave money to rebuild Coast Guard capabilities.**//
//**USCG 12** (United States Coast Guard, “U.S. Coast Guard Fact Sheet Fiscal Year 2013 President’s Budget”, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 13-Feb 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/posturestatement/docs/FY_2013_Budget_Fact_Sheet.pdf)//SK
BACKGROUND: The FY 2013 President’s Budget requests $9.97 billion for the Coast Guard, including $8.32 billion in discretionary funding. This Budget strikes the optimal balance between sustaining current operations and investing in future capabilities. KEY POINTS: Provides $1.2 billion to Responsibly Rebuild the Coast Guard. Investment in recapitalization is a top budget priority in FY 2013. Funds current services requirements to Efficiently Preserve Front-line Operations, including resources to operate and maintain new assets, and funding for personnel pay and benefit increases.
**AND Interpretation: aff must read a topical plan text and the negative must advocate either the status quo or a competitive policy option.**
**Predictability – there are an infinite amount of competing frameworks to evaluate a debate – using the USFG is the most predictable**

**Policy simulation provides the greatest internal link to real world education**
**Walt 91** (Stephen, Professor – U Chicago, International Studies Quarterly, 35)
A second norm is relevance**,** a belief thateven highly abstract lines of inquiry should be guided by the goal of solving real-world problems. Because the value of a given approach may not be apparent at the beginning-game theory is an obvious example-we cannot insist that a new approach be immediately applicable to a specific research puzzle. On the whole, however, the belief that scholarship in security affairs should be linked to real-world issues has prevented the field from degenerating into self-indulgent intellectualizing. And from the Golden Age to the present, security studies has probably had more real-world impact, for good or ill, than most areas of social science. Finally, the renaissance of security studies has been guided by a commitment to democratic discourse. Rather than confining discussion of security issues to an elite group of the best and brightest, scholars in the renaissance have generally welcomed a more fully informed debate. To paraphrase Clemenceau, issues of war and peace are too important to be left solely to insiders with a vested interest in the outcome. The growth of security studies within universities is one sign of broader participation, along with increased availability of information and more accessible publications for interested citizens. Although this view is by no means universal, the renaissance of security studies has been shaped by the belief that a well-informed debate is the best way to avoid the disasters that are likely when national policy is monopolized by a few self-interested parties.

**Risk assessment is the most real-world and comprehensive form of policy-making- Rejection of risk assessment ruins policy debates**
**Regens et. al 83-**is assistant director for science policy in the Office of International Activities, United States Environmental Protection Agency AND assistant professor of sociology at the George Washington University AND assistant professor of public affairs and political science and deputy director of the graduate program in science, technology, and public policy at the George Washington University (James L. AND Thomas Dietz AND Robert W. Wycroft, 1983, “Risk Assessment in the Policy-Making Process: Environmental Health and Safety Protection”, pgs. 137-138, JSTOR || RT)
The concept of risk has become a key consideration in policy making in the United States over the past decade. Much of the current debate about environmental, health, and safety regulation in this country is couched in risk terms, and decision makers at all levels of government find themselves faced with critical choices about the costs, risks, and benefits of their policy op- tions.' By risk, we mean a measure of the probability of adverse effects and their severity.2 Risk assessment in- volves methods for collecting information relevant to the risks in question, a set of guidelines for interpreting these data, standards for making determinations about the scientific reliability and merit of each source of research information, models for extrapolating find- ings, and evaluating those findings with regard to accep- tability or avoidance.3 Until recently, risks were viewed as a relatively nar- row technical problem. That is, the identification, esti- mation, and evaluation of risk traditionally has been seen as the domain of the scientific or technical expert. In recent years, however, analyses of risk have become central components of many policy debates, such as concerns about nuclear waste disposal or the use of diethylstilbestrol in the food industry.4 These and other controversies have politicized risk assessment. Accord- ing to Nelkin and Pollak, three features of these scien- tific and technical disputes have contributed to the politicization of risk and to the resulting difficulties of public decision making. First, the high degree of uncer- tainty surrounding the factual basis of risk assessment is complicated by frequent disagreements within the ex- pert community about interpreting and evaluating these data. Second, the boundary between the technical and political aspects of risk assessment is vague and con- stantly shifting. For example, risk tends to be defined in technical terms, but acceptability of risk is largely a political judgment. And third, there is a tendency translate concerns about risk into questions about political authority and the legitimacy of policy rules. This is a consequence of declining trust in expertise and in existing decision-making arrangements, as well as an increasing gap between many official estimates of risks and public attitudes and perceptions of these hazards.5 In such a milieu, it is inevitable that decision makers will be subjected to tremendous counter-pressures from affected individuals or groups eager to have their own views of risk incorporated into policy choices. This is especially the case given the rise of the environmental and consumer movements and the activities of other specialized interest groups mobilized at least in part by heightened awareness of risks. The public sector re- sponse to these concerns is described by Moss and Lubin: The political (executive and congressional) reaction to the public's sense of helplessness when confronted with complex and threatening risks was to put in place a sweeping series of laws designed to protect the citizenry, along with federal agencies to administer these laws. These laws and agencies were, in a sense, meant to regulate public in- voluntary and occasionally even voluntary exposure to risk.' Beginning with the growing concern about cancer in the late 1950s, but rapidly accelerating because of perceived threats to ecosystems some 10 years later, a series of social regulatory initiatives thrust government, particu- larly federal departments and agencies, into a host of health, environmental protection, and safety roles.7 As a result, questions have been raised about the capa- bilities of science and technology to provide the bureaucracy with an adequate knowledge base for regulatory decisions. These concerns hinge partially on our existing analytical methods and techniques to pro- vide realistic estimates of the risks, benefits, and costs of alternative regulatory policies.8 Historically, it has been customary for the Congress to establish broad national goals and then assign responsibility to one or more federal agencies for con- ducting the activities needed to achieve them. By the early 1960s, the federal government had significant economic regulatory responsibilities in just four areas: antitrust, financial institutions, transportation, and communications In each of these areas, the policy ob- jective was to prevent or mitigate the economic damage associated with provision of goods or services, typically within a single industry. Thus, while regulatory agencies might possess broad-ranging discretionary authority to influence actions within a specific industrial sector, their standards and guidelines generally did not affect the economy as a whole.'0 The pattern of delimiting the scope of economic ac- tivity subject to regulatory action has been altered sub- stantially by the adoption of most of the new social regulation." Responding to numerous political as well as scientific pressures, Congress in the past 20 years has approached the question of granting administrative dis- cretion to regulatory agencies under its more recently enacted health, safety, and environmental legislation in a variety of ways. Often, the national scope and com- plexity of social problems posing risks has led to the delegation of broad powers. The Clean Air Act (CAA) and the Clean Water Act, for example, call for reduc- tion of exposure to hazardous air pollutants and toxic pollutants, respectively, to levels allowing an adequate margin of safety.'2 In other instances, such as risks posed to human health and/or natural ecosystems by specific chemicals, the problem has been defined and dealt with in more narrow terms. Congress also has enlarged its role in determining how the goals of regula- tion will be attained. For instance, when it amended the CAA in 1977, the legislative branch chose to involve itself directly in both the formulation and implementa- tion stages of the policy process. The CAA contains ex- plicit details with respect to setting standards for air quality. It mandates the reduction of ambient emissions to some percentage of existing levels as well as estab- lishes time frames for meeting those standards. Such legislation potentially affects the entire economy, or at least cuts across multiple sectors, unlike the earlier nar- row economic regulatory efforts.'3 At the same time, the major objectives of the new social regulation, including reducing the risks to human health and safety and the hazards of environmental degradation, have proven difficult to operationalize. Absolute prohibition of risk, based upon the existence of detectable amounts of some pollutant, for example, often means that the operational definition of risk becomes increasingly stringent. Both improvements in the state-of-the-art capability for detecting adverse ef- fects associated with exposure to a given substance and intensification of the regulatory and scientific scrutiny to which a hazardous substance may be subjected can lead to a requirement for remedial actions which is dis- proportionate to the risks to health or safety.'4 More- over, given the evolving state of scientific knowledge, the exact relationship between exposure to a number of environmental pollutants and human health and safety effects remains highly uncertain. Because more attention now is devoted to the scien- tific foundation of risk-reducing efforts, the use of quantitative analyses to establish priorities for setting standards has become more attractive. Policy makers, always tempted by any procedure that demonstrates scientific or technical rationality, have found in risk assessment a useful mechanism through which their concerns can be demonstrated, as well as a useful frame- work for making decisions and for changing perspec- tives or participants.'5 As Peter Hutt, former counsel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), recently stated: "Despite its uncertainties and shortcomings, quantitative risk assessment represents the best ap- proach to safety-decisions available to the regulators at this time."' For all these reasons, the process of mak- ing public policy in environmental, health, and safety fields increasingly rests on the assessment of risks. This trend is as important for the review and oversight of agency actions as it is for policy formulation and im- plementation activities


===Stanford=== 
**Same as Golden Desert except a risk framing card on the framework in sovlency instead of the Mearshimer card.**
**Here is the card that replaced the Mearshimer card**
**__[[#|Risk assessment]]__ is the most real-world and comprehensive form of policy-making- Rejection of __[[#|risk assessment]]__ ruins policy debates**
**Regens et. al 83****-**is assistant director for science policy in the Office of International Activities, United States Environmental Protection Agency AND assistant professor of sociology at the George Washington __[[#|University AND]]__ assistant professor of public affairs and political science and deputy director of the __[[#|graduate program]]__ in science, technology, and public policy at the George Washington University (James L. AND Thomas Dietz AND Robert W. Wycroft, 1983, “Risk Assessment in the Policy-Making Process: __[[#|Environmental Health]]__ and Safety Protection”, pgs. 137-138, JSTOR || RT)
The concept of risk has become a key consideration in policy making in the United States over the past decade. Much of the current debate about environmental, health, and safety regulation in this country is couched in risk terms, and decision makers at all levels of government find themselves faced with critical choices about the costs, risks, and benefits of their policy op- tions.' By risk, we mean a measure of the probability of adverse effects and their severity.2 __[[#|Risk assessment]]__ in- volves methods for collecting information relevant to the risks in question, a set of guidelines for interpreting these data, standards for making determinations about the scientific reliability and merit of each source of research information, models for extrapolating find- ings, and evaluating those findings with regard to accep- tability or avoidance.3 Until recently, risks were viewed as a relatively nar- row technical problem. That is, the identification, esti- mation, and evaluation of risk traditionally has been seen as the domain of the scientific or technical expert. In recent years, however, analyses of risk have become central components of many policy debates, such as concerns about nuclear __[[#|waste disposal]]__ or the use of diethylstilbestrol in the food industry.4 These and other controversies have politicized risk assessment. Accord- ing to Nelkin and Pollak, three features of these scien- tific and technical disputes have contributed to the politicization of risk and to the resulting difficulties of public decision making. First, the high __[[#|degree]]__ of uncer- tainty surrounding the factual basis of risk assessment is complicated by frequent disagreements within the ex- pert community about interpreting and evaluating these data. Second, the boundary between the technical and political aspects of risk assessment is vague and con- stantly shifting. For example, risk tends to be defined in technical terms, but acceptability of risk is largely a political judgment. And third, there is a tendency __[[#|translate]]__ concerns about risk into questions about political authority and the legitimacy of policy rules. This is a consequence of declining trust in expertise and in existing decision-making arrangements, as well as an increasing gap between many official estimates of risks and public attitudes and perceptions of these hazards.5 In such a milieu, it is inevitable that decision makers will be subjected to tremendous counter-pressures from affected individuals or groups eager to have their own views of risk incorporated into policy choices. This is especially the case given the rise of the environmental and consumer movements and the activities of other specialized interest groups mobilized at least in part by heightened awareness of risks. The public sector re- sponse to these concerns is described by Moss and Lubin: The political (executive and congressional) reaction to the public's sense of helplessness when confronted with complex and threatening risks was to put in place a sweeping series of laws designed to protect the citizenry, along with federal agencies to administer these laws. These laws and agencies were, in a sense, meant to regulate public in- voluntary and occasionally even voluntary exposure to risk.' Beginning with the growing concern about cancer in the late 1950s, but rapidly accelerating because of perceived threats to ecosystems some 10 years later, a series of social regulatory initiatives thrust government, particu- larly federal departments and agencies, into a host of health, environmental protection, and safety roles.7 As a result, questions have been raised about the capa- bilities of science and technology to provide the bureaucracy with an adequate knowledge base for regulatory decisions. These concerns hinge partially on our existing analytical methods and techniques to pro- vide realistic estimates of the risks, benefits, and costs of alternative regulatory policies.8 Historically, it has been customary for the Congress to establish broad national goals and then assign responsibility to one or more federal agencies for con- ducting the activities needed to achieve them. By the early 1960s, the federal government had significant economic regulatory responsibilities in just four areas: antitrust, financial institutions, transportation, and communications In each of these areas, the policy ob- jective was to prevent or mitigate the economic damage associated with provision of goods or services, typically within a single industry. Thus, while regulatory agencies might possess broad-ranging discretionary authority to influence actions within a specific industrial sector, their standards and guidelines generally did not affect the economy as a whole.'0 The pattern of delimiting the scope of economic ac- tivity subject to regulatory action has been altered sub- stantially by the adoption of most of the new social regulation." Responding to numerous political as well as scientific pressures, Congress in the past 20 years has approached the question of granting administrative dis- cretion to regulatory agencies under its more recently enacted health, safety, and environmental legislation in a variety of ways. Often, the national scope and com- plexity of social problems posing risks has led to the delegation of broad powers. The Clean Air Act (CAA) and the Clean Water Act, for example, call for reduc- tion of exposure to hazardous air pollutants and toxic pollutants, respectively, to levels allowing an adequate margin of safety.'2 In other instances, such as risks posed to human health and/or natural ecosystems by specific chemicals, the problem has been defined and dealt with in more narrow terms. Congress also has enlarged its role in determining how the goals of regula- tion will be attained. For instance, when it amended the CAA in 1977, the legislative branch chose to involve itself directly in both the formulation and implementa- tion stages of the policy process. The CAA contains ex- plicit details with respect to setting standards for air quality. It mandates the reduction of ambient emissions to some percentage of existing levels as well as estab- lishes time frames for meeting those standards. Such legislation potentially affects the entire economy, or at least cuts across multiple sectors, unlike the earlier nar- row economic regulatory efforts.'3 At the same time, the major objectives of the new social regulation, including reducing the risks to human health and safety and the hazards of environmental degradation, have proven difficult to operationalize. Absolute prohibition of risk, based upon the existence of detectable amounts of some pollutant, for example, often means that the operational definition of risk becomes increasingly stringent. Both improvements in the state-of-the-art capability for detecting adverse ef- fects associated with exposure to a given substance and intensification of the regulatory and scientific scrutiny to which a hazardous substance may be subjected can lead to a requirement for remedial actions which is dis- proportionate to the risks to health or safety.'4 More- over, given the evolving state of scientific knowledge, the exact relationship between exposure to a number of environmental pollutants and human health and safety effects remains highly uncertain. Because more attention now is devoted to the scien- tific foundation of risk-reducing efforts, the use of quantitative analyses to establish priorities for setting standards has become more attractive. Policy makers, always tempted by any procedure that demonstrates scientific or technical rationality, have found in risk assessment a useful mechanism through which their concerns can be demonstrated, as well as a useful frame- work for making decisions and for changing perspec- tives or participants.'5 As Peter Hutt, former counsel to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), recently stated: "Despite its uncertainties and shortcomings, quantitative risk assessment represents the best ap- proach to safety-decisions available to the regulators at this time."' For all these reasons, the process of mak- ing public policy in environmental, health, and safety fields increasingly rests on the assessment of risks. This trend is as important for the review and oversight of agency actions as it is for policy formulation and im- plementation activities


===Updated Summary of Changes=== 
**The Arctic advantage is exactly the same, took out the oil advantage and put in Maritime Domain Awareness, took out Boyer and added NAVCEN, changed Vessel Traffic System to Vessel Traffic Service in the plan text, added framework in solvency**

===Summary of Changes=== 
**Took out inherency, took out priest, took out Syria, added SAR (terminal impacts: airpower, balkan conflict)**

===Greenhill 1AC=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 1 is Inherency__**</span></span>

**There’s no safety infrastructure at the Bering Strait __[[#|now]]__**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military __[[#|strategist]]__ with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's __[[#|work]]__ has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait __[[#|Vessel]]__ Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for __[[#|information]]__ and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 6, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span>)//SK//
//Nations and multi-national corporations are positioning themselves to take full advantage of the Arctic’s Northwest Passage (NWP) and Northern Sea Route (__[[#|NSR]]__). However, there is every little safety infrastructure in place to ensure incident-free transit. Both of these Sea Lines of Communication terminate in the Bering Strait, the gateway to the Arctic. In this critical water space it is essential the United States and __[[#|Russia]]__ __[[#|begin]]__ considering how to manage traffic through this strategic choke point. In September 2011 Prime __[[#|Minister]]__ Putin announced at the second International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, __[[#|Russia]]__’s “intention to turn the __[[#|NSR]]__ into a key transport route of global importance”. PM Putin further said, “We believe that __[[#|NSR]]__ has a bright future as an international transport artery capable of being a competitor to __[[#|more]]__ traditional routes, both when it comes to price, safety and quality”.[1] Subsequently, __[[#|Russia]]__ has announced it intends to build ten Arctic rescue centers, develop a new Arctic rescue ship, develop military ice-capable transports and construct new icebreakers to replace its __[[#|aging]]__ fleet.//
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 2 is Oil Production__**</span></span>
//**We need Arctic oil- New infrastructure solves**//
//**USARC 09** (The United States Arctic Research __[[#|Commission]]__, The Arctic Marine Shipping __[[#|Assessment]]__ is a comprehensive __[[#|study]]__ that focuses on marine safety and marine environmental protection and emphasizes three themes: enhancing Arctic marine safety, protecting Arctic people and the environment, and building the Arctic marine infrastructure., “Scenarios, Futures and Regional Futures to 2020”, ine.uaf.edu/accap/documents/AMSAScenariosandRegionalFutures.__[[#|pdf]]__)//SK
U.S. Geological __[[#|Survey]]__ report, issued in July 2008, indicates the Arctic may contain as much as one-fifth of the world’s undiscovered oil and natural gas. __[[#|More]]__ specifically, the __[[#|assessment]]__ found the Arctic to potentially contain 90 __[[#|billion]]__ barrels of undiscovered oil and 1,670 trillion cubic feet (47 trillion cubic meters) of undiscovered natural gas, representing 13 percent of the undiscovered oil and 30 percent undiscovered natural gas. Of the total for undiscovered oil reserves, __[[#|more]]__ than half are estimated to occur in geologic provinces in the Alaska Arctic (offshore and onshore), the Amerasian Basin (offshore north of the Beaufort Sea) and in West and East Greenland (offshore). More than 70 percent of the undiscovered natural gas is estimated to be located in three areas: the West Siberian Basin (Yamal Peninsula and offshore in the Kara Sea), the East Barents Basin (location of the Russian Federation’s giant offshore Shtokman field) and the Alaska Arctic (offshore and onshore). Each of these regions would require vastly expanded Arctic marine operations to support future exploration and development. Several regions, such as offshore Greenland, would require fully developed Arctic marine transport systems to carry hydrocarbons to global markets. Despite the recent global recession, two Arctic nations, Norway and the Russian Federation, have already made significant investments during recent decades in developing Arctic hydrocarbons in offshore Arctic Norway and northwest Russia’s offshore systems in the Pechora Sea. Arctic marine transport systems support each of these developments, and oil and LNG tanker traffic from the Barents Sea to world markets is expected to continue for several decades. For the Russian Federation, future investments in developing the Shtokman gas field west of Novaya Zemlya in the east Barents Sea are evolving. This field, understood to be one of the world’s largest gas fields, lies 600 kilometers offshore and in depths of water to 2,000 meters. Exploration and development of this large, offshore region will require extraordinary levels of Arctic marine operations, most conducted in waters that are not ice-covered, but under extreme cold temperatures. Natural gas from Shtokman would be transported by sub-sea pipeline or a marine tanker system, either of which would increase marine operations in this region of the Arctic. For the United States (Alaska) and Canada, where offshore Arctic lease sales were held for the Chukchi (U.S.) and Beaufort (Canada) seas in 2008, the future remains uncertain. The leases represent long-term, strategic investments. Marine exploration of the Arctic offshore should continue during the next decade. One of the key factors in future Arctic offshore developments is that a majority of the seabed oil and gas resources are located within the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs) of the Arctic states (i.e., Arctic offshore regions of Alaska, Canada, Norway, Greenland and the Russian Federation). While there remain several, regional boundary disputes where potential resources may overlap, the general jurisdictional issues are clear and do not appear to be significant obstacles to future Arctic hydrocarbon development. Hard minerals development in the Arctic will continue to be influenced by global commodities markets and prices. However, the largest zinc mine in the world (Red Dog in the Alaska Arctic) and the largest nickel mine (Norilsk in Siberia) will continue to be solely dependent on marine transport systems - seasonal in the case of Red Dog and year-round operations for Norilsk Nickel. It is plausible that the summer, ice-free season for support to the Red Dog mine could be extended as Arctic sea ice continues to retreat in the Chukchi Sea. The Mary River iron ore deposits on Baffin Island, Nunavut in the Canadian Arctic represent a highly valuable mineral resource (high grade iron ore of 67 percent iron). Plans have been underway for some time to develop a mining operation and ship to European markets 18 million tons of ore each year, estimated to last for a minimum of 25 years. This is a large Arctic project that would involve a fleet of ice-capable cargo carriers operating on a year-round basis between Baffin Island and Europe. Ice navigation would be required for operations in the winter and early spring. Greenland geology records more than four billion years of earth history, preserving significant mineral deposits. For example, the Kvanefjeld Project near the southwest tip of Greenland represents a multi-element deposit containing rare elements, uranium and sodium fluoride. Potentially world class and multi-commodity ore deposits exist in other regions of coastal Greenland. The exploration and development of these mines will require Arctic marine transport systems to carry these scarce commodities to global markets.

**The aff leads to offshore platforms**
**LMS 05-** Land Marine Systems (2005, “VESSEL TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.lmstechnologies.com/vtms.htm</span> || RT)
__[[#|Vessels]]__ Traffic __[[#|Management Systems]]__ are __[[#|installed]]__ in some of the busiest waters in the world are making valuable contribution to safer navigation, more efficient traffic flow, and protection of the environment. Traffic flow in busy approach routes, access channels, and harbors can be coordinated safely, in the best interest of port and its users. Incidents and emergency situations can be dealt with quickly .data from traffic movements can be stored and used as reference information for port administration, port authorities, coastguards and search and rescue services. LMS is associated with a known and experienced supplier of VTMS who are involved in design, development, and installation and provide maintaince services for the VTMS intended for Ship Management Companies, Ship Owners, Ports and Oil Companies, thereby covering all __[[#|Vessel]]__ Traffic Management and Surveillance aspects. We have a range of operational systems installed worldwide LMS is proud to be involved in installation, commissioning and maintaince of first of its kind of VTMS in India and the proud customer is Kolkata Port Trust, Kolkata. LMS is also responsible for the warranty and AMC of KOPT, VTMS. VTMS systems can also be used in: Offshore Platforms Offshore platforms can use VTMS comprising radars and operators displays which help in hazardous environment of offshore oil and gas exploration and production. 24 Hrs VTMS service has become an essential safety tool and cost effective facility for: -Platform protection. -Safety of loading/unloading, buoys, wellheads, pipelines -Traffic advisory systems Ports and coastal Traffic VTMS can be installed at ports for maintaining coastal traffic and providing valuable service for their operators and customers as under: - Traffic information and advisory systems. - Traffic data for port information management system. - Assistance to coastguard, search and rescue - Smuggling, illegal immigration detection. - Protection of artillery firing ranges - Radar integration

**Collisions prevent platforms**
**Flohberger 10** (Margaret Loudon, Master’s Thesis for Faculty of Science and Technology at the University of Stavanger, “Suggested Improvements For Ship-Installation Collision Risk Models To Reflect Current Collision Avoidance Systems”, 15/06/2010, http://brage.bibsys.no/uis/bitstream/URN:NBN:no-bibsys_brage_14061/1/Flohberger%2c%20Margaret%20Loudon.pdf)//SK//
//As mentioned earlier, the size and stability of the ship will determine is susceptibility to sea induced movement. Larger vessels will generally be more stable, but as size increases the maneuverability decreases. For both large and small vessels, the velocity of the passing vessel on collision course will affect the time to until the potential collision, which will influence the effectiveness of the platform’s collision avoidance plan. Good communications and effective promulgation are important for reducing the risk of an incident. Substandard ships and ship owners pose a safety hazard, which is difficult to control due to the international nature of the maritime industry. More than half of the collisions in the North Sea are due to old and/or flags of convenience (FOC) vessels (27). Although FOC are associated with substandard shipping and poorer work conditions, there has been a steady growth in flagging out. Some flag states, known as Flags of Convenience FOC, lack both the drive and competence to enforce the safety standards set by the IMO (26). Due to the shortcomings of Flag state control, there was a need for Port States to challenge certificates of foreign vessels. In 1982 a Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control (MOU PSC) was signed by 19 European states and Canada. This gives Port States the authority to control shipping in their own waters through inspections of foreign vessels. If several deficiencies are found during the inspection, the vessel will be detained. As shown in Figure 4-2, several Flag States have a detention rate much higher than average. Typical areas for deficiencies are shown in Table 4-1. The average detention percentage was 4.9% in 2008. Figure 4-2 only includes flags with 20 and more port State control inspections with detention percentage exceeding the average. High risk flags such as Bolivia and Libyan Arab Jamahiriya also had high detention rates, 83.33% and 90.91% respectively, but do not appear on the figure because there were less than 20 inspections of these flags. Nearly 25% of the deficiencies found during the State control inspections relate to the equipment and machinery, with 12% of the total deficiencies pertaining to navigational equipment. Submarine traffic is typically excluded from collision models since the probability for collision with this vessel type is negligible compared to the probabilities for collision with other vessel types. But there have been a few collisions between platforms and submerged submarines. It should be noted that in areas where submarines operate, it may be necessary to install submarine beacons and additional promulgation may be required (48). In areas where there are a large numbers of vessels and platforms, it could be reasoned that the watchkeeper will be more vigilant than in areas where obstacles are sparse. However, data for passing vessel collisions does not support this. Areas where platforms are more numerous are at greater risk; probably because the watchkeeper’s heightened awareness is unable to compensate for the increased risk in congested areas (13). When visual observation is not possible, the navigator must depend on electronic aids. Even though the vessel should be traveling at reduced speeds and it is assumed that the navigator will be more vigilant, accident statistics indicate that a large proportion of collisions occur when visibility is poor. If a SBV is utilized as part of a platform’s collision avoidance strategy, low visibility will impact the ability of the watchkeeper on the bridge to visually identify a collision scenario. Furthermore, the platform’s Emergency Response Plan (ERP) is likely to require the SBV to approach the vessel and to use maritime light and sound signals. Poor visibility will impede the effectiveness of these methods. In the late 1970’s the effect of visibility was studied in the Dover Strait. Three visibility classes were applied in this study: • Clear: Greater than 4km • Mist/fog: 200m-4km • Thick/dense: Less than 200m For the Dover Strait, the probability of collision was found to be 300 times higher for the ‘Thick/dense’ visibility; however, because such conditions occur less that 1% of time, this class was found to contribute to 68% of collisions (26). To better understand the affect that technological advances have had, a similar study can be carried out in the North Sea for platforms to determine how visibility affects the collision risk. The observed data can be used to find the Fog Collision Risk Index (FCRI). In the North Sea, the risk of a collision for a platform located near a busy shipping lane is comparable to that of a major fire on a platform. Whereas, the likelihood of a collision for an platform in a more isolated location away from shipping lanes is relatively insignificant (27). All 8 of the passing vessel–platform collisions observed in the UKCS database occurred in the Southern area of the North Sea, which is more densely populated with shipping traffic (13). Clearly, there is an opportunity to influence the probability of a passing vessel collision in the design phase, when the platform’s location is determined. Factors which influence the probability of collision include (17): • Traffic density and proximity to the target location • Proximity to traffic separation schemes, vessel routes and/or constricted navigational channels • Other types of shipping passing in the area • Size, speed and habits of passing traffic. • Fishing routes and activity in the area. • Estimates competency of the regular traffic crews These factors will need to be assessed before locating a platform. By applying the appropriate vessel traffic data and vessel-platform collision models, the likelihood of experiencing a collision can be estimated. The assessment of traffic density may be carried out using COAST database. This data comprises numerous sources including port log data provided by LMIS (Lloyds Maritime Information Services), radar data from offshore and onshore radar stations, manual vessel traffic surveys, operator information etc (39). In the UK sector, the densities are defined as (48): Low: <1,000 passing vessels per year Low to Medium: 1,000 to 5,000 passing vessels per year Medium to High: 5,000 to 20,000 passing vessels per year High: > 20,000 passing vessels per year The degree of concentration should also be considered as there are some areas, such as the southern North Sea and Irish Sea, where the routes funnel down resulting in vessels passing in close proximity to platforms (17). It is also essential to identify regular passing traffic (e.g. ferry operators, fishing organizations and regular shipping lines) and to consult with their representatives. The local users should also be notified of the developments which follow. For busy areas, it may be required to assess how potential traffic route modifications due to the platform will impact the likelihood of vessel-vessel collisions (48). Data from Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) can be used to identify any changes in traffic patterns.//

//**Aff solves**//
//**Flohberger 10** (Margaret Loudon, Master’s Thesis for Faculty of Science and Technology at the University of Stavanger, “Suggested Improvements For Ship-Installation Collision Risk Models To Reflect Current Collision Avoidance Systems”, 15/06/2010, http://brage.bibsys.no/uis/bitstream/URN:NBN:no-bibsys_brage_14061/1/Flohberger%2c%20Margaret%20Loudon.pdf)//SK
__[[#|Collision]]__ risks can be __[[#|reduced]]__ by __[[#|Vessel]]__ Traffic Service (VTS), which provides active monitoring and navigational advice for vessels. VTS is an integrated part of StatoilHydro’s emergency response center. In Norway, the StatoilHydro Marin provides ocean monitoring services for 51 StatoilHydro installations. They are able to monitor 80% of the NCS petroleum activity by radar. AIS transponders are used in the identification of vessels from a distance of 40 nm. VTS is able to alert installations of a vessel on collision course within an hour estimated impact. Their objective is to identify and warn ships on a course towards an installation. VTS coordinates all offshore SV, ERRV and guard vessels. Many VTS stations have radars, and the addition of AIS offers a number of positive benefits. The Statoil Hydro Marine surveillance consists of 50 integrated radars, 10 AIS transponders, and 19 VHF stations. As shown in Figure 4-4, there is a significant overlap of the radar coverage, which offers optimal target detection. VTS data may also be used during accident investigations. For example, the captain of the Grane told the investigation team that the ships speed was 1.5-2 knots just before impact; however, records from Statoil Marin indicate that the boat's speed at the collision ranged from 2 -7 knots, and was probably a few less than 7 knots (34). VTS can also assist with data collection. Monitoring by VTS plays a main role in Norway’s RNNP project. As shown in Figure 4-5, collision trends such as "major accident DFU vessel on a collision course” can be measured with more accuracy.

**Scenario 1 is Oil Prices**
**US losing leadership on oil which causes price shocks**
**Priest 12** (Tyler, Tyler Priest is a professor of business history and director of global studies at the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston., “The Dilemmas of Oil Empire”, Oxford Journals, Humanities Journal of American History Volume 99, Issue 1, June 2012, Pages 236-251)//SK//
//Oil will endure as the world’s dominant fuel for many years to come. But the United States no longer dominates the world oil market. The global playing field now includes many independents, state-backed firms, oil service companies, utilities, traders, and diversified mineral firms based around the world. The momentous shift in energy demand to China and other developing countries has already allowed those nations to overshadow the U.S. market in global oil investment and trade. The globalization of oil implies the de-Americanization of oil. This trend has not necessarily imperiled U.S. national interests, but it has created liabilities for the country. The costs of using the U.S. military to protect[ing] foreign oil fields, pipelines, and sea lanes, the price of which has never registered at American gas pumps, increasingly endanger U.S. fiscal health. Moreover, the growing opacity in both physical and paper oil transactions and ongoing global financial turmoil magnify potential problems. If nations running balance-of-payments surpluses continue to diversify their foreign exchange reserves away from the weakening dollar, Americans might be forced to surrender the exorbitant privilege that dollar-traded oil has long provided.40 By 2005 the decline of domestic oil production as a percentage of overall consumption made the loss of control over global oil all the more ominous for U.S. government and industry officials. Big fields such as Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay were running out. The nation remained the third-largest producer in the world, but largely because of unusually high-volume output from modest-sized fields (by global standards) in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and hundreds of thousands of economically marginal or “stripper” wells onshore, producing less than fifteen barrels per day, that still qualified for generous tax breaks. Even then, 60 percent of the oil used in the United States was imported.41 The United States also appeared headed for natural gas shortages, forcing the petroleum industry to make plans to build facilities for importing liquefied natural gas. Large-scale imports of crude oil and natural gas threatened to enlarge already record U.S. balance-of-payments deficits. Miraculously, the U.S. energy outlook suddenly brightened. In just the last few years, thanks in part to soaring oil prices, technology has opened up spectacular new oil and gas frontiers that might alter the map of world supply. “Unconventional” sources of fossil fuels, mainly natural gas and “tight oil” produced by hydrofractured drilling (or “hydrofracking”) in shale formations from Texas to North Dakota to Pennsylvania, as well as the burgeoning output of “oil sands” from Canada, have dramatically extended domestic and North American energy resources. Major oil discoveries in the “ultra-deepwater” of the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil have ushered in a renaissance in deepwater exploration that was only briefly suspended in the aftermath of the Macondo well blowout and spill. Improved prospects for drilling in the Arctic, where the U.S. Geological Survey expects a quarter of the world’s remaining conventional oil and gas to be found, have added to this favorable outlook for U.S. “energy security,**”** with the U.S. security zone often casually drawn from the Arctic Ocean to Tierra del Fuego. “The outline of the new world oil map is emerging,” writes Daniel Yergin, “and it is centered not on the Middle East but on the Western Hemisphere.” Production along this new hemispheric energy axis, along with growing efforts to supplement the energy mix with renewables and more efficient uses of fossil fuels, could wean the United States off oil imported from outside the Western Hemisphere in the not-too-distant future, revitalizing the U.S. economy in the process.42 Predictions of a dawning new world oil order raise numerous questions. Most importantly, what kind of security will this shift really buy? The new oil and gas supplies may be more strategically secure, but they also present environmental risks.//

//**That leads to protectionism**//
//**Curtis and Ehrenfeld 12** (Fred, Fred Curtis is Professor of Economics and Environmental Studies at Drew University in Madison, New Jersey, AND David, David Ehrenfeld is a professor at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, “The new geography of trade: globalization’s decline may stimulate local recovery”, Published Feb 10 2012 by The Solutions Journal, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.energybulletin.net/stories/2012-02-10/new-geography-trade-globalization%E2%80%99s-decline-may-stimulate-local-recovery</span>)// SK
The price of crude oil rose from $28 per barrel in 2003 to over $147 in the summer of 2008. In 2008 20 airlines (mostly regional freight carriers) went bankrupt.4 Fuel costs rose from 15 to 35 percent of airline (freight and passenger) operating expenses.5 In the first two months of 2011, air carriers increased fares four times to adjust for rising oil prices.6 In 2007–2008, the cost of trans-Pacific shipping of a standard container by sea went from $3,000 to $8,000.7 In 2010, with oil at half its 2008 price, the Danish shipping company Maersk cut its top cruising speeds in half to reduce fuel costs.8,9 According to economists Jeff Rubin and Benjamin Tal, every $1 per barrel increase in crude oil prices results in a 1 percent increase in freight transportation costs.7 As economic growth resumes, the demand for oil will increase. The International Energy Agency predicted a 2.5 million barrel per day increase for 2011, the biggest one-year increase in 30 years.10 Chinese oil demand is expected to grow over 10 percent due to economic growth and coal shortages.11 Furthermore, recent decisions in Japan and Germany to decommission nuclear power plants may increase the demand for diesel fuel to run electric generators.12 A number of factors limit oil supply’s ability to both keep up with demand and limit oil price instability. Deepwater drilling is likely to be more expensive in the Gulf of Mexico due to new regulations and higher insurance costs following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.13,14 Deepwater oil will provide at least 25 percent of world supply by 2020.15 The failure to invest in sufficient upstream production facilities has also made an oil-supply crunch likely. Political unrest in the oil-rich Middle East creates uncertainty about oil prices due to fears of supply disruptions. And finally, there is peak oil, when production flow rates hit a maximum and decline thereafter. This has already occurred for the majority of oil producing nations and will soon happen for global oil production. Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Canada, and Venezuela are approaching national oil peaks at the same time that their domestic demand for oil is expected to rise significantly.16,17 These exporters will either reduce exports or, like Indonesia and the United Kingdom, become oil importers.17 World Energy Outlook 2010 stated that global conventional oil production peaked in 2006 and is expected to decline from 70 million barrels per day to less than 16 million in 2035.18 We use oil faster than we discover new resources. Global oil discoveries peaked in the 1960s.19 The American Joint Forces Command predicts that “By 2012, surplus oil production capacity could entirely disappear.”20 According to the United Kingdom Energy Research Centre, “more than two-thirds of current crude oil production capacity may need to be replaced by 2030 … equivalent to a new Saudi Arabia coming on stream every three years.”21 The near- and long-term results will be rising transportation fuel costs, oil-price volatility, and a declining quantity of conventional oil fuels. If large-scale mitigation of peak oil and climate change is not feasible soon, what will happen? Given current investments in the existing pattern of trade and the high costs of reorienting it, change will be resisted, with resulting widespread economic disruption. But change will occur. Clearly, increased fuel costs and higher transport risks will cause supply chains to shorten and long-distance trade to decline. Initially, there will be shifts in transport modes—truck to rail, air to water and rail—designed to preserve trade routes. But more fundamental adaptations are already starting to take place to reduce or replace long-distance trade. Beginning with the oil price and transport cost increases in 2007–2008, some companies began rethinking their global supply chains, and a few shifted to local suppliers. Some manufacturers have opened new furniture, steel, and auto plants in the United States or Mexico to feed the U.S. market.40 In May 2011, Volkswagen inaugurated its huge Passat assembly plant in Tennessee, “as part of our effort to manufacture more products locally.”41 The plant is expected to generate, directly and indirectly, 12,000 jobs. These changes in supply chains are motivated by considerations of corporate profits. Manufacturers may relocate production closer to either suppliers of key raw materials or major markets to minimize transportation miles and costs.42,43 In 2008 some steel mills in the United States increased domestic production by directly importing iron ore from Brazil. This system bypassed the expensive trans-Pacific shipment of iron ore from Brazil to China and then of steel from China to the United States.7,40 The resurgence of domestic manufacturing in developed nations could provide employment growth, especially for blue-collar workers. However, employment may decline in current low-wage manufacturing exporters as rising transportation costs make them less competitive**.** Nations may respond with protectionist policies to changes in trade patterns.In 2008**,** as __[[#|food prices]]__ rose (due in part to extreme weather, corn ethanol production, and rising oil prices), several grain-exporting nations banned exports of cereal crops.44 In June 2011 China banned the export of diesel fuel in order to have enough on hand to power electric generators in the face of expected brownouts.18 With rising transport costs, nations are likely to subsidize energy or manufacturing to preserve exports and jobs. Such export bans and subsidies [that] contravene provisions of the World Trade Organization and many trade treaties such as NAFTA. While corporations have responded to rising oil prices with some changes in supply chains, national governments have not responded in kind. Current climate-policy negotiations are ineffective despite rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions. Only the United Kingdom and Sweden have identified oil depletion as a key economic issue and begun to discuss responses. Trade policies such as the Korea and Colombia Free Trade Agreements with the United States are predicated on the assumption of cheap fuel, low transportation costs, and transportation-compatible weather patterns—in other words, business as usual. Thus, there are at present few national and no international policy responses to the imminent threats to global trade. There is, however, a second, more local, noncorporate response. This response is found in the Relocalization and Transition Towns movements now springing up in many developed countries. It is a bottom-up response that includes individuals and municipalities planning for a post-peak-oil future and altering their way of life, buying locally made products as much as possible, reducing consumption and acquisition, and increasing self-sufficiency within communities that produce many of the goods and services they consume. The resurgence in the numbers of young people going into farming in the United States is an example. Relocalization strategies include local currencies, community land trusts, decentralized alternative energy development, water conservation and reuse, local food production, and new, locally oriented business networks. Patterns of adaptation will differ from place to place. Initially, there will be heavy and unpredictable impacts on many developing nations that currently depend on foreign cash earned for commodity exports, or that import much of their food. Yet every country is different. Even large urban complexes can provide a surprising quantity of their own food. In China, concerns over rising food prices (and food safety) have caused a boom in online sales of vegetable seeds.45 Shanghai now produces much of its own vegetables within its urban limits, as do cities in sub-Saharan Africa.46 If a developing country imports many goods and services, it has to pay for them, probably in part with money earned from commodity exports. When those exports are reduced by high shipping costs, some countries will have the capacity to rapidly increase local production of essentials for local consumption. Others, less fortunate, will take longer. It is now critical for economic planners, laypersons, and governments to recognize that long-term energy and climate realities will impose limits on the global movement of goods. Trade pacts, like the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, and business models, like Walmart with its transoceanic supply chains, will make less sense as the foundations of global trade are undermined. This is not the result of either ideology or policy. Only when we accept these realities can we design and rebuild less vulnerable patterns of production and trade throughout the world. Nearly every country has existing examples of sound, regional development that can be used as models. Global trade will not disappear, but as it wanes and as supply chains shorten, the importance of regional and local economies will increase. Manufacturing and food production for domestic consumption in the United States and other developed nations (and regions within nations) will regain an importance not seen since the first half of the twentieth century. Security strategies will be adjusted to reflect the increased role of domestic production in national affairs. We should plan now for these inevitable changes. Crises bring more than trouble—they bring opportunities.

**Protectionism causes war- Multiple scenarios**
**Panzner 8** (Michael, Michael Panzner is a fellow of the New York Institute of Finance and is a 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for such leading companies as HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and J.P. Morgan Chase., Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, pages 136-138)//SK//
//Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster, But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange, foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the (heap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences.Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations [to] running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more healed sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighborsin the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an "intense confrontation" between the United States and China is "inevitable" at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.//

//**Scenario 2 is Democracy**//
//**Keeping oil prices low is key to democracy- High oil prices help dictatorships and it’s reverse causal**//
//**Ross 2011**- Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the author of the forthcoming book The Oil Curse: How Petroleum Wealth Shapes the Development of Nations (Michael L., “Will Oil Drown the Arab Spring?”, September/October Foreign Affairs”)//
//Even before this year's Arab uprisings, the Middle East was not an undifferentiated block of authoritarianism. The citizens of countries with little or no oil, such as Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, and Tunisia, generally had more freedom than those of countries with lots of it, such as Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, and Saudi Arabia. And once the tumult started, the oil-rich regimes were more effective at fending off attempts to unseat them. Indeed, the Arab Spring has seriously threatened just one oil-funded ruler -- Libya's Muammar al-Qaddafi -- and only because NATO's intervention prevented the rebels' certain defeat. Worldwide, democracy has made impressive strides over the last three decades: just 30 percent of the world's governments were democratic in 1980; about 60 percent are today. Yet almost all the democratic governments that emerged during that period were in countries with little or no oil; in fact, countries that produced less than $100 per capita of oil per year (about what Ukraine and Vietnam produce) were three times as likely to democratize as countries that produced more than that. No country with more than a fraction of the per capita oil wealth of Bahrain, Iraq, or Libya has ever successfully gone from dictatorship to democracy. Scholars have called this the oil curse, arguing that oil wealth leads to authoritarianism, economic instability, corruption, and violent conflict. Skeptics claim that the correlation between oil and repression is a coincidence. As Dick Cheney, then the CEO of Haliburton, remarked at a 1996 energy conference, "The problem is that the good Lord didn't see fit to put oil and gas reserves where there are democratic governments." But divine intervention did not cause repression in the Middle East: hydrocarbons did. There is no getting around the fact that countries in the region are less free because they produce and sell oil. OIL'S DIRTY SECRETS Oil has not always been a barrier to democracy. Until the early 1970s, oil-producing countries were no less likely to be democratic than any other state. Ironically, this was because until that point, the so-called Seven Sisters, a handful of giant Western oil companies, dominated the global oil industry and collected most of its profits. This meant that the governments of countries with a lot of oil had no more funding, and no more power over their citizens, than the governments of countries without oil. Starting in the 1960s and early 1970s, however, all this began to change. First, the Seven Sisters lost their stranglehold on the global oil market due to the rise of independent oil companies such as Getty Oil, Standard Oil of Ohio, and the Italian state-owned Eni. Meanwhile, oil-exporting states banded together to create the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, which boosted their leverage over the old and new companies. These developments, along with the Arab oil embargo that followed the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, caused oil prices to jump from $2.50 a barrel in 1972 to about $12 a barrel in 1974. Eager to capture the resulting windfalls, virtually all developing countries expropriated the foreign oil companies operating on their soil and set up national oil companies to manage them. These nationalizations brought with them massive influxes of new wealth and so were hugely popular; they made the careers of many politicians. Shortly after coming to power in a 1969 military coup, for example, Qaddafi began to nationalize his country's oil industry, which gave him control over a flood of revenue. He then spent it funding his revolutionary agenda and buying off powerful tribal chiefs who might otherwise have been a threat to his rule. The architect of Iraq's oil nationalization was the vice chair of the Revolutionary Command Council, Saddam Hussein. Saddam's prominent role in the seizure of international oil interests was his "gateway to fame," according to his biographer Con Coughlin. And his control over the resulting torrent of oil money allowed him to eventually displace Ahmad Hasan al-Bakr as Iraq's president. Nationalization made the governments of oil-exporting countries richer and more powerful than ever before. But it was a mixed blessing for the citizens of these countries. The daunting wealth and economic power that was once held by foreign corporations passed into the hands of politicians. Rulers across the region used some of the oil wealth to fund social programs to improve public services and appease their populations. That helped them survive the wave of democratization that swept the globe in the 1980s and 1990s and chased scores of other dictators out of office. Since then, control over oil revenue has helped autocrats stay in power in three main ways. First, it has allowed them to buy off citizens by providing them with many benefits with virtually no taxation. The relationship between taxation and representation has always been close: when rulers want to raise taxes, citizens demand accountability. In colonial America, frustrated subjects revolted against Great Britain in part because they had to pay taxes even though they were unrepresented in the British parliament. In the Middle East today, oil-funded leaders typically respond to demands for greater accountability by offering new handouts, lowering taxes, or both -- and this usually works. In 2011 alone, for example, Algeria announced plans to invest $156 billion in new infrastructure and cut taxes on sugar; Saudi Arabia directed $136 billion to increasing wages in the public sector, unemployment benefits, and housing subsidies; Kuwait offered each of its citizens a cash gift of 1,000 dinars (about $3,600) and free food staples for 14 months. Autocrats with little or no oil wealth -- Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali in Tunisia, Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, and Ali Abdullah Saleh in Yemen -- made similar gestures, but their pledges were much smaller and therefore less effective. Second, autocrats who get most of their funding from national oil industries find it easier to keep their countries' finances secret. Secrecy helps give oil wealth its democracy-repelling powers: citizens are satisfied with low taxes and seemingly generous benefits only when they do not realize how much of their country's wealth is being lost to theft, corruption, and government incompetence. Under Saddam, more than half of Iraq's national budget was funneled through the Iraq National Oil Company, the finances of which were never disclosed. A 2010 survey by the International Budget Partnership found that autocracies in the Middle East that have little or no oil, including Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, release at least some information about their finances; by contrast, oil-rich autocracies, such as Algeria and Saudi Arabia, disclose almost nothing. It is worth remembering that the revolts in Egypt and Tunisia were sparked by the people's growing awareness of government corruption. Finally, oil wealth allows autocrats to lavishly fund -- and buy the loyalty of -- their armed forces. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, for example, has given billions of dollars in no-bid contracts to businesses associated with the elite paramilitary Revolutionary Guards. Globally, autocrats without oil wealth spend about two percent of their countries' GDPs on their militaries, whereas their colleagues with oil wealth, who already have much larger budgets, typically spend about three percent. Oil-poor Tunisia, for example, spent $53 per capita on its armed forces in 2008; its oil-rich neighbor, Algeria, spent $141 per capita and had far fewer protests. Some of the world's biggest oil producers, including Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, are also some of its biggest military spenders. This spending has payoffs: when the citizens of Oman and Saudi Arabia took to the streets earlier this year, their armies proved relatively willingly and able to suppress them. WELL-OILED DEMOCRATIZATION None of this means that oil will drown the Arab Spring or that the oil states of the Middle East are doomed to dictatorship. Over the last 12 years, Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria have all successfully made the transition to democracy. And all have oil. But things will not be easy for the Middle East. Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria were only moderate oil producers (Indonesia barely has enough oil to export), and all three opened up politically in 1999 or 2000, shortly after oil prices hit their lowest point in almost 30 years. In fact, the last country with substantial oil wealth to successfully democratize was Venezuela, and that was in 1958. And Venezuela profited from the fact that it had a history of democratic rule and an unusually well-organized labor force, which undermined the military regime's power. But the oil-rich countries of the Middle East are very different. None has had much previous experience with democracy. And most of them have a lot more petroleum than Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria: Bahrain, for example, makes more than three times as much money from oil per capita as Venezuela did in 1958 (even after adjusting for inflation), Libya six times as much, and Saudi Arabia more than seven times as much. No country with more oil wealth than Venezuela, which in 1958 produced about 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, has ever successfully democratized. That is not to say that the Middle East's oil-funded rulers could never fall. The spread of the Internet could make it harder for autocrats to conceal government waste and corruption. Meanwhile, oscillating oil prices and government mismanagement could drain their coffers and force them to cut popular subsidies. The shah of Iran's ouster in 1979 followed a similar mixture of corruption that benefited the elite and austerity measures that hurt the lower and middle classes. Yet even if the Middle East's oil-backed dictators were replaced by elected leaders, the specter of authoritarianism would continue to loom. The region's dictators and monarchs have used oil revenues to finance vast patronage networks, which typically entangle both these regimes' supporters and their potential opponents; these networks make it harder for independent civil-society groups to take root. The lack of civil society would make it tough for new democracies to build sturdy coalitions among the old regime's opponents -- coalitions necessary to lead the new governments and fend off a return to authoritarianism. So long as oil prices remain high, moreover, these funds will be a constant source of temptation. Even politicians chosen through free and fair elections can use large petroleum windfalls to roll back democratic reforms. Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, for example, has siphoned hundreds of millions of dollars out of his country's state-owned oil company and poured it into projects that boost his popularity among low-income families and the military. The goodwill he has thus generated among them has allowed him to eliminate checks on his authority: for example, he has replaced disloyal judges on the Supreme Court, imposed new restrictions on the media, and removed presidential term limits. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has behaved similarly. It is hard to predict whether Iraq will follow a similar course. About 85 percent of the government's revenues come from oil exports, yet despite years of trying, the Iraqi parliament has been unable to pass a new oil law that would set up a legal framework to manage these revenues. Meanwhile, there are signs that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is edging away from democracy: he has taken advantage of the Iraqi constitution's ambiguities to establish personal control over key security institutions, including the Counter-Terrorism Command. Critics charge that he uses these instruments to silence political opponents. His government has also started to generously subsidize journalists with cash and land. And following popular demonstrations in February, security forces reportedly beat and arrested hundreds of journalists, political activists, and intellectuals. The Arab Spring uprisings are a reminder of the virtually universal appeal of democracy. But they should also serve as a reminder that oil wealth is one of the most stubborn obstacles to democratic reform. ENDING THE OIL CURSE The oil curse will last only as long as the world buys huge quantities of oil. Aggressive reductions in oil consumption could help reduce prices and hence the flow of money to oil-backed autocrats. The United States alone can have an impact: it is the planet's biggest consumer of petroleum, and in 2009 it burned more than twice as much oil as China, the second-largest market. By reducing its total oil consumption, the United States could help both reduce global oil prices and undermine petroleum-based dictators, even those who sell their oil to China and other autocracies. Without meaningful cuts in consumption, other measures, such as targeted sanctions, would be less effective. For example, the United States could boycott undemocratic oil producers, but as long as global demand is unchanged, these regimes could easily sell their supplies to less discerning buyers at more or less the same price. Moreover, sanctions against oil-exporting countries are notoriously ineffective. Between 1990 and 2003, the UN Security Council imposed severe restrictions on Iraq's oil sales, but these failed to loosen Saddam's grip on power. More limited sanctions have also failed to dislodge oil-dependent regimes in Iran, Libya, and Myanmar (also called Burma). If global demand for oil grows, sanctions will be even less effective. The United States and other petroleum importers could also push for greater transparency in oil markets, which would undermine the authoritarians' ability to buy off their citizens and use state funds for graft. In a joint 2010 study, Revenue Watch Institute and Transparency International found that 29 out of 41 oil-, gas-, and mineral-producing countries disclosed only "partial" or "scant" information about their resource revenues. The international community has already taken some important steps to correct this. In 2002, then British Prime Minister Tony Blair launched the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which called on resource-rich countries to publicly disclose their income. Today, the EITI is an independent organization, with some three dozen country members, including Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iraq, and Nigeria. Meanwhile, one provision of the United States' 2010 financial reform law compels companies registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to report what they pay to governments, on a country-by-country and project-by-project basis, for access to oil, gas, and minerals. This requirement will make it tougher for oil-exporting countries to hide their revenues, and hence government waste and corruption, from their citizens. But more can and should be done. First, the European Union and other oil-consuming regions should follow the United States' lead and require all companies to disclose their payments to foreign governments for access to natural resources. The G-8 endorsed such a measure at its May summit in Deauville, France, but has no power to compel member states to follow through. They must act on their own. Also, the London-based International Accounting Standards Board, which sets accounting procedures for over 120 countries, needs updating. Under the board's current rules, petroleum and mining companies are not required to reveal their payments to foreign governments. Meanwhile, the international community should encourage oil-producing countries to open up their national oil companies. For example, countries could be encouraged to list their national oil companies on the New York Stock Exchange. By joining the exchange, they would gain access to new investors but would also become subject to the United States' new disclosure standards. The international community should also encourage producers to follow the principles set by the Natural Resource Charter, which was drafted by a group of scholars and practitioners to help citizens and governments use their countries' resource wealth in more socially beneficial ways. Oil-producing countries could give shares in national oil companies or an annual cash dividend to all their citizens, as Alaska has done since the 1970s. If well designed, such schemes could be politically popular and satisfy citizens' demands for sharing in the wealth of their oil-rich countries -- and encourage citizens to scrutinize their governments' finances. Since the 1970s, the oil-producing states have remained far less democratic than other states. In the Middle East, oil wealth has made monarchs and politicians strong and kept citizens weak. So far, even the Arab uprisings this year have failed to change the situation. Meanwhile, thanks to high oil prices, rising global demand for oil, and improved drilling technology, between 15 and 20 low-income countries have recently begun, or are about to begin, exporting oil and natural gas. Most of them are in sub-Saharan Africa. If they mismanage their revenues, they may well fall prey to the oil curse, too. But geology need not be destiny: for both the new oil producers and the old ones, oil is a greater obstacle to democratic reforms when autocrats are able to keep their finances hidden. The money that U.S. consumers send to the oil states helps empower their governments. By reducing U.S. oil consumption and making oil payments more transparent, Americans can start to empower those states' citizens instead.//

//**The spread of democracy is key to stopping nuclear war, terrorism, ethnic conflict, and environmental destruction.**//
//**Diamond 95-** Larry Diamond, Hoover Fellow @ Stanford, Fmr. Advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, December 95//
//On any list of the most important potential threats to world order and national security in the coming decade, these six should figure prominently: a hostile, expansionist Russia; a hostile, expansionist China; the spread of fundamentalist Islamic, anti-Western regimes; the spread of political terrorism from all sources; sharply increased immigration pressures; and ethnic conflict that escalates into large-scale violence, civil war, refugee flows, state collapse, and general anarchy. Some of these potential threats interact in significant ways with one another, but they all share a common underlying connection. In each instance, the development of democracy is an important prophylactic, and in some cases the only long- term protection, against disaster. A HOSTILE, EXPANSIONIST RUSSIA Chief among the threats to the security of Europe, the United States, and Japan would be the reversion of Russia--with its still very substantial nuclear, scientific, and military prowess--to a hostile posture toward the West. Today, the Russian state (insofar as it continues to exist) appears perched on the precipice of capture by ultranationalist, anti-Semitic, neo-imperialist forces seeking a new era of pogroms, conquest, and "greatness." These forces feed on the weakness of democratic institutions, the divisions among democratic forces, and the generally dismal economic and political state of the country under civilian, constitutional rule. Numerous observers speak of "Weimar Russia." As in Germany in the 1920s, the only alternative to a triumph of fascism (or some related "ism" deeply hostile to freedom and to the West) is the development of an effective democratic order. Now, as then, this project must struggle against great historical and political odds, and it seems feasible only with international economic aid and support for democratic forces and institutions. A HOSTILE, EXPANSIONIST CHINA In China, the threat to the West emanates from success rather than failure and is less amenable to explicit international assistance and inducement. Still, a China moving toward democracy--gradually constructing a real constitutional order, with established ground rules for political competition and succession and civilian control over the military--seems a much better prospect to be a responsible player on the regional and international stage. Unfair trade practices, naval power projection, territorial expansion, subversion of neighboring regimes, and bullying of democratic forces in Hong Kong and Taiwan are all more likely the more China resists political liberalization. So is a political succession crisis that could disrupt incremental patterns of reform and induce competing power players to take risks internationally to advance their power positions at home. A China that is building an effective rule of law seems a much better prospect to respect international trading rules that mandate protection for intellectual property and forbid the use of prison labor. And on these matters of legal, electoral, and institutional development, international actors can help. THE SPREAD OF ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISM Increasingly, Europeans and Americans worry about the threat from fundamentalist Islam. But fundamentalist movements do not mobilize righteous anger and absolute commitment in a vacuum. They feed on the utter failure of decadent political systems to meet the most elementary expectations for material progress and social justice. Some say the West must choose between corrupt, repressive regimes that are at least secular and pro-Western and Islamic fundamentalist regimes that will be no less repressive, but anti-Western. That is a false choice in Egypt today, as it was in Iran or Algeria--at least until their societies became so polarized as to virtually obliterate the liberal center. It is precisely the corruption, arrogance, oppression, and gross inefficacy of ruling regimes like the current one in Egypt that stimulate the Islamic fundamentalist alternative. Though force may be needed--and legitimate--to meet an armed challenge, history teaches that decadent regimes cannot hang on forever through force alone. In the long run, the only reliable bulwark against revolution or anarchy is good governance--and that requires far-reaching political reform. In Egypt and some other Arab countries, such reform would entail a gradual program of political liberalization that counters corruption, reduces state interference in the economy, responds to social needs, and gives space for moderate forces in civil society to build public support and understanding for further liberalizing reforms. In Pakistan and Turkey, it would mean making democracy work: stamping out corruption, reforming the economy, mobilizing state resources efficiently to address social needs, devolving power, guaranteeing the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, and--not least-- reasserting civilian control over the military. In either case, the fundamentalist challenge can be met only by moving (at varying speeds) toward, not away from, democracy. POLITICAL TERRORISM Terrorism and immigration pressures also commonly have their origins in political exclusion, social injustice, and bad, abusive, or tyrannical governance. Overwhelmingly, the sponsors of international terrorism are among the world's most authoritarian regimes: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Sudan. And locally within countries, the agents of terrorism tend to be either the fanatics of antidemocratic, ideological movements or aggrieved ethnic and regional minorities who have felt themselves socially marginalized and politically excluded and insecure: Sri Lanka's Tamils, Turkey's Kurds, India's Sikhs and Kashmiris. To be sure, democracies must vigorously mobilize their legitimate instruments of law enforcement to counter this growing threat to their security. But a more fundamental and enduring assault on international terrorism requires political change to bring down zealous, paranoiac dictatorships and to allow aggrieved groups in all countries to pursue their interests through open, peaceful, and constitutional means. As for immigration, it is true that people everywhere are drawn to prosperous, open, dynamic societies like those of the United States, Canada, and Western Europe. But the sources of large (and rapid) immigration flows to the West increasingly tend to be countries in the grip of civil war, political turmoil, economic disarray, and poor governance: Vietnam, Cuba, Haiti, Central America, Algeria. And in Mexico, authoritarianism, corruption, and social injustice have held back human development in ways that have spawned the largest sustained flow of immigrants to any Western country--a flow that threatens to become a floodtide if the Zedillo government cannot rebuild Mexico's economy and societal consensus around authentic democatic reform. In other cases--Ethiopia, Sudan, Nigeria, Afghanistan--immigration to the West has been modest only because of the greater logistical and political difficulties. However, in impoverished areas of Africa and Asia more remote from the West, disarray is felt in the flows of refugees across borders, hardly a benign development for world order. Of course, population growth also heavily drives these pressures. But a common factor underlying all of these crisis-ridden emigration points is the absence of democracy. And, strikingly, populations grow faster in authoritarian than democratic regimes.<span style="color: #000000;">4</span>ETHNIC CONFLICT Apologists for authoritarian rule--as in Kenya and Indonesia--are wont to argue that <span style="color: #000000;">multiparty electoral competition breeds ethnic rivalry and polarization, while strong central control keeps the lid on conflict. But when multiple ethnic and national identities are forcibly suppressed, the lid may violently pop when the regime falls apart. </span>The fate of Yugoslavia, or of Rwanda, dramatically refutes the canard that authoritarian rule is a better means for containing ethnic conflict. Indeed, so does the recent experience of Kenya, where ethnic hatred, land grabs, and violence have been deliberately fostered by the regime of President Daniel arap Moi in a desperate bid to divide the people and thereby cling to power. Overwhelmingly, theory and evidence show that the path to peaceful management of ethnic pluralism lies not through suppressing ethnic identities and superimposing the hegemony of one group over others. Eventually, such a formula is bound to crumble or be challenged violently. Rather<span style="color: #000000;">, sustained interethnic moderation and peace follow from the frank recognition of plural identities, legal protection for group and individual rights, devolution of power to various localities and regions, and political institutions that encourage bargaining and accommodation at the center. Such institutional provisions and protections are </span>not only significantly more likely under democracy, they are <span style="color: #000000;">only possible with some considerable degree of democracy.5</span>OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. <span style="color: #000000;">Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. </span>Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. LESSONS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY The experience of this century offers important lessons<span style="color: #000000;">. Countries that govern themselves in a truly democratic fashion do not go to war with one another. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. Democratic governments do not ethnically "cleanse" their own populations, </span>and they are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies do not sponsor terrorism against one another. They do not build weapons of mass destruction to use on or to threaten one another. Democratic countries form more reliable, open, and enduring trading partnerships. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment. They are more environmentally responsible because they must answer to their own citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments. They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law<span style="color: #000000;">, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and pr**o**sperity can be built. </span>//
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 3 is Russian Co-op__**</span></span>
//**It’s normal means**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK
Meanwhile, the Russian Federation continues to increase throughput along the NSR.As the Barents Observer reported in late January 2012, “This year’s season on the NSR was special in many ways. Not only was the route accessible about one month longer than usual, but it also had the highest number ever of vessels in transit from Murmansk to another country”.[6] In a more recent Barents Observer article, Gazprom and Sovcomflot´s executives suggested “the relevance of LNG shipping along the NSRto the Asian-Pacific region [is] growing quickly”.[7] Clearly then, the Russian Federation expects to make the NSR a viable option between northern Pacific ports and northern Atlantic ports. There are dissenters who would suggest Arctic shipping will not be as safe and profitable as Russian Federation leaders would suggest. In a recent Insurance Journal article entitled, “Arctic Ice Melt Lifts Hopes for Russian Maritime Trade”, authors Albina Kovalyova & Alissa de Carbonnel opined, “industry analysts and mariners say ice floes, narrow straits, shallow waters, poor infrastructure and stormy winters continue to loom as obstacles to safe and profitable shipping through the polar shortcut”.[8] Notwithstanding, Russia continues to demonstrate that the NSR is a viable shipping route. Two years ago the Russian Federation announced it would send five vessels of different classes through the NSR as a proof of principle, meeting the mark. They then publicly stated they would increase that number fivefold. This year reportedly 34 vessels transited the NSR. If increases were to continue at current calculations, within five years, however unlikely, transits would exceed over one hundred thousand. Regardless of how many vessels actually transit the route in coming years, the Russian Federation’s fulfillment of their stated goals should lead observers, and especially policy makers, to believe the NSR will become a major Sea Line of Communication in the not too distant future. Returning to the topic at hand, there are essentially two types of VTSs, manned and unmanned. The Vardø VTS is manned due to the heavy traffic that transits along Norway’s West coast and the need to safeguard critical state enterprises. Whereas, the few number of ships currently transiting the Bering Strait today may make it feasible to have an unmanned VTS until vessel traffic warrants an upgrade. An unmanned system would likely be monitored remotely both from Russia and the United States, using sensors to track and control Bering Strait traffic. Additionally, a traffic separation plan must be submitted and approved by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). For example, should north bound traffic transit east of Little Diomede Island and southbound traffic transit west of Big Diomede? These are details that must be negotiated between the United States and the Russian Federation. Clearly gas and oil traffic are expected to increase in the near-term, evidenced by Shell’s CEO Peter Voser’s 31 January Fox Business interview. "For us the focus is in Alaska and to some extent in Greenland, although in the coming years there may also be opportunities in Russia," stated Voser.[9] Shell is not the only company expecting to profit from Arctic oil and gas. Norway’s Statoil, Total, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips are all set to exploit the reported 90 billion barrels of oil, up to 50 trillion cubic meters of natural gas and 44 billion barrels of natural gas liquids that the 2008 US Geological Survey suggests are in the Arctic. Therefore, it is essential to mitigate the accompanying risk of increased Bering Strait vessel traffic by resourcing a VTS.

**That solves relations and Arctic security issues**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span> || RT)
Internationally, the resulting level of cooperation ensuing from bilateral negotiations between the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US State Department could serve to further reset the US-Russian relations. Potentially, the Russian Duma may be encouraged to ratify the US-Russia Maritime Boundary. Environmentalists may be less concerned about the risk of oil and gas spills. The US Coast Guard and the Russian Federation Border Guard could better enforce international and national laws. Insurance companies like Lloyd’s of London who hold maritime liabilities may be more inclined to reduce shipping companies rates, saving companies who use the NSR the money that can then be reinvested. Alternately, as this international waterway opens to international trade the threats to US and Russian security will increase. Having a national presence at the gateway to the Arctic could mitigate potential criminal or hostile acts and deter illicit activity. Finally, having an International Maritime Organization certified Bering Strait VTS fulfills the pledge made by Arctic nations to enhance Arctic marine safety, to protect the marine environment and expand Arctic marine infrastructure.

**Scenario 1 is Cold Geopolitics**
**Arctic issues are the most probable and biggest 21st century threat- US action towards multilateralism is necessary**
**Borgerson 08-** the visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and an adjunct senior research scholar at Columbia University (Scott G., 2008, “Arctic Meltdown”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63222/scott-g-borgerson/arctic-meltdown?page=show</span> || RT)
Despite the melting icecap's potential to transform global shipping and __[[#|energy]]__ markets, Arctic issues are largely ignored at senior levels in the U.S. State Department and the U.S. National Security Council. The most recent executive statement on the Arctic dates to 1994 and does not mention the retreating ice. But the Arctic's strategic location and immense resource wealth make it an important national interest. Although the melting Arctic holds great promise, it also poses grave dangers. The combination of new shipping routes, trillions of dollars in possible oil and gas resources, and a poorly defined picture of state ownership makes for a toxic brew. The situation is especially dangerous because there are currently no overarching political or legal structures that can provide for the orderly development of the region or mediate political disagreements over Arctic resources or sea-lanes. The Arctic has always been frozen; as ice turns to water, it is not clear which rules should apply. The rapid melt is also rekindling numerous interstate rivalries and attracting energy-hungry newcomers, such as China, to the region. The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories, such as the desolate but resource-rich Spratly Islands, where multiple states claim sovereignty but no clear picture of ownership exists. There are few legal frameworks that offer guidance. The Arctic Council does exist to address environmental issues, but it has remained silent on the most pressing challenges facing the region because the United States purposefully emasculated it at birth, in 1996, by prohibiting it from addressing security concerns. Many observers argue that UNCLOS is the correct tool to manage the thawing Arctic. The convention provides mechanisms for states to settle boundary disputes and submit claims for additional resources beyond their exclusive economic zones. Furthermore, UNCLOS sets aside the resources in the high seas as the common heritage of humankind, it allows states bordering ice-covered waters to enforce more stringent environmental regulations, and it defines which seaways are the sovereign possessions of states and which international passages are open to unfettered navigation. However, UNCLOS cannot be seamlessly applied to the Arctic. The region's unique geographic circumstances do not allow for a neat application of this legal framework. The Arctic is home to a number of vexing problems that, taken in their entirety, make it a special case. These unresolved challenges include carving up the world's longest uncharted and most geologically complex continental shelf among five states with competing claims, resolving differences between Canada and the rest of the world over how to legally define the Northwest Passage, demarcating maritime borders between the United States and Canada in the Beaufort Sea and between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea, and regulating vessels shielded behind flags of convenience (which obscure the true origin and ownership of the vessels) as they travel across numerous national jurisdictions. Finally, increased oil and gas exploration and the trans-Arctic shipping that comes with it will pose serious environmental risks. Oil tankers present a particularly grave environmental threat, as illustrated by three recent oil spills in the much safer waters of the San Francisco Bay, the Black Sea, and the Yellow Sea. There are also a handful of unresolved issues at play in the Arctic that are not covered under UNCLOS. Between 1958 and 1992, Russia dumped 18 nuclear reactors into the Arctic Ocean, several of them still fully loaded with nuclear fuel. This hazard still needs to be cleaned up. Furthermore, the Arctic region is home to one million indigenous people, who deserve to have a say in the region's future, especially as regards their professed right to continue hunting bowhead whales, their safety alongside what will become bustling shipping lanes, and their rightful share of the economic benefits that Arctic development will bring. With the prospect of newfound energy wealth, there is also growing talk of Greenland petitioning Denmark for political independence. Finally, there has been an explosion in polar tourism, often involving ships unsuited for navigation in the region. Last year, 140 cruise ships carried 4,000 intrepid travelers for holidays off Greenland's icy coast, a dangerous journey in largely uncharted waters. Although it is tempting to look to the past for solutions to the Arctic conundrum, no perfect analogy exists. The 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which froze all territorial claims and set aside the continent for scientific research, provides some lessons, but it concerns a continent rather than an ocean. Moreover, Antarctica is far removed from major trade routes, and negotiations unfolded in the entirely different context of the Cold War. As a body of water that links several large economies, the Mediterranean Sea is somewhat similar to the Arctic Ocean, but its littoral states have always had clearer historical claims, and it has never been covered with ice, at least not in human history. There is simply no comparable historical example of a saltwater space with such ambiguous ownership, such a dramatically mutating seascape, and such extraordinary economic promise. The region's remarkable untapped resource wealth and unrealized potential to become a fast lane between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans makes it a key emerging pressure point in international affairs. At this critical juncture, decisions about how to manage this rapidly changing region will likely be made within a diplomatic and legal vacuum unless the United States steps forward to lead the international community toward a multilateral solution.

**Arctic conflict has a low threshold and big escalation**
**Staples 09**- Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years. In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

**Scenario 2 is Syria**
**The melting Arctic is increasing Russian tensions and militarism**
**Kramnik 12-** Editor at the __[[#|Russian]]__ Defence Policy (Ilya, 4/19/12, “NATO, Russia, Stage Arctic War Games”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_04_19/72301024/</span> || RT)
As global warming is thawing permafrost around the Earth's poles, the Arctic is gradually emerging from under the eternal ice as a new geopolitical arena, a focal point of interest and concern to the major world powers. The conflict of economic interests is already on the horizon and won’t probably be resolved any soon, although military clashes remain an equally hazy perspective. In the past, only scientist and journalists seemed to be concerned about the “opening up” of the Arctic. Now, politicians and the military are also turning their gaze to this region, which rising temperatures have made more accessible than ever. The global media and especially local agencies are [is] bristling with threats of a new Cold War in the Arctic, while major northern states are meeting to discuss regional security. One of such meetings was held by military chiefs of all Arctic powers in Canada on April 12, 13. It was attended, among others, by Gen. Nikolai Makarov, Chief of Russia’s Armed Forces General Staff. The meeting took place at a time when the icy region was buzzing with activity, with both Russia and NATO engaged in war games beyond the Arctic Circle. In March, NATO wrapped up its Cold Response maneuvers on the stretch from Sweden to Canada, with 16,300 troops engaged in this unprecedented military exercise. The war game was only clouded by a crash, when a Norwegian C-130J plane rammed into the western slope of the Swedish mountain, Kebnekaise, killing five servicemen. The Russian military kept apace, staging their own maneuvers. Its 200th motor rifle brigade from Murmansk tested the T-80 tanks, which are believed to be best-suited for the Arctic climate, with their gas turbine engines, which are much easier to start in the cold weather than the traditional diesel ones. The Russian Northern Fleet, as well as Air Defense planes, choppers and marine aviation participated in the drills. The Air Forces also trained in Russia’s northern reaches. On April 9-15, Russia staged Ladoga 2012 maneuvers at the Karelian Besovets air base with 50 choppers and aircraft, which engaged and shot down over 150 air targets. In their war games, NATO and Russia are both pursuing one and the same goal. As rising temperatures are freeing larger and larger areas of the Arctic from its icy shackles, all regional key players are flexing their military muscle to score psychological points in the information battlespace, the main arena of modern diplomatic conflicts.

**Weak relations make Putin support Assad- Strong relations won’t**
**Brooks 12** (Peter, Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies, “US-Russia: From ‘Reset’ to Regret”, June 19, 2012, the Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2012/06/us-russia-from-reset-to-regret)//SK//
//There’s little doubt from the reporting of the lackluster meeting between President Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin at the G-20 in Mexico yesterday that the White House’s Russia policy is moving from “reset” to “regret.” Of course, we’ve seen this coming for awhile — despite lots of wishful thinking on the administration’s part. Team Obama’s hope over the last three-plus years has been that Russia would become a partner of the United States on a range of international issues if ties could only be “reset,” pruning away thorny tensions that have grown in the relationship. In other words, if we could just get relations chummy enough, the Kremlin and the White House would become a dynamic duo, tackling a growing list of world problems. So much for that plan. One key focus of the “reset” policy was getting Russia to help stop Iran’s expanding nuclear (weapons) program. While supporting some added pressure on Tehran, Moscow hasn’t really come on board. This week’s P5+1 meeting (the latest in a seemingly endless series) in Moscow on Iranian nukes probably won’t change that. In fact, after the supposed “reset,” Russia finished building Iran’s first nuclear reactor and provided fuel for it. If Tehran doesn’t return the fuel rods, it could reprocess them for plutonium, providing another avenue for making nukes. The Russians have been continually cranky about US-led missile defense in Europe, too, seeing it as being aimed at their nuclear deterrent rather than at the growing Iranian missile threat. The griping didn’t stop even after Obama unilaterally abrogated the deal to put antimissile sites in Poland and the Czech Republic. Not long ago, a senior Russian general rattled a Soviet-like saber, threatening a pre-emptive strike on US-NATO missile defenses in Eastern Europe, if necessary. Another flashpoint is Syria. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton last week blasted the Russians with both barrels for sending weapons to their longtime friend, the Syrian regime.Even with a few words of support for a democratic transition in Syria at the G-20, Moscow has frustrated Washington’s UN efforts to punishSyria’s Basher, er, Bashar Assad.(The Kremlin is reportedly crabby about Libya, believing the mission crept beyond its original UN mandate.) Russia continues to befriend countries of concern, too: Venezuela is a rapacious buyer of Russian arms; Moscow held its first-ever naval exercises with Beijing in April in the Yellow Sea, waters China considers “sensitive” to US military operations. Team Obama has tried to lump Russia in with its claimed foreign-policy successes, citing the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty and Moscow’s provision of supply and withdrawal routes in and out of Afghanistan as proof positive of better relations. Of course, many see New START as having advantaged the Russians, since a majority of the cuts came from us. The Russia-Afghanistan road is worrisome because it’s much more expensive than through Pakistan (currently closed) and gives Moscow leverage over us, especially when we pull out. Critics say we’ve also given ground on a Russian sphere of influence in some parts of the former Soviet Union’s stompin’ grounds — and Obama’s certainly been pretty much mum on political and social liberty in Russia. Yet the president may still be hoping for a “reset” redo in a second term. Who can forget his open-mike moment this spring, offering now-former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev more flexibility on missile defense after the US election? Isn’t that comforting? The fact is Putin wants the US to get out of the way of Russia’s re-emergence — but is willing to cooperate on issues that benefit him politically or Moscow in general.That’s really nothing new. So it’s probably a good time toforget the reset — and instead embrace a pragmatic policy that sees Russia for what it is, not what Team Obama hopes against hope it will be.//

//**An emboldened Assad will increase violence**//
//**Shaw ’12-** Political analyst and writer in the US and in the UK (William, 2/6/12, “Emboldened Syrian Regime Steps Up Violence”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://iwpr.net/report-news/emboldened-syrian-regime-steps-violence|__http://iwpr.net/report-news/emboldened-syrian-regime-steps-violence__]]</span> || RT)//
//A newly emboldened Damascus intends to escalate its violent crackdown in the belief it is safe from western intervention, experts warn. Opposition activists warn that events since Russia and China vetoed an already watered-down United Nations Security Council resolution on February 4 indicate that President Bashar al-Assad is determined to seek a military solution to the ten-month-old uprising. Violence has increased since the UN vote, particularly in the western city of Homs which has been hammered by artillery and machine gun fire for nearly two weeks. As of February 9, more than 300 people had been killed in Homs, according to Human Rights Watch, and troops have also attacked the southern city of Deraa, where the uprising began last March. “Assad has indicated to Russia that [his government ] can crush the rebellion, and Russia is giving it time to do so,” Malik al-Abdeh, the London-based editor-in-chief of the opposition satellite channel Barada TV, told IWPR. “It’s quite obvious [Assad] believes he can crush this rebellion. He’s tough enough and thick-skinned enough to survive.” Ausama Monajed, advisor to the secretary general of the Syrian National Council, the main opposition coalition based abroad, added, “Russia further alienated the Syrian people for the sake of a relationship with Assad and the regime. Syrians will always remember who supported the people and who supported the regime.” The UN resolution would have endorsed an Arab League plan for Assad to stand down ahead of elections, but a second attempt at a large-scale diplomatic move now seems unlikely. Speaking at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, IISS, last week, Emile Hokayem, senior fellow for regional security at the British think tank, said UN members believed the resolution had been toned down enough to win approval “The reality is, the West, Turkey and the Gulf states did not have a back-up plan in case of a veto,” Hokayem predicted that the Arab League’s influence would also likely wane in the coming months, as Qatar – which has been energetic and outspoken on the Syria crisis – gives up the rotating presidency. Although the US dismissed as “laughable” Assad’s announcement this week of a referendum on a new constitution and the promise of multiparty elections, it too seems likely to remain at arms’ length from the deteriorating situation. Speaking at the same IISS event, Dana Allin, the institute’s senior fellow for US foreign policy and Transatlantic affairs, said that while President Barack Obama believes in humanitarian intervention, he generally wants to end wars rather than engage in new ones. Syria is unlikely to feature large in the Republican presidential primaries. “I’ve not seen a big drumbeat for intervention in Syria,” Allin said, although he noted that this could change if the situation got rapidly worse. International attention is now focusing on establishing an informal diplomatic alliance of “friends of Syria” that would continue to push for UN action at the General Assembly and Human Rights Council. Some expect Turkey to play an important role, though it is likely to want major backing before it takes a strong stand with Syria and its supporters in Tehran. The Turkish response has so far been muted, Barada TV editor Abdeh said. In the meantime, with Assad’s assault on protestors continuing, parts of the opposition are becoming more insistent that citizens need to resort to violence themselves. “We all know that the international community fails to protect civilians in Syria. The only way is for civilians to embrace arms,” one opposition activist told IWRR on condition of anonymity. The opposition activists said that aside from senior figures who belong to Assad’s Alawite community, much of the army could defect if the safety of family members was guaranteed. “Most of the army people are against Assad,” he said. “If the army cracks, it will crack really quickly.”//

//**That exacerbates tensions and leads to proxy wars and sectarian violence**//
//**Enders and Landay 12** (David and Jonathan, “Syria splits along sectarian lines, shaking Mideast”, Originally published March 3, 2012 at 2:52 PM | Page modified March 3, 2012 at 5:24 PM, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2017659548_syriadivide04.html)//SK
Then the leather-jacketed member of the local Free Syrian Army added, "The majority of the Shiites and Alawites are with the government." Abdo's comments underscored how sectarian divisions are hardening a year after the outbreak of the uprising against Assad, whose scorched-earth crackdown on what began as peaceful protests for democratic reform has ignited a Sunni-dominated insurgency that's drawing in Sunni jihadis from beyond Syria's borders. More ominously, the sectarian hatred is bleeding into a region seething with political and religious tensions. Outraged by a death toll estimated at more than 7,500 mostly Sunni Syrians — and apparently frustrated by the lack of action taken by a 60-nation "Friends of Syria" conference in Tunisia last month — Sunni regimes, led by Saudi Arabia, have publicly called for providing arms to the insurgents, whose nominal leaders are based in Sunni-governed Turkey. Lebanon and majority-Shiite Iran — one of Assad's main arms suppliers — are standing firmly by the Syrian leader, whose regime and security forces are run by his minority Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiism. Iraq, where the 2003 U.S.-led invasion replaced a minority Sunni dictatorship with majority Shiite rule, has withheld criticism of Assad and declined to back an Arab League peace plan calling for him to step down. The alignments appear to be confirming the worst fears of politicians, experts and the region's people: Syria has become the latest battleground in the centuries-old feud between Islam's main branches, with the violence threatening to evolve into a proxy conflict between the branches' rival standard-bearers, Saudi Arabia and Iran. It also could reignite sectarian mayhem in adjacent Lebanon, fuel the Shiite-Sunni tensions wracking Iraq and inflame instability elsewhere. That could include the tiny Persian Gulf nation of Bahrain, the headquarters of the U.S. 5th Fleet, where the Saudi-backed Sunni monarchy has been persecuting majority Shiites who are demanding democratic reform. "It's the proverbial gathering storm," said a senior Middle Eastern diplomat in Washington, D.C., who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue. "It's not about Syria. It's about the Shias and Sunnis." "Sectarian tension currently runs high in Syria," Iraq's prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, who's a Shiite, said in a Saudi newspaper interview published Thursday. "Syria is on our borders, and if a sectarian civil war erupts there, it will be moved directly to Iraq and other countries such as Jordan and Lebanon." A Sunni member of the Iraqi Parliament, Mudher al-Janabi, said: "The Iraqi government cannot abandon Assad. ... The sectarian bond is too strong." The United States has aligned with the Sunnis, and not only because of what the Obama administration decries as Assad's wanton slaughter of civilians. Assad's fall also would deal a strategic blow to Iran by eliminating its only Arab ally and closing the conduit through which Tehran ships missiles that Hezbollah, the Shiite militia movement that dominates Lebanon, aims at Israel. Abdo, the rebel fighter, who used a nom de guerre, said the Homs region began growing more polarized soon after the anti-Assad protests erupted last March. Minority populations fled mixed villages in an echo of what occurred around Baghdad as Iraq's civil war escalated in 2005. "It began two or three months after the start of the revolution," he recounted. "If the Sunnis are the minority in a place, they leave. If they are the majority, they stay." On the battlefield, rebels trade sectarian barbs over the radio with the Syrian army, saying things such as, "(expletive) Hassan Nasrallah," the charismatic leader of Hezbollah. The tensions are palpable along Lebanon's northern border with Syria. After crossing into Lebanon's Bekaa Valley last week, the first question a group of Syrian refugees asked a Lebanese man they encountered was, "Are you Sunni" Predominantly Sunni northern Lebanon, where animosity over the Syrian army's 1976-2005 occupation lingers and Sunnis and Alawites clashed last month, is a bulwark of support for the Syrian rebels. Sympathizers harbor refugees and smuggle humanitarian aid and light weapons to the disparate groups of military deserters and civilians that make up the Free Syrian Army. "The Hezbollah mindset, the Iranian mindset, the Alawite mindset is not just based on existence only. It's based on killing the other, exterminating the other," said Imad Khalid, a Sunni cleric in Wadi Khalid, near the Syrian border. "If I was in charge, I'd not fight against Israel. For now my enemy is Hezbollah, my enemy is Iran and what Bashar Assad is doing." Amin Taba, a Beirut-based Syrian activist who sends humanitarian aid into Syria, said that in the uprising's early days, the pro-democracy marches included Sunnis and Alawites, as well as Christians. But the longer the conflict rages, he said, the deeper the Sunni-Shiite chasm will grow. "Because of the situation, people are going to resort to mullahs," he said. The divisions also are hardening across the region, with Sunni Arab governments, eager to eliminate Iran's chief Arab ally, making it clear they intend to intensify their backing of the opposition. "We cannot abandon our religious and moral position toward the situation in Syria," Saudi King Abdullah told Russian President Dmitry Medvedev in a telephone conversation Feb. 22, according to Saudi Arabia's official news agency. Two days later, Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said he thought arming the rebels was "an excellent idea" because "they have to protect themselves." On Monday, denouncing Assad, Kuwait's Parliament also recommended arming his opponents. The same day, the tiny Persian Gulf oil sheikdom of Qatar, which played a central role in arming the Libyan rebels who toppled Moammar Gadhafi, indicated that it would do so. "We should do whatever necessary to help them, including giving them weapons to defend themselves," said the Qatari prime minister, Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani. "This uprising in Syria now (has lasted) one year. For 10 months, it was peaceful. Nobody was carrying weapons, nobody was doing anything. And Bashar continued killing them." In an apparently coordinated move, the Paris-based Syrian National Council, the internationally recognized opposition coalition, said Thursday that it was forming a military council to unify the Free Syrian Army under a single command that would help funnel weapons to the rebels. Murhaf Jouejati, a member of the Syrian National Council's foreign-relations bureau who teaches at the National Defense University in Washington, D.C., told McClatchy Newspapers that he thinks the Saudis and Qataris are more likely to provide money for arms purchases than actual weapons. "I think they are going to facilitate this, certainly, by providing money for the Free Syrian Army to buy its equipment where it can," Jouejati said. He noted that arms are "plentiful on the black market," including guns being sold by Syrian troops, an estimated 80 percent of whom are Sunni conscripts. Some experts worry Iran could step up its support for Assad as the Saudis and other Sunni Arab regimes intensify their backing for the rebels. That could include aiding Bahrain's Shiite opposition — which has resisted Iranian help so far — and instigating the restive Shiite majority in Saudi Arabia's oil-producing Eastern Province. "This portends very bad things for the region," said Vali Nasr, a former State Department adviser who teaches at Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "If this gets worse and becomes a full-scale civil war ... this will spill over. Other countries are vulnerable ... and could end up having a bigger, broader conflict in the Gulf between Saudi Arabia and Iran."

**Civil war spills over**
**Brooks 12** (Peter, Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies, “The Syrian Tipping Point”, The Heritage Foundation, August 1, 2012, http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2012/08/the-syrian-tipping-point)//SK//
//The Syrian bloodbath has taken almost 20,000 lives over nearly 17 months and driven hundreds of thousands from their homes — but it won’t go on forever. The question is: When will the fight between the rebels and the Bashar al-Assad regime reach the tipping point, pushing the civil war in one direction or the other? It could come at any time, but will likely be based on a couple of factors. First, toss out the notion of a UN-sponsored (or other) peace plan allowing Assad to quietly hit the bricks in favor of elections. Both sides are too determined to win to agree to any diplomatic deal. It’s the level of outside assistance to the regime or the rebels that will make the difference in the battle for Syria. Up to this point, interested parties have played a low-key role in the uprising, but that could be changing. The make-or-break help could come in the form of organizing the opposition politically — not to mention militarily. The anti-regime politicians and fighters are divided now along a number of fault lines, severely limiting their effectiveness. Gulf states such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar are reportedly funneling money through Turkey to rebel groups, providing the means to buy arms and pay foreign fighters — and boosting the odds that these factions will come out on top should the regime fall. News reports say the rebels may now have some man-portable surface-to-air missiles, which could be used against regime helicopter gunships or transport aircraft that move troops from hot spot to hot spot. (Of course, there’s no telling how long it will take the rebels to learn to use them effectively.) The Saudis, Qataris and others have a keen interest in replacing the crowd running the show in Damascus. Not only would they knock off Iran’s most important ally, but they might also be able to put their team in charge. Tehran isn’t likely to stand idly by, considering its interest in preserving its pals’ place in Damascus. Losing Syria would mean the end of an ally and the loss of the main conduit to Hezbollah in Lebanon — not to mention a major setback to Iran’s efforts to dominate a swath of the Middle East. Reports indicate that Syrian and Iranian officials are consulting regularly on the situation; Tehran is believed to be supplying Revolutionary Guard and Qods Force advisers as well as weapons to Assad’s forces. Hezbollah may also be operating in Syria. Another key factor will be Assad-regime and loyalist defections. Some senior military and government figures have already switched, but more important will be changes of allegiance by military units like the Republican Guard or among the Syrian army of nearly 300,000 troops. Assad’s forces could boost the desertion rate by vastly increasing the bloodshed against innocents, losing expanses of territory or using Syria’s vast chemical-weapons arsenal against the people, which is possible, but unlikely until things turn more dire for the regime. Unfortunately, as it looks now, it doesn’t appear that we — or the West — will be a big player in the struggle for Syria, despite breaking news of possible new, non-lethal US support to the rebels. That’s really troubling, since Syria is of strategic importance to US and Western interests. Others — notably the Turks, Saudis and Qataris — are filling the void left open by absent US leadership. Without big efforts to shape Syria’s outcome, we’re likely to be dealing with a really hacked-off Assad regime, a less-than-friendly Islamist government or complete chaos, where extremists could thrive — in a country with the Middle East’s largest chemical-weapons arsenal. None is an outcome we should be looking forward to.//

//**Collapse causes multiple scenarios for war**//
//**Bucci 12** (Steven, Steven P. Bucci, Ph.D., is a Senior Research Fellow in Defense and Homeland Security in the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation., “Counter-Proliferation Contingency Planning Is Needed for Syrian WMD”, The Heritage Foundation, July 23, 2012, http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2012/07/counter-proliferation-contingency-planning-is-needed-for-syrian-wmd)//SK
It is my view that the situation is Syria could collapse into chaos at any moment with many dangerous consequences for the surrounding region. A major concern is that chemical and biological weapons, or possibly even radioactive material from Syria’s nuclear program, could fall into the hands of terrorists. The U.S. needs to be planning for the worst-case scenario. Washington must closely monitor the evolving situation in Syria and make contingency plans in cooperation with allies to prevent the proliferation of such dangerous weapons. Syria’s Baathist dictatorship developed and stockpiled a lethal arsenal of chemical weapons including blister agents such as mustard gas and even more dangerous nerve agents (VX and Sarin), according to chemical weapons experts.[1] These chemical munitions can be delivered by artillery, rocket launchers, Scud ballistic missiles, and aircraft.Damascus also cooperated with North Korea (and probably Iran) to develop a covert nuclear program, which Israel partially destroyed in a 2007 air strike.[2] Radioactive materials from this program could become ingredients for a “dirty bomb” if they fall into the hands of terrorists. While little is known about the status of Syria’s nuclear facilities, U.S. officials believe that there are at least 50 chemical weapon production and storage facilities inside Syria.[3] In February of this year,. Director of National Intelligence James Clapper testified before Congress that the Syrian regime has maintained security at these sites, many of which are located in rural areas away from the urban areas that have seen the bulk of the fighting. Pentagon officials reportedly assess that the regime has shown no sign that it is considering the use of chemical weapons, nor has it relaxed its guard over WMD assets, which are the crown jewels of the regime’s arsenal.[4] As the situation inside Syria deteriorates, however, there is a growing possibility that the regime could lose control over facilities as its chain of command breaks down and weapons or dangerous materials fall into the hands of defectors, looters, various rival opposition groups, or terrorists.Those initially at risk would probably be local populations exposed to the haphazard handling of hazardous materials. The most significant danger for the U.S. and its allies is that these materials might be removed from the country and fashioned into improvised explosive devicesin the United States, Israel, Afghanistan, or elsewhere. Many believe that would require a degree of organization and infrastructure normally found in a nation-state, but some non-state actors could also leverage these materials. Iran already has the means and capability to do this, using Revolutionary Guards from the Quds Force or Hezbollah, its Lebanese terrorist surrogate. Al-Qaeda, which has a front inside Syria, and an expressed interest in conducting these kinds of attacks, could seek materials in Syria as well. This threat is not analogous to concerns during the run-up to the Iraq War. Then, the primary concern was that Saddam Hussein’s regime would use weapons against another country or deliberately transfer them to a terrorist group. Further, it was suspected at the time that Iraq might have far greater WMD capabilities and means to employ them than Syria currently has. The Syrian threat is different, and the U.S. response needs to be calculated according to a different set of risks and U.S. interests. Here, the principal danger is that the regime might lose control of materials and that they could find their way to terrorists if the regime were to collapse. The potential worst-case scenario is more like that which occurred in Libya, where the Qadhafi regime lost control of mustard gas supplies and huge stockpiles of modern weapons.While the mustard gas, stored in bulk containers, reportedly was secured, large numbers of arms, including Man-Portable Air Defense Systems (MANPADS), were seized by many different groups. Some reportedly may have been smuggled out of the country and could pose a threat to civil aviation.[5]

**Cooperation with Russia solves a peaceful Syria**
**Annan 12**(Kofi, a former UN secretary-general and a Nobel Peace Laureate and former special envoy of the UN and League of Arab States for Syria, “My departing advice on how to save Syria”, August 2, 2012 4:52 pm, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/2/b00b6ed4-dbc9-11e1-8d78-00144feab49a.html#axzz26mHxWMjm)//SK//
//For a challenge as great as this, only a united international community can compel both sides to engage in a peaceful political transition. But a political process is difficult, if not impossible, while all sides – within and without Syria – see opportunity to advance their narrow agendas by military means. International division means support for proxy agendas and the fuelling of violent competition on the ground. This is why I have consistently sought to help the international community to work together to end this destructive dynamic and to focus the minds of the parties on the ground into engaging in a political process. Early in my mandate we won international backing for this, with Security Council resolutions, which authorised UN military observers to deploy in Syria. After a ceasefire on April 12, contrary to some claims, the government’s shelling of civilian communities stopped, demonstrating the impact this unity could have. Sustained international support did not follow, however. The ceasefire quickly unravelled and the government, realising there would be no consequences if it returned to an overt military campaign, reverted to using heavy weapons on towns. In response I sought to re-energise the drive for unity in June by creating the international Action Group for Syria, establishing a framework for a transition to support Syrians’ efforts to move to a transitional governing body with full executive powers. Transition means a managed but full change of government – a change in who leads Syria and how. We left the meeting believing a Security Council resolution endorsing the group’s decision was assured – as the first in a series of measures that would signal a turning point. But since then, there has been no follow-through. Instead, there has been finger-pointing and name-calling in the Security Council. There are clear common interests among the regional and international powers in a managed political transition. A conflagration threatens an explosion in the region that could affect the rest of the world. But it takes leadership to compromise to overcome the destructive lure of national rivalries. Joint action requires bilateral and collective efforts by all countries with influence over the actors on the ground in Syria, to press upon the parties that a political solution is essential. For Russia, China and Iran this means they must take concerted efforts to persuade Syria’s leadership to change course and embrace a political transition, realising the current government has lost all legitimacy. A first move by the government is vital, as its intransigence and refusal to implement the six-point peace plan has been the greatest obstacle to any peaceful political process, ensuring the distrust of the opposition in proposals for a negotiated transition. For the US, UK, France, Turkey Saudi Arabia and Qatar this means pressing the opposition to embrace a fully inclusive political process – that will include communities and institutions currently associated with the government. This also means recognising that the future of Syria rises and falls on more than the fate of just one man. It is clear that President Bashar al-Assad must leave office. The greater focus, however, must be on measures and structures to secure a peaceful long-term transition to avoid a chaotic collapse. This is the most serious issue. The international community must shoulder its share of responsibility. None of this is possible, however, without genuine compromise on all sides. The stalemate means that everyone must shift: the government, opposition, international as well as regional powers. In this way, the international community can unlock an essential condition for a political process – a united international community, effectively and actively supportive of a peaceful transition to legitimate government. Syria can still be saved from the worst calamity. But this requires courage and leadership, most of all from the permanent members of the Security Council, including from Presidents Putin and Obama. Is ours an international community that will act in defence of the most vulnerable of our world, and make the necessary sacrifices to help? The coming weeks in Syria will tell.//

//__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 4 is the Coast Guard</span>**__//
//**Current arctic navigational operations fail and increase arctic terrorism and piracy.**//
//**Conley 12** (Heather, Heather Conley serves as director and senior fellow of the Europe Program at CSIS. Prior to joining CSIS, Ms. Conley served as senior adviser to the Center for European Policy Analysis, an independent, nonpartisan public policy research institute dedicated to the study of Central Europe. From 2005–2008, Ms. Conley served as the executive director, Office of the Chairman of the Board of the American National Red Cross, where she focused her efforts on developing the first comprehensive reform to the governance structure of the American Red Cross Board since 1947, incorporating best governance practices for nonprofit and for-profit sectors., “Security Challenges and Opportunities in a Changing Arctic Environment”, This article has been excerpted from the CSIS Europe Program report entitled “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective”. For the complete report, please visit: <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic|__http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic__]]</span>, April 26, 2012, http://www.e-ir.info/2012/04/26/security-challenges-and-opportunities-in-a-changing-arctic-environment/)//SK
The Arctic __[[#|region]]__ is experiencing rapid and extraordinary environmental changes. As sea ice extent is dramatically reduced, fish stocks migrate further north and human activity increases, these changes are likely to alter the dynamics of regional commercial, human, and state interaction. For the United States, the Arctic will take on greater economic importance in the future and will require a comprehensive security strategy that includes increased regional readiness and border security, as well as an enhancement of strategic capabilities. The security challenges in the Arctic are vast, including search and rescue, environmental remediation, piracy, terrorism, natural and man-made disaster response, and border protection. There is presently a near absence of satellite coverage, limited hydrographic mapping, difficulties of ice forecasting, and mobility constraints of ice-strengthened equipment. A coherent surveillance of ice thickness does not currently exist, a critical factor when operating tankers, oil platforms, and cruise ships in the Arctic. This problem is exacerbated by the vacillation of sea ice, which makes safe navigation of the harsh territory more difficult. In addition, magnetic and solar phenomena limit communications equipment above 70 degrees north. The Second World War and the Cold War were the defining historical frameworks for U.S. engagement in the Arctic. During World War II, the United States needed to create supply routes by air and by sea to resupply the Soviet front through the port of Murmansk and to fend off any possible Japanese invasion of Alaska. This justified the construction of a portion of the Alaskan highway system. At the height of the Cold War, the proximity of U.S. Arctic territory to the Soviet Union was the impetus for creating a continental defense and deterrence system, the Distant Early Warning, or DEW, Line. Much of the U.S. security infrastructure that remains in the region was constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. As the Cold War’s existential threat has faded in recent decades, U.S. Arctic capabilities have also been in decline. U.S. Arctic territory occupies only a small portion of the Arctic region as a whole and is far from the political and economic centers of the country. Although Alaska serves the natural resource needs and military interests of the United States, it has not been a major focus of U.S. policy. With the exceptions of the global missile defense architecture based at Fort Greeley and the U.S. government’s ongoing scientific research work, the U.S. security approach toward the Arctic has largely been to outsource requirements to foreign-flagged commercial vessels or to borrow ice-strengthened vessels from Canada, Russia, or Sweden. For many senior U.S. homeland security officials, the concept of border security relates to overall U.S. counterterrorism efforts, its southern border with Mexico, and drug and human interdiction – the most northern borders of the United States receive far less attention. As the U.S. defense and homeland security budgets are increasingly constrained, increased spending for regions that do not pose an immediate threat seems unlikely. Unable to make difficult and future budget decisions, Washington reverts to a near-constant assessment process of U.S. infrastructure and security needs in the Arctic (such as the upcoming FY2014 Navy Arctic Capabilities Based Assessment), suggesting that an endless assessment process is equivalent to taking decisions on a future course of action. In stark contrast, other Arctic coastal nations have declared the Arctic a main strategic area of interest and have placed budgetary resources behind their lofty development plans. Russia, for example, has clearly made the Arctic a priority in documents such as the National Security Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2020 and has backed these goals with investment in icebreakers, regional coordination centers and other border enhancements. Russia has also created incentives to encourage oil and gas development in its Arctic territories. By the end of 2011, Russia had plans to establish a brigade especially equipped and prepared for military warfare in Arctic conditions. The 200 motorized infantry brigade in Pechenga, some 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the Russian-Norwegian border, is the first such unit. In addition, the Russian military is considering the deployment of paratroopers from the Arctic Spetsnaz brigade. The United States is the only Arctic coastal state that does not currently have any large-scale economic development plan for the region and has a woeful lack of Arctic military capabilities. The most definitive declaration of U.S. policy toward the Arctic, the National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-66) on Arctic Region Policy, articulates the most pressing U.S. security interests in the region: missile defense and early-warning systems ; deployment of sea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight; and preventing terrorist attacks and mitigating criminal or hostile acts that could increase U.S. vulnerability to terrorism in the Arctic region. NSPD-66 also addresses governance, scientific cooperation, environmental issues, boundaries and continental shelf disputes, and economic developments.

**Arctic terrorism leads to nuclear and biological warfare**
**Mychajlyszyn 08** (Natalie, International Affairs, Trade and Finance Division, “The Arctic: Canadian Security and Defence”, 24 October 2008, http://www.parl.gc.ca/Content/LOP/ResearchPublications/prb0813-e.htm#illegalaccess)//SK//
//Increased illegal access and illegal activities, including terrorism As the Arctic generally becomes more accessible because of the warming climate, some analysts predict the emergence of new security threats.(6) One such risk is that of an increase in illegal migration and trafficking in persons to North America through the Arctic. There are also fears of the North being used as a thoroughfare for drug trafficking as well as a destination for illegal narcotics. In the post-September 11 era, fears have been raised concerning the increased vulnerability of the Arctic as a passage for terrorists, whether for illegal entry into North America or for the transport of illegal weapons, including biological and chemical devices. To such a list of activities, generally perpetrated by organized crime groups, can be added the rise of other types of organized crime, such as those involving industries engaged in the extraction of lucrative resources, such as diamonds and copper.//

//**That’s war**//
//**Rhodes 09** (Richard Rhodes, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award., “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, 12-14-09, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)//SK
The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen. Richard Lugar surveyed PDF them in 2005. This group of 85 experts judged that the possibility of a WMD attack against a city or other target somewhere in the world is real and increasing over time. The median estimate of the risk of a nuclear attack somewhere in the world by 2010 was 10 percent. The risk of an attack by 2015 doubled to 20 percent median. There was strong, though not universal, agreement that a nuclear attack is more likely to be carried out by a terrorist organization than by a government. The group was split 45 to 55 percent on whether terrorists were more likely to obtain an intact working nuclear weapon or manufacture one after obtaining weapon-grade nuclear material. “The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is not just a security problem,” Lugar wrote in the report’s introduction. “It is the economic dilemma and the moral challenge of the current age. On September 11, 2001, the world witnessed the destructive potential of international terrorism. But the September 11 attacks do not come close to approximating the destruction that would be unleashed by a nuclear weapon. Weapons of mass destruction have made it possible for a small nation, or even a sub-national group, to kill as many innocent people in a day as national armies killed in months of fighting during World War II. “The bottom line is this,” Lugar concluded: “For the foreseeable future, the United States and other nations will face an existential threat from the intersection of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.” It’s paradoxical that a diminished threat of a superpower nuclear exchange should somehow have resulted in a world where the danger of at least a single nuclear explosion in a major city has increased (and that city is as likely, or likelier, to be Moscow as it is to be Washington or New York). We tend to think that a terrorist nuclear attack would lead us to drive for the elimination of nuclear weapons. I think the opposite case is at least equally likely: A terrorist nuclear attack would almost certainly be followed by a retaliatory nuclear strike on whatever country we believed to be sheltering the perpetrators. That response would surely initiate a new round of nuclear armament and rearmament in the name of deterrence, however illogical. Think of how much 9/11 frightened us; think of how desperate our leaders were to prevent any further such attacks; think of the fact that we invaded and occupied a country, Iraq, that had nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.

**Other agencies don’t solve---they rely on Coast Guard action.**
**Alaska Dispatch 12** (“War games gauge US Navy's huge Arctic readiness gap”, Apr 30, 2012, http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/war-games-gauge-us-navys-huge-arctic-readiness-gap)//SK//
//It should surprise no one who follows Arctic matters, but according to the Kodiak Daily Mirror (via the Juneau Empire), fictional war games recently completed by a department of the U.S. Naval War College indicate the U.S. Navy is very unprepared to conduct significant security or disaster response missions by itself in the Arctic region, and unless the government's focus changes, is likely to remain that way. Eighty-eight participants from industry, government and the Navy's top command came together and found that as a force the Navy lacks practically everything that would allow sustained operation in the region, even cold-weather clothing. “We have limited capability to sustain long-term operations in the Arctic due to inadequate icebreaking capability,” Walter Berbrick, an assistant research professor at the Center for Naval Warfare studies, said. “The Navy finds itself entering a new realm as it relates to having to rely on other nations.” One of the most critical conclusions to come from the games is that if a crisis should happen in Arctic waters, the Navy would have to join with the U.S. Coast Guard and other countries, localities and private industries to respond effectively. The Coast Guard, because it already sporadically operates in the Arctic, would likely take the lead. “We are the only Arctic nation without an Arctic strategy,” said U.S. Navy Cmdr. Blake McBride, Arctic Affairs officer for Task Force Climate Change. “The Coast Guard and Department of Defense are working on a strategy to help answer the issue, and advocate for capabilities.” "Advocate for capabilities" means squeezing necessary funding from a U.S. government that has so far shown little interest in its role in the rapidly changing Arctic.//

//**New infrastructure and navigational operations solve readiness.**//
//**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK
In July 2011, the Coast Guard provided to Congress a study on the Coast Guard’s missions and capabilities for operations in high-latitude (i.e., polar) areas. The study, commonly known as the High Latitude Study, is dated July 2010 on its cover. The High Latitude Study concluded the following: [The study] concludes that future [Coast Guard] capability and capacity gaps will significantly impact four [Coast Guard] mission areas in the Arctic: Defense Readiness, Ice Operations, Marine Environmental Protection, and Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security. These mission areas address the protection of important national interests in a geographic area where other nations are actively pursuing their own national goals. U.S. national policy and laws define the requirements to assert the nation’s jurisdiction over its territory and interests; to ensure the security of its people and critical infrastructure; to participate fully in the collection of scientific knowledge; to support commercial enterprises with public utility; and to ensure that the Arctic environment is not degraded by increased human activity. The Coast Guard’s ability to support Defense Readiness mission requirements in the Arctic is closely linked to DoD responsibilities. The Coast Guard presently possesses the only surface vessels capable of operating in ice-covered and ice-diminished waters. The Coast Guard supports (1) DoD missions such as the resupply of Thule Air Base in Greenland and logistics support (backup) for McMurdo Station in Antarctica and (2) Department of State (DoS) directed Freedom of Navigation Operations. These unique Coast Guard capabilities have been noted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Navy’s Task Force Climate Change, and the recently issued Naval Operations Concept 2010. The common and dominant contributor to these significant mission impacts is the gap in polar icebreaking capability....223 Other capability gaps contributing to the impact on Coast Guard ability to carry out its missions in the Arctic include: • Communications System Capability – Continuous coverage along Alaska’s West Coast, the Bering Strait, and throughout the North Slope is required for exchanging voice and data communications with Coast Guard units and other government and commercial platforms offshore. • Forward Operating Locations - No suitable facilities currently exist on the North Slope or near the Bering Strait with facilities sufficient to support extended aircraft servicing and maintenance. Aircraft must travel long distances and expend significant time transiting to and from adequate facilities. This gap reduces on-scene presence and capability to support sustained operations in the region. • Environmental response in ice-covered waters - The technology and procedures for assessment and mitigation measures for oil spills in ice-covered waters are not fully developed or tested. Capability gaps in the Arctic region have moderate impacts on [the Coast Guard’s] Aids to Navigation (AtoN), Search and Rescue (SAR), and Other Law Enforcement (OLE) missions. Both AtoN and SAR involve the safety of mariners and will gain more importance not only as commerce and tourism cause an increase in maritime traffic, but as U.S. citizens in northern Alaska face more unpredictable conditions. Performance of OLE will be increasingly necessary to ensure the integrity of U.S. living marine resources from outside pressures.... In addition to the assessment of polar icebreaking needs, the Arctic mission analysis examined a set of theoretical mixes (force packages) of Coast Guard assets consisting of icebreakers, their embarked helicopters, and deployment alternatives using aviation forward operating locations in Arctic Alaska.... All [six] of the force mixes [considered in the study] add assets to the existing Coast Guard Alaska Patrol consisting of (1) a high-endurance cutter (not an icebreaker) deployed in the Bering Sea carrying a short range recovery helicopter, and (2) medium range recovery helicopters located at Kodiak in the Gulf of Alaska, and seasonally deployed to locations in Cold Bay and St. Paul Island.... These force packages and associated risk assessment provide a framework for acquisition planning as the Coast Guard implements a strategy for closing the capability gaps. By first recapitalizing the aging icebreakers, the Coast Guard provides a foundation for buildout of these force mixes. In addition to the cost of the icebreakers, the force packages require investment in forward operating locations and in medium range helicopters. The mission analysis reports developed rough order-of-magnitude cost estimates for forward operating locations at approximately $36M [million] each and for helicopters at $9M each.... The analysis shows that the current Coast Guard deployment posture is not capable of effective response in northern Alaska and that response may be improved through a mix of deployed cutters, aircraft, and supporting infrastructure including forward operating locations and communications/navigation systems.224

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 5 is Solvency__** </span></span>
**Implementing a VTS solves- Norway proves**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 6, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span>)//SK//
//The Arctic, as observers know, is on the verge of historic change and with it must come the aids to navigation and safety infrastructure to ensure shipping can be conducted safely and with the reasonable prospect of rescue in the event of a major disaster. No place is more critical to safety in the Arctic than the confined waters of the Bering Strait. Therefore, what is needed is a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) to mitigate risk associated with increased shipping. The Norwegians have a VTS at Vardø on the northern tip of Norway that could serve as a model for the Bering.[2] According to the Norwegian Oceanic Vessel Traffic Management Services handbook, the Norwegian Coastal Administration’s missions are fourfold: Coastal Management, Maritime Safety, Maritime Transport and Emergency preparedness in case of acute pollution. Recognizing the Barents Sea is a financially productive water space representing three of Norway’s largest industries: oil, gas and fisheries, it is incumbent on Norway to manage maritime traffic to prevent accidents that could threaten their livelihood.[3] The US and Russian Federation economic zones in the Bering Strait are just as vulnerable as Norway’s.//

//**VTS will be able to monitor traffic and retain dialogue to take action.**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Wednesday, February 8, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK
Assuming a VTS is a next logic step in Arctic infrastructure development, alone it cannot be expected to reduce the risks during transit. While a VTS provides the situational awareness by monitoring, tracking and communicating with vessels, it also needs to have a response capability. The Vardø VTS has an emergency tow response service, as well as, two Rescue Coordination Centers in the North and South of Norway.[11] Recall for a moment the Russian Federation’s desire for ten NSR Rescue Centers. But Rescue Centers alone will not be enough to ensure safe passage. Given the recent environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico and environmentalists calls for spill response protocols prior to the US Government allowing multinational oil and gas companies to drill in the Arctic, putting appropriate controls in place, to respond in the event of a spill and/or a vessel run aground, would seem reasonable. Fortunately, the Arctic Council appears to be moving toward a Spill Response agreement in the near future. Naturally, as vessel traffic increases, the Bering Strait VTS must also have supporting infrastructure such as aids to navigation, a port facility to harbor emergency tow service vessels and icebreakers, heated hangers and helicopter pads for the Russian Federation Border Guard and/or US Coast Guard air rescue. A strategically placed spill response capability should also be included. All of which would be necessary investments. Vardø VTS has the following primary tasks: • Monitor ship movements - record, identify and detect irregularities • Prevent accidents by maintaining constant dialogue with vessel trafﬁc • Take action and alert when a situation requires it • Manage tugboat preparedness Norway • Monitor the coverage area in the Norwegian economic zone, Svalbard and Jan Mayen • Navarea 19 coordinator, issuing and sending of navigational warnings • Assembly and provision of statistics • 1st line response of the Norwegian Coastal Administration • Contact in the agreement on international notiﬁcation of acute pollution with Russia • Information exchange with Iceland • National coordinator of Single Hull, reporting to Helsinki Commission/European Maritime Safety Agency

**PWSA proves VTS is under the Coast Guard’s jurisdiction.**
**Boyer 10**(J.M., Commander of the 17th Coast Guard District and Chief of the Waterways Management Branch, “Port Access Route Study: In the Bering Strait”, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, Federal Register / Vol. 75, No. 215 / Monday, November 8, 2010, http://www.uscg.mil/d17/D17%20Divisions/dpw/docs/PARSNoticeBeringStrait.pdf)//SK//
//Under the Ports and Waterways Safety Act (PWSA) (33 U.S.C. 1223(c)), the Commandant of the Coast Guard may designate necessary fairways and traffic separation schemes (TSSs) to provide safe access routes for vessels proceeding to and from U.S. ports. The designation of fairways and TSSs recognizes the paramount right of navigation over all other uses in the designated areas. The PWSA requires the Coast Guard to conduct a study of potential traffic density and the need for safe access routes for vessels before establishing or adjusting fairways or TSSs. Through the study process, we must coordinate with Federal, State, and foreign state agencies (as appropriate) and consider the views of maritime community representatives, environmental groups, and other interested stakeholders. A primary purpose of this coordination is, to the extent practicable, to reconcile the need for safe access routes with other reasonable waterway uses.//

//**And your DAs are non-unique---the 2013 budget gave money to rebuild Coast Guard capabilities.**//
//**USCG 12** (United States Coast Guard, “U.S. Coast Guard Fact Sheet Fiscal Year 2013 President’s Budget”, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 13-Feb 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/posturestatement/docs/FY_2013_Budget_Fact_Sheet.pdf)//SK
BACKGROUND: The FY 2013 President’s Budget requests $9.97 billion for the Coast Guard, including $8.32 billion in discretionary funding. This Budget strikes the optimal balance between sustaining current operations and investing in future capabilities. KEY POINTS: Provides $1.2 billion to Responsibly Rebuild the Coast Guard. Investment in recapitalization is a top budget priority in FY 2013. Funds current services requirements to Efficiently Preserve Front-line Operations, including resources to operate and maintain new assets, and funding for personnel pay and benefit increases. Will Strengthen Resource and Operational Stewardship through administrative and programmatic reductions to improve efficiency and service delivery, while continuing investment in Coast Guard activities that provide the highest return on investment. Recognizes the criticality of the Arctic as a strategic National priority, and Prepares for the Future by addressing emerging threats and risks in this region. The Coast Guard will continue to provide superior value and service to the American public.

**__Plan Text__**

**Plan Text: The United States Coast Guard should implement a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic System.**
===**Dowling 1AC**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Plan**</span></span>

**Plan text: The United States Coast Guard should implement a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic System.**


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Contention 1 is Oil**</span></span>

**We need Arctic oil- New infrastructure solves**
**USARC 09** (The United States Arctic Research Commission, The Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment is a comprehensive study that focuses on marine safety and marine environmental protection and emphasizes three themes: enhancing Arctic marine safety, protecting Arctic people and the environment, and building the Arctic marine infrastructure., “Scenarios, Futures and Regional Futures to 2020”, ine.uaf.edu/accap/documents/AMSAScenariosandRegionalFutures.pdf)//SK//
//U.S. Geological Survey report, issued in July 2008, indicates the Arctic may contain as much as one-fifth of the world’s undiscovered oil and natural gas. More specifically, the assessment found the Arctic to potentially contain 90 billion barrels of undiscovered oil and 1,670 trillion cubic feet (47 trillion cubic meters) of undiscovered natural gas, representing 13 percent of the undiscovered oil and 30 percent undiscovered natural gas. Of the total for undiscovered oil reserves, more than half are estimated to occur in geologic provinces in the Alaska Arctic (offshore and onshore), the Amerasian Basin (offshore north of the Beaufort Sea) and in West and East Greenland (offshore). More than 70 percent of the undiscovered natural gas is estimated to be located in three areas: the West Siberian Basin (Yamal Peninsula and offshore in the Kara Sea), the East Barents Basin (location of the Russian Federation’s giant offshore Shtokman field) and the Alaska Arctic (offshore and onshore). Each of these regions would require vastly expanded Arctic marine operations to support future exploration and development. Several regions, such as offshore Greenland, would require fully developed Arctic marine transport systems to carry hydrocarbons to global markets. Despite the recent global recession, two Arctic nations, Norway and the Russian Federation, have already made significant investments during recent decades in developing Arctic hydrocarbons in offshore Arctic Norway and northwest Russia’s offshore systems in the Pechora Sea. Arctic marine transport systems support each of these developments, and oil and LNG tanker traffic from the Barents Sea to world markets is expected to continue for several decades. For the Russian Federation, future investments in developing the Shtokman gas field west of Novaya Zemlya in the east Barents Sea are evolving. This field, understood to be one of the world’s largest gas fields, lies 600 kilometers offshore and in depths of water to 2,000 meters. Exploration and development of this large, offshore region will require extraordinary levels of Arctic marine operations, most conducted in waters that are not ice-covered, but under extreme cold temperatures. Natural gas from Shtokman would be transported by sub-sea pipeline or a marine tanker system, either of which would increase marine operations in this region of the Arctic. For the United States (Alaska) and Canada, where offshore Arctic lease sales were held for the Chukchi (U.S.) and Beaufort (Canada) seas in 2008, the future remains uncertain. The leases represent long-term, strategic investments. Marine exploration of the Arctic offshore should continue during the next decade. One of the key factors in future Arctic offshore developments is that a majority of the seabed oil and gas resources are located within the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZs) of the Arctic states (i.e., Arctic offshore regions of Alaska, Canada, Norway, Greenland and the Russian Federation). While there remain several, regional boundary disputes where potential resources may overlap, the general jurisdictional issues are clear and do not appear to be significant obstacles to future Arctic hydrocarbon development. Hard minerals development in the Arctic will continue to be influenced by global commodities markets and prices. However, the largest zinc mine in the world (Red Dog in the Alaska Arctic) and the largest nickel mine (Norilsk in Siberia) will continue to be solely dependent on marine transport systems - seasonal in the case of Red Dog and year-round operations for Norilsk Nickel. It is plausible that the summer, ice-free season for support to the Red Dog mine could be extended as Arctic sea ice continues to retreat in the Chukchi Sea. The Mary River iron ore deposits on Baffin Island, Nunavut in the Canadian Arctic represent a highly valuable mineral resource (high grade iron ore of 67 percent iron). Plans have been underway for some time to develop a mining operation and ship to European markets 18 million tons of ore each year, estimated to last for a minimum of 25 years. This is a large Arctic project that would involve a fleet of ice-capable cargo carriers operating on a year-round basis between Baffin Island and Europe. Ice navigation would be required for operations in the winter and early spring. Greenland geology records more than four billion years of earth history, preserving significant mineral deposits. For example, the Kvanefjeld Project near the southwest tip of Greenland represents a multi-element deposit containing rare elements, uranium and sodium fluoride. Potentially world class and multi-commodity ore deposits exist in other regions of coastal Greenland. The exploration and development of these mines will require Arctic marine transport systems to carry these scarce commodities to global markets.//

//**The aff leads to offshore platforms**//
//**LMS 05-** Land Marine Systems (2005, “VESSEL TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.lmstechnologies.com/vtms.htm</span> || RT)//
//Vessels Traffic Management Systems are installed in some of the busiest waters in the world are making valuable contribution to safer navigation, more efficient traffic flow, and protection of the environment. Traffic flow in busy approach routes, access channels, and harbors can be coordinated safely, in the best interest of port and its users. Incidents and emergency situations can be dealt with quickly .data from traffic movements can be stored and used as reference information for port administration, port authorities, coastguards and search and rescue services. LMS is associated with a known and experienced supplier of VTMS who are involved in design, development, and installation and provide maintaince services for the VTMS intended for Ship Management Companies, Ship Owners, Ports and Oil Companies, thereby covering all Vessel Traffic Management and Surveillance aspects. We have a range of operational systems installed worldwide LMS is proud to be involved in installation, commissioning and maintaince of first of its kind of VTMS in India and the proud customer is Kolkata Port Trust, Kolkata. LMS is also responsible for the warranty and AMC of KOPT, VTMS. VTMS systems can also be used in: Offshore Platforms Offshore platforms can use VTMS comprising radars and operators displays which help in hazardous environment of offshore oil and gas exploration and production. 24 Hrs VTMS service has become an essential safety tool and cost effective facility for: -Platform protection. -Safety of loading/unloading, buoys, wellheads, pipelines -Traffic advisory systems Ports and coastal Traffic VTMS can be installed at ports for maintaining coastal traffic and providing valuable service for their operators and customers as under: - Traffic information and advisory systems. - Traffic data for port information management system. - Assistance to coastguard, search and rescue - Smuggling, illegal immigration detection. - Protection of artillery firing ranges - Radar integration//

//**Collisions prevent platforms**//
//**Flohberger 10** (Margaret Loudon, Master’s Thesis for Faculty of Science and Technology at the University of Stavanger, “Suggested Improvements For Ship-Installation Collision Risk Models To Reflect Current Collision Avoidance Systems”, 15/06/2010, http://brage.bibsys.no/uis/bitstream/URN:NBN:no-bibsys_brage_14061/1/Flohberger%2c%20Margaret%20Loudon.pdf)//SK
As mentioned earlier, the size and stability of the ship will determine is susceptibility to sea induced movement. Larger vessels will generally be more stable, but as size increases the maneuverability decreases. For both large and small vessels, the velocity of the passing vessel on collision course will affect the time to until the potential collision, which will influence the effectiveness of the platform’s collision avoidance plan. Good communications and effective promulgation are important for reducing the risk of an incident. Substandard ships and ship owners pose a safety hazard, which is difficult to control due to the international nature of the maritime industry. More than half of the collisions in the North Sea are due to old and/or flags of convenience (FOC) vessels (27). Although FOC are associated with substandard shipping and poorer work conditions, there has been a steady growth in flagging out. Some flag states, known as Flags of Convenience FOC, lack both the drive and competence to enforce the safety standards set by the IMO (26). Due to the shortcomings of Flag state control, there was a need for Port States to challenge certificates of foreign vessels. In 1982 a Memorandum of Understanding on Port State Control (MOU PSC) was signed by 19 European states and Canada. This gives Port States the authority to control shipping in their own waters through inspections of foreign vessels. If several deficiencies are found during the inspection, the vessel will be detained. As shown in Figure 4-2, several Flag States have a detention rate much higher than average. Typical areas for deficiencies are shown in Table 4-1. The average detention percentage was 4.9% in 2008. Figure 4-2 only includes flags with 20 and more port State control inspections with detention percentage exceeding the average. High risk flags such as Bolivia and Libyan Arab Jamahiriya also had high detention rates, 83.33% and 90.91% respectively, but do not appear on the figure because there were less than 20 inspections of these flags. Nearly 25% of the deficiencies found during the State control inspections relate to the equipment and machinery, with 12% of the total deficiencies pertaining to navigational equipment. Submarine traffic is typically excluded from collision models since the probability for collision with this vessel type is negligible compared to the probabilities for collision with other vessel types. But there have been a few collisions between platforms and submerged submarines. It should be noted that in areas where submarines operate, it may be necessary to install submarine beacons and additional promulgation may be required (48). In areas where there are a large numbers of vessels and platforms, it could be reasoned that the watchkeeper will be more vigilant than in areas where obstacles are sparse. However, data for passing vessel collisions does not support this. Areas where platforms are more numerous are at greater risk; probably because the watchkeeper’s heightened awareness is unable to compensate for the increased risk in congested areas (13). When visual observation is not possible, the navigator must depend on electronic aids. Even though the vessel should be traveling at reduced speeds and it is assumed that the navigator will be more vigilant, accident statistics indicate that a large proportion of collisions occur when visibility is poor. If a SBV is utilized as part of a platform’s collision avoidance strategy, low visibility will impact the ability of the watchkeeper on the bridge to visually identify a collision scenario. Furthermore, the platform’s Emergency Response Plan (ERP) is likely to require the SBV to approach the vessel and to use maritime light and sound signals. Poor visibility will impede the effectiveness of these methods. In the late 1970’s the effect of visibility was studied in the Dover Strait. Three visibility classes were applied in this study: • Clear: Greater than 4km • Mist/fog: 200m-4km • Thick/dense: Less than 200m For the Dover Strait, the probability of collision was found to be 300 times higher for the ‘Thick/dense’ visibility; however, because such conditions occur less that 1% of time, this class was found to contribute to 68% of collisions (26). To better understand the affect that technological advances have had, a similar study can be carried out in the North Sea for platforms to determine how visibility affects the collision risk. The observed data can be used to find the Fog Collision Risk Index (FCRI). In the North Sea, the risk of a collision for a platform located near a busy shipping lane is comparable to that of a major fire on a platform. Whereas, the likelihood of a collision for an platform in a more isolated location away from shipping lanes is relatively insignificant (27). All 8 of the passing vessel–platform collisions observed in the UKCS database occurred in the Southern area of the North Sea, which is more densely populated with shipping traffic (13). Clearly, there is an opportunity to influence the probability of a passing vessel collision in the design phase, when the platform’s location is determined. Factors which influence the probability of collision include (17): • Traffic density and proximity to the target location • Proximity to traffic separation schemes, vessel routes and/or constricted navigational channels • Other types of shipping passing in the area • Size, speed and habits of passing traffic. • Fishing routes and activity in the area. • Estimates competency of the regular traffic crews These factors will need to be assessed before locating a platform. By applying the appropriate vessel traffic data and vessel-platform collision models, the likelihood of experiencing a collision can be estimated. The assessment of traffic density may be carried out using COAST database. This data comprises numerous sources including port log data provided by LMIS (Lloyds Maritime Information Services), radar data from offshore and onshore radar stations, manual vessel traffic surveys, operator information etc (39). In the UK sector, the densities are defined as (48): Low: <1,000 passing vessels per year Low to Medium: 1,000 to 5,000 passing vessels per year Medium to High: 5,000 to 20,000 passing vessels per year High: > 20,000 passing vessels per year The degree of concentration should also be considered as there are some areas, such as the southern North Sea and Irish Sea, where the routes funnel down resulting in vessels passing in close proximity to platforms (17). It is also essential to identify regular passing traffic (e.g. ferry operators, fishing organizations and regular shipping lines) and to consult with their representatives. The local users should also be notified of the developments which follow. For busy areas, it may be required to assess how potential traffic route modifications due to the platform will impact the likelihood of vessel-vessel collisions (48). Data from Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) can be used to identify any changes in traffic patterns.

**Aff solves**
**Flohberger 10** (Margaret Loudon, Master’s Thesis for Faculty of Science and Technology at the University of Stavanger, “Suggested Improvements For Ship-Installation Collision Risk Models To Reflect Current Collision Avoidance Systems”, 15/06/2010, http://brage.bibsys.no/uis/bitstream/URN:NBN:no-bibsys_brage_14061/1/Flohberger%2c%20Margaret%20Loudon.pdf)//SK//
//Collision risks can be reduced by Vessel Traffic Service (VTS), which provides active monitoring and navigational advice for vessels. VTS is an integrated part of StatoilHydro’s emergency response center. In Norway, the StatoilHydro Marin provides ocean monitoring services for 51 StatoilHydro installations. They are able to monitor 80% of the NCS petroleum activity by radar. AIS transponders are used in the identification of vessels from a distance of 40 nm. VTS is able to alert installations of a vessel on collision course within an hour estimated impact. Their objective is to identify and warn ships on a course towards an installation. VTS coordinates all offshore SV, ERRV and guard vessels. Many VTS stations have radars, and the addition of AIS offers a number of positive benefits. The Statoil Hydro Marine surveillance consists of 50 integrated radars, 10 AIS transponders, and 19 VHF stations. As shown in Figure 4-4, there is a significant overlap of the radar coverage, which offers optimal target detection. VTS data may also be used during accident investigations. For example, the captain of the Grane told the investigation team that the ships speed was 1.5-2 knots just before impact; however, records from Statoil Marin indicate that the boat's speed at the collision ranged from 2 -7 knots, and was probably a few less than 7 knots (34). VTS can also assist with data collection. Monitoring by VTS plays a main role in Norway’s RNNP project. As shown in Figure 4-5, collision trends such as "major accident DFU vessel on a collision course” can be measured with more accuracy.//

//**Scenario 1 is Oil Prices**//

//**Oil’s running out and it’ll shatter free trade- leads to protectionism**//
//**Curtis and Ehrenfeld 12** (Fred, Fred Curtis is Professor of Economics and Environmental Studies at Drew University in Madison, New Jersey, AND David, David Ehrenfeld is a professor at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, “The new geography of trade: globalization’s decline may stimulate local recovery”, Published Feb 10 2012 by The Solutions Journal, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.energybulletin.net/stories/2012-02-10/new-geography-trade-globalization%E2%80%99s-decline-may-stimulate-local-recovery</span>)// SK
The price of crude oil rose from $28 per barrel in 2003 to over $147 in the summer of 2008. In 2008 20 airlines (mostly regional freight carriers) went bankrupt.4 Fuel costs rose from 15 to 35 percent of airline (freight and passenger) operating expenses.5 In the first two months of 2011, air carriers increased fares four times to adjust for rising oil prices.6 In 2007–2008, the cost of trans-Pacific shipping of a standard container by sea went from $3,000 to $8,000.7 In 2010, with oil at half its 2008 price, the Danish shipping company Maersk cut its top cruising speeds in half to reduce fuel costs.8,9 According to economists Jeff Rubin and Benjamin Tal, every $1 per barrel increase in crude oil prices results in a 1 percent increase in freight transportation costs.7 As economic growth resumes, the demand for oil will increase. The International Energy Agency predicted a 2.5 million barrel per day increase for 2011, the biggest one-year increase in 30 years.10 Chinese oil demand is expected to grow over 10 percent due to economic growth and coal shortages.11 Furthermore, recent decisions in Japan and Germany to decommission nuclear power plants may increase the demand for diesel fuel to run electric generators.12 A number of factors limit oil supply’s ability to both keep up with demand and limit oil price instability. Deepwater drilling is likely to be more expensive in the Gulf of Mexico due to new regulations and higher insurance costs following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.13,14 Deepwater oil will provide at least 25 percent of world supply by 2020.15 The failure to invest in sufficient upstream production facilities has also made an oil-supply crunch likely. Political unrest in the oil-rich Middle East creates uncertainty about oil prices due to fears of supply disruptions. And finally, there is peak oil, when production flow rates hit a maximum and decline thereafter. This has already occurred for the majority of oil producing nations and will soon happen for global oil production. Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Canada, and Venezuela are approaching national oil peaks at the same time that their domestic demand for oil is expected to rise significantly.16,17 These exporters will either reduce exports or, like Indonesia and the United Kingdom, become oil importers.17 World Energy Outlook 2010 stated that global conventional oil production peaked in 2006 and is expected to decline from 70 million barrels per day to less than 16 million in 2035.18 We use oil faster than we discover new resources. Global oil discoveries peaked in the 1960s.19 The American Joint Forces Command predicts that “By 2012, surplus oil production capacity could entirely disappear.”20 According to the United Kingdom Energy Research Centre, “more than two-thirds of current crude oil production capacity may need to be replaced by 2030 … equivalent to a new Saudi Arabia coming on stream every three years.”21 The near- and long-term results will be rising transportation fuel costs, oil-price volatility, and a declining quantity of conventional oil fuels. If large-scale mitigation of peak oil and climate change is not feasible soon, what will happen? Given current investments in the existing pattern of trade and the high costs of reorienting it, change will be resisted, with resulting widespread economic disruption. But change will occur. Clearly, increased fuel costs and higher transport risks will cause supply chains to shorten and long-distance trade to decline. Initially, there will be shifts in transport modes—truck to rail, air to water and rail—designed to preserve trade routes. But more fundamental adaptations are already starting to take place to reduce or replace long-distance trade. Beginning with the oil price and transport cost increases in 2007–2008, some companies began rethinking their global supply chains, and a few shifted to local suppliers. Some manufacturers have opened new furniture, steel, and auto plants in the United States or Mexico to feed the U.S. market.40 In May 2011, Volkswagen inaugurated its huge Passat assembly plant in Tennessee, “as part of our effort to manufacture more products locally.”41 The plant is expected to generate, directly and indirectly, 12,000 jobs. These changes in supply chains are motivated by considerations of corporate profits. Manufacturers may relocate production closer to either suppliers of key raw materials or major markets to minimize transportation miles and costs.42,43 In 2008 some steel mills in the United States increased domestic production by directly importing iron ore from Brazil. This system bypassed the expensive trans-Pacific shipment of iron ore from Brazil to China and then of steel from China to the United States.7,40 The resurgence of domestic manufacturing in developed nations could provide employment growth, especially for blue-collar workers. However, employment may decline in current low-wage manufacturing exporters as rising transportation costs make them less competitive**.** Nations may respond with protectionist policies to changes in trade patterns.In 2008**,** as __[[#|food prices]]__ rose (due in part to extreme weather, corn ethanol production, and rising oil prices), several grain-exporting nations banned exports of cereal crops.44 In June 2011 China banned the export of diesel fuel in order to have enough on hand to power electric generators in the face of expected brownouts.18 With rising transport costs, nations are likely to subsidize energy or manufacturing to preserve exports and jobs. Such export bans and subsidies [that] contravene provisions of the World Trade Organization and many trade treaties such as NAFTA. While corporations have responded to rising oil prices with some changes in supply chains, national governments have not responded in kind. Current climate-policy negotiations are ineffective despite rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions. Only the United Kingdom and Sweden have identified oil depletion as a key economic issue and begun to discuss responses. Trade policies such as the Korea and Colombia Free Trade Agreements with the United States are predicated on the assumption of cheap fuel, low transportation costs, and transportation-compatible weather patterns—in other words, business as usual. Thus, there are at present few national and no international policy responses to the imminent threats to global trade. There is, however, a second, more local, noncorporate response. This response is found in the Relocalization and Transition Towns movements now springing up in many developed countries. It is a bottom-up response that includes individuals and municipalities planning for a post-peak-oil future and altering their way of life, buying locally made products as much as possible, reducing consumption and acquisition, and increasing self-sufficiency within communities that produce many of the goods and services they consume. The resurgence in the numbers of young people going into farming in the United States is an example. Relocalization strategies include local currencies, community land trusts, decentralized alternative energy development, water conservation and reuse, local food production, and new, locally oriented business networks. Patterns of adaptation will differ from place to place. Initially, there will be heavy and unpredictable impacts on many developing nations that currently depend on foreign cash earned for commodity exports, or that import much of their food. Yet every country is different. Even large urban complexes can provide a surprising quantity of their own food. In China, concerns over rising food prices (and food safety) have caused a boom in online sales of vegetable seeds.45 Shanghai now produces much of its own vegetables within its urban limits, as do cities in sub-Saharan Africa.46 If a developing country imports many goods and services, it has to pay for them, probably in part with money earned from commodity exports. When those exports are reduced by high shipping costs, some countries will have the capacity to rapidly increase local production of essentials for local consumption. Others, less fortunate, will take longer. It is now critical for economic planners, laypersons, and governments to recognize that long-term energy and climate realities will impose limits on the global movement of goods. Trade pacts, like the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, and business models, like Walmart with its transoceanic supply chains, will make less sense as the foundations of global trade are undermined. This is not the result of either ideology or policy. Only when we accept these realities can we design and rebuild less vulnerable patterns of production and trade throughout the world. Nearly every country has existing examples of sound, regional development that can be used as models. Global trade will not disappear, but as it wanes and as supply chains shorten, the importance of regional and local economies will increase. Manufacturing and food production for domestic consumption in the United States and other developed nations (and regions within nations) will regain an importance not seen since the first half of the twentieth century. Security strategies will be adjusted to reflect the increased role of domestic production in national affairs. We should plan now for these inevitable changes. Crises bring more than trouble—they bring opportunities.

**Protectionism causes war- Multiple scenarios**
**Panzner 8** (Michael, Michael Panzner is a fellow of the New York Institute of Finance and is a 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for such leading companies as HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and J.P. Morgan Chase., Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, pages 136-138)//SK//
//Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster, But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange, foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the (heap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences.Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations [to] running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more healed sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighborsin the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an "intense confrontation" between the United States and China is "inevitable" at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.//

//**Scenario 2 is Democracy**//

//**Keeping oil prices low is key to democracy- High oil prices help dictatorships and it’s reverse causal**//
//**Ross 2011**- Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the author of the forthcoming book The Oil Curse: How Petroleum Wealth Shapes the Development of Nations (Michael L., “Will Oil Drown the Arab Spring?”, September/October Foreign Affairs”)//
//Even before this year's Arab uprisings, the Middle East was not an undifferentiated block of authoritarianism. The citizens of countries with little or no oil, such as Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, and Tunisia, generally had more freedom than those of countries with lots of it, such as Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, and Saudi Arabia. And once the tumult started, the oil-rich regimes were more effective at fending off attempts to unseat them. Indeed, the Arab Spring has seriously threatened just one oil-funded ruler -- Libya's Muammar al-Qaddafi -- and only because NATO's intervention prevented the rebels' certain defeat. Worldwide, democracy has made impressive strides over the last three decades: just 30 percent of the world's governments were democratic in 1980; about 60 percent are today. Yet almost all the democratic governments that emerged during that period were in countries with little or no oil; in fact, countries that produced less than $100 per capita of oil per year (about what Ukraine and Vietnam produce) were three times as likely to democratize as countries that produced more than that. No country with more than a fraction of the per capita oil wealth of Bahrain, Iraq, or Libya has ever successfully gone from dictatorship to democracy. Scholars have called this the oil curse, arguing that oil wealth leads to authoritarianism, economic instability, corruption, and violent conflict. Skeptics claim that the correlation between oil and repression is a coincidence. As Dick Cheney, then the CEO of Haliburton, remarked at a 1996 energy conference, "The problem is that the good Lord didn't see fit to put oil and gas reserves where there are democratic governments." But divine intervention did not cause repression in the Middle East: hydrocarbons did. There is no getting around the fact that countries in the region are less free because they produce and sell oil. OIL'S DIRTY SECRETS Oil has not always been a barrier to democracy. Until the early 1970s, oil-producing countries were no less likely to be democratic than any other state. Ironically, this was because until that point, the so-called Seven Sisters, a handful of giant Western oil companies, dominated the global oil industry and collected most of its profits. This meant that the governments of countries with a lot of oil had no more funding, and no more power over their citizens, than the governments of countries without oil. Starting in the 1960s and early 1970s, however, all this began to change. First, the Seven Sisters lost their stranglehold on the global oil market due to the rise of independent oil companies such as Getty Oil, Standard Oil of Ohio, and the Italian state-owned Eni. Meanwhile, oil-exporting states banded together to create the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, which boosted their leverage over the old and new companies. These developments, along with the Arab oil embargo that followed the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, caused oil prices to jump from $2.50 a barrel in 1972 to about $12 a barrel in 1974. Eager to capture the resulting windfalls, virtually all developing countries expropriated the foreign oil companies operating on their soil and set up national oil companies to manage them. These nationalizations brought with them massive influxes of new wealth and so were hugely popular; they made the careers of many politicians. Shortly after coming to power in a 1969 military coup, for example, Qaddafi began to nationalize his country's oil industry, which gave him control over a flood of revenue. He then spent it funding his revolutionary agenda and buying off powerful tribal chiefs who might otherwise have been a threat to his rule. The architect of Iraq's oil nationalization was the vice chair of the Revolutionary Command Council, Saddam Hussein. Saddam's prominent role in the seizure of international oil interests was his "gateway to fame," according to his biographer Con Coughlin. And his control over the resulting torrent of oil money allowed him to eventually displace Ahmad Hasan al-Bakr as Iraq's president. Nationalization made the governments of oil-exporting countries richer and more powerful than ever before. But it was a mixed blessing for the citizens of these countries. The daunting wealth and economic power that was once held by foreign corporations passed into the hands of politicians. Rulers across the region used some of the oil wealth to fund social programs to improve public services and appease their populations. That helped them survive the wave of democratization that swept the globe in the 1980s and 1990s and chased scores of other dictators out of office. Since then, control over oil revenue has helped autocrats stay in power in three main ways. First, it has allowed them to buy off citizens by providing them with many benefits with virtually no taxation. The relationship between taxation and representation has always been close: when rulers want to raise taxes, citizens demand accountability. In colonial America, frustrated subjects revolted against Great Britain in part because they had to pay taxes even though they were unrepresented in the British parliament. In the Middle East today, oil-funded leaders typically respond to demands for greater accountability by offering new handouts, lowering taxes, or both -- and this usually works. In 2011 alone, for example, Algeria announced plans to invest $156 billion in new infrastructure and cut taxes on sugar; Saudi Arabia directed $136 billion to increasing wages in the public sector, unemployment benefits, and housing subsidies; Kuwait offered each of its citizens a cash gift of 1,000 dinars (about $3,600) and free food staples for 14 months. Autocrats with little or no oil wealth -- Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali in Tunisia, Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, and Ali Abdullah Saleh in Yemen -- made similar gestures, but their pledges were much smaller and therefore less effective. Second, autocrats who get most of their funding from national oil industries find it easier to keep their countries' finances secret. Secrecy helps give oil wealth its democracy-repelling powers: citizens are satisfied with low taxes and seemingly generous benefits only when they do not realize how much of their country's wealth is being lost to theft, corruption, and government incompetence. Under Saddam, more than half of Iraq's national budget was funneled through the Iraq National Oil Company, the finances of which were never disclosed. A 2010 survey by the International Budget Partnership found that autocracies in the Middle East that have little or no oil, including Egypt, Jordan, and Morocco, release at least some information about their finances; by contrast, oil-rich autocracies, such as Algeria and Saudi Arabia, disclose almost nothing. It is worth remembering that the revolts in Egypt and Tunisia were sparked by the people's growing awareness of government corruption. Finally, oil wealth allows autocrats to lavishly fund -- and buy the loyalty of -- their armed forces. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, for example, has given billions of dollars in no-bid contracts to businesses associated with the elite paramilitary Revolutionary Guards. Globally, autocrats without oil wealth spend about two percent of their countries' GDPs on their militaries, whereas their colleagues with oil wealth, who already have much larger budgets, typically spend about three percent. Oil-poor Tunisia, for example, spent $53 per capita on its armed forces in 2008; its oil-rich neighbor, Algeria, spent $141 per capita and had far fewer protests. Some of the world's biggest oil producers, including Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, are also some of its biggest military spenders. This spending has payoffs: when the citizens of Oman and Saudi Arabia took to the streets earlier this year, their armies proved relatively willingly and able to suppress them. WELL-OILED DEMOCRATIZATION None of this means that oil will drown the Arab Spring or that the oil states of the Middle East are doomed to dictatorship. Over the last 12 years, Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria have all successfully made the transition to democracy. And all have oil. But things will not be easy for the Middle East. Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria were only moderate oil producers (Indonesia barely has enough oil to export), and all three opened up politically in 1999 or 2000, shortly after oil prices hit their lowest point in almost 30 years. In fact, the last country with substantial oil wealth to successfully democratize was Venezuela, and that was in 1958. And Venezuela profited from the fact that it had a history of democratic rule and an unusually well-organized labor force, which undermined the military regime's power. But the oil-rich countries of the Middle East are very different. None has had much previous experience with democracy. And most of them have a lot more petroleum than Indonesia, Mexico, and Nigeria: Bahrain, for example, makes more than three times as much money from oil per capita as Venezuela did in 1958 (even after adjusting for inflation), Libya six times as much, and Saudi Arabia more than seven times as much. No country with more oil wealth than Venezuela, which in 1958 produced about 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, has ever successfully democratized. That is not to say that the Middle East's oil-funded rulers could never fall. The spread of the Internet could make it harder for autocrats to conceal government waste and corruption. Meanwhile, oscillating oil prices and government mismanagement could drain their coffers and force them to cut popular subsidies. The shah of Iran's ouster in 1979 followed a similar mixture of corruption that benefited the elite and austerity measures that hurt the lower and middle classes. Yet even if the Middle East's oil-backed dictators were replaced by elected leaders, the specter of authoritarianism would continue to loom. The region's dictators and monarchs have used oil revenues to finance vast patronage networks, which typically entangle both these regimes' supporters and their potential opponents; these networks make it harder for independent civil-society groups to take root. The lack of civil society would make it tough for new democracies to build sturdy coalitions among the old regime's opponents -- coalitions necessary to lead the new governments and fend off a return to authoritarianism. So long as oil prices remain high, moreover, these funds will be a constant source of temptation. Even politicians chosen through free and fair elections can use large petroleum windfalls to roll back democratic reforms. Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, for example, has siphoned hundreds of millions of dollars out of his country's state-owned oil company and poured it into projects that boost his popularity among low-income families and the military. The goodwill he has thus generated among them has allowed him to eliminate checks on his authority: for example, he has replaced disloyal judges on the Supreme Court, imposed new restrictions on the media, and removed presidential term limits. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has behaved similarly. It is hard to predict whether Iraq will follow a similar course. About 85 percent of the government's revenues come from oil exports, yet despite years of trying, the Iraqi parliament has been unable to pass a new oil law that would set up a legal framework to manage these revenues. Meanwhile, there are signs that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is edging away from democracy: he has taken advantage of the Iraqi constitution's ambiguities to establish personal control over key security institutions, including the Counter-Terrorism Command. Critics charge that he uses these instruments to silence political opponents. His government has also started to generously subsidize journalists with cash and land. And following popular demonstrations in February, security forces reportedly beat and arrested hundreds of journalists, political activists, and intellectuals. The Arab Spring uprisings are a reminder of the virtually universal appeal of democracy. But they should also serve as a reminder that oil wealth is one of the most stubborn obstacles to democratic reform. ENDING THE OIL CURSE The oil curse will last only as long as the world buys huge quantities of oil. Aggressive reductions in oil consumption could help reduce prices and hence the flow of money to oil-backed autocrats. The United States alone can have an impact: it is the planet's biggest consumer of petroleum, and in 2009 it burned more than twice as much oil as China, the second-largest market. By reducing its total oil consumption, the United States could help both reduce global oil prices and undermine petroleum-based dictators, even those who sell their oil to China and other autocracies. Without meaningful cuts in consumption, other measures, such as targeted sanctions, would be less effective. For example, the United States could boycott undemocratic oil producers, but as long as global demand is unchanged, these regimes could easily sell their supplies to less discerning buyers at more or less the same price. Moreover, sanctions against oil-exporting countries are notoriously ineffective. Between 1990 and 2003, the UN Security Council imposed severe restrictions on Iraq's oil sales, but these failed to loosen Saddam's grip on power. More limited sanctions have also failed to dislodge oil-dependent regimes in Iran, Libya, and Myanmar (also called Burma). If global demand for oil grows, sanctions will be even less effective. The United States and other petroleum importers could also push for greater transparency in oil markets, which would undermine the authoritarians' ability to buy off their citizens and use state funds for graft. In a joint 2010 study, Revenue Watch Institute and Transparency International found that 29 out of 41 oil-, gas-, and mineral-producing countries disclosed only "partial" or "scant" information about their resource revenues. The international community has already taken some important steps to correct this. In 2002, then British Prime Minister Tony Blair launched the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which called on resource-rich countries to publicly disclose their income. Today, the EITI is an independent organization, with some three dozen country members, including Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iraq, and Nigeria. Meanwhile, one provision of the United States' 2010 financial reform law compels companies registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to report what they pay to governments, on a country-by-country and project-by-project basis, for access to oil, gas, and minerals. This requirement will make it tougher for oil-exporting countries to hide their revenues, and hence government waste and corruption, from their citizens. But more can and should be done. First, the European Union and other oil-consuming regions should follow the United States' lead and require all companies to disclose their payments to foreign governments for access to natural resources. The G-8 endorsed such a measure at its May summit in Deauville, France, but has no power to compel member states to follow through. They must act on their own. Also, the London-based International Accounting Standards Board, which sets accounting procedures for over 120 countries, needs updating. Under the board's current rules, petroleum and mining companies are not required to reveal their payments to foreign governments. Meanwhile, the international community should encourage oil-producing countries to open up their national oil companies. For example, countries could be encouraged to list their national oil companies on the New York Stock Exchange. By joining the exchange, they would gain access to new investors but would also become subject to the United States' new disclosure standards. The international community should also encourage producers to follow the principles set by the Natural Resource Charter, which was drafted by a group of scholars and practitioners to help citizens and governments use their countries' resource wealth in more socially beneficial ways. Oil-producing countries could give shares in national oil companies or an annual cash dividend to all their citizens, as Alaska has done since the 1970s. If well designed, such schemes could be politically popular and satisfy citizens' demands for sharing in the wealth of their oil-rich countries -- and encourage citizens to scrutinize their governments' finances. Since the 1970s, the oil-producing states have remained far less democratic than other states. In the Middle East, oil wealth has made monarchs and politicians strong and kept citizens weak. So far, even the Arab uprisings this year have failed to change the situation. Meanwhile, thanks to high oil prices, rising global demand for oil, and improved drilling technology, between 15 and 20 low-income countries have recently begun, or are about to begin, exporting oil and natural gas. Most of them are in sub-Saharan Africa. If they mismanage their revenues, they may well fall prey to the oil curse, too. But geology need not be destiny: for both the new oil producers and the old ones, oil is a greater obstacle to democratic reforms when autocrats are able to keep their finances hidden. The money that U.S. consumers send to the oil states helps empower their governments. By reducing U.S. oil consumption and making oil payments more transparent, Americans can start to empower those states' citizens instead.//

//**The spread of democracy is key to stopping nuclear war, terrorism, ethnic conflict, and environmental destruction.**//
//**Diamond 95-** Larry Diamond, Hoover Fellow @ Stanford, Fmr. Advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, December 95//
//On any list of the most important potential threats to world order and national security in the coming decade, these six should figure prominently: a hostile, expansionist Russia; a hostile, expansionist China; the spread of fundamentalist Islamic, anti-Western regimes; the spread of political terrorism from all sources; sharply increased immigration pressures; and ethnic conflict that escalates into large-scale violence, civil war, refugee flows, state collapse, and general anarchy. Some of these potential threats interact in significant ways with one another, but they all share a common underlying connection. In each instance, the development of democracy is an important prophylactic, and in some cases the only long- term protection, against disaster. A HOSTILE, EXPANSIONIST RUSSIA Chief among the threats to the security of Europe, the United States, and Japan would be the reversion of Russia--with its still very substantial nuclear, scientific, and military prowess--to a hostile posture toward the West. Today, the Russian state (insofar as it continues to exist) appears perched on the precipice of capture by ultranationalist, anti-Semitic, neo-imperialist forces seeking a new era of pogroms, conquest, and "greatness." These forces feed on the weakness of democratic institutions, the divisions among democratic forces, and the generally dismal economic and political state of the country under civilian, constitutional rule. Numerous observers speak of "Weimar Russia." As in Germany in the 1920s, the only alternative to a triumph of fascism (or some related "ism" deeply hostile to freedom and to the West) is the development of an effective democratic order. Now, as then, this project must struggle against great historical and political odds, and it seems feasible only with international economic aid and support for democratic forces and institutions. A HOSTILE, EXPANSIONIST CHINA In China, the threat to the West emanates from success rather than failure and is less amenable to explicit international assistance and inducement. Still, a China moving toward democracy--gradually constructing a real constitutional order, with established ground rules for political competition and succession and civilian control over the military--seems a much better prospect to be a responsible player on the regional and international stage. Unfair trade practices, naval power projection, territorial expansion, subversion of neighboring regimes, and bullying of democratic forces in Hong Kong and Taiwan are all more likely the more China resists political liberalization. So is a political succession crisis that could disrupt incremental patterns of reform and induce competing power players to take risks internationally to advance their power positions at home. A China that is building an effective rule of law seems a much better prospect to respect international trading rules that mandate protection for intellectual property and forbid the use of prison labor. And on these matters of legal, electoral, and institutional development, international actors can help. THE SPREAD OF ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISM Increasingly, Europeans and Americans worry about the threat from fundamentalist Islam. But fundamentalist movements do not mobilize righteous anger and absolute commitment in a vacuum. They feed on the utter failure of decadent political systems to meet the most elementary expectations for material progress and social justice. Some say the West must choose between corrupt, repressive regimes that are at least secular and pro-Western and Islamic fundamentalist regimes that will be no less repressive, but anti-Western. That is a false choice in Egypt today, as it was in Iran or Algeria--at least until their societies became so polarized as to virtually obliterate the liberal center. It is precisely the corruption, arrogance, oppression, and gross inefficacy of ruling regimes like the current one in Egypt that stimulate the Islamic fundamentalist alternative. Though force may be needed--and legitimate--to meet an armed challenge, history teaches that decadent regimes cannot hang on forever through force alone. In the long run, the only reliable bulwark against revolution or anarchy is good governance--and that requires far-reaching political reform. In Egypt and some other Arab countries, such reform would entail a gradual program of political liberalization that counters corruption, reduces state interference in the economy, responds to social needs, and gives space for moderate forces in civil society to build public support and understanding for further liberalizing reforms. In Pakistan and Turkey, it would mean making democracy work: stamping out corruption, reforming the economy, mobilizing state resources efficiently to address social needs, devolving power, guaranteeing the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, and--not least-- reasserting civilian control over the military. In either case, the fundamentalist challenge can be met only by moving (at varying speeds) toward, not away from, democracy. POLITICAL TERRORISM Terrorism and immigration pressures also commonly have their origins in political exclusion, social injustice, and bad, abusive, or tyrannical governance. Overwhelmingly, the sponsors of international terrorism are among the world's most authoritarian regimes: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Sudan. And locally within countries, the agents of terrorism tend to be either the fanatics of antidemocratic, ideological movements or aggrieved ethnic and regional minorities who have felt themselves socially marginalized and politically excluded and insecure: Sri Lanka's Tamils, Turkey's Kurds, India's Sikhs and Kashmiris. To be sure, democracies must vigorously mobilize their legitimate instruments of law enforcement to counter this growing threat to their security. But a more fundamental and enduring assault on international terrorism requires political change to bring down zealous, paranoiac dictatorships and to allow aggrieved groups in all countries to pursue their interests through open, peaceful, and constitutional means. As for immigration, it is true that people everywhere are drawn to prosperous, open, dynamic societies like those of the United States, Canada, and Western Europe. But the sources of large (and rapid) immigration flows to the West increasingly tend to be countries in the grip of civil war, political turmoil, economic disarray, and poor governance: Vietnam, Cuba, Haiti, Central America, Algeria. And in Mexico, authoritarianism, corruption, and social injustice have held back human development in ways that have spawned the largest sustained flow of immigrants to any Western country--a flow that threatens to become a floodtide if the Zedillo government cannot rebuild Mexico's economy and societal consensus around authentic democatic reform. In other cases--Ethiopia, Sudan, Nigeria, Afghanistan--immigration to the West has been modest only because of the greater logistical and political difficulties. However, in impoverished areas of Africa and Asia more remote from the West, disarray is felt in the flows of refugees across borders, hardly a benign development for world order. Of course, population growth also heavily drives these pressures. But a common factor underlying all of these crisis-ridden emigration points is the absence of democracy. And, strikingly, populations grow faster in authoritarian than democratic regimes.<span style="color: #000000;">4</span>ETHNIC CONFLICT Apologists for authoritarian rule--as in Kenya and Indonesia--are wont to argue that <span style="color: #000000;">multiparty electoral competition breeds ethnic rivalry and polarization, while strong central control keeps the lid on conflict. But when multiple ethnic and national identities are forcibly suppressed, the lid may violently pop when the regime falls apart. </span>The fate of Yugoslavia, or of Rwanda, dramatically refutes the canard that authoritarian rule is a better means for containing ethnic conflict. Indeed, so does the recent experience of Kenya, where ethnic hatred, land grabs, and violence have been deliberately fostered by the regime of President Daniel arap Moi in a desperate bid to divide the people and thereby cling to power. Overwhelmingly, theory and evidence show that the path to peaceful management of ethnic pluralism lies not through suppressing ethnic identities and superimposing the hegemony of one group over others. Eventually, such a formula is bound to crumble or be challenged violently. Rather<span style="color: #000000;">, sustained interethnic moderation and peace follow from the frank recognition of plural identities, legal protection for group and individual rights, devolution of power to various localities and regions, and political institutions that encourage bargaining and accommodation at the center. Such institutional provisions and protections are </span>not only significantly more likely under democracy, they are <span style="color: #000000;">only possible with some considerable degree of democracy.5 </span>OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. <span style="color: #000000;">Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. </span>Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. LESSONS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY The experience of this century offers important lessons<span style="color: #000000;">. Countries that govern themselves in a truly democratic fashion do not go to war with one another. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. Democratic governments do not ethnically "cleanse" their own populations, </span>and they are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies do not sponsor terrorism against one another. They do not build weapons of mass destruction to use on or to threaten one another. Democratic countries form more reliable, open, and enduring trading partnerships. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment. They are more environmentally responsible because they must answer to their own citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments. They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law<span style="color: #000000;">, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of international security and prosperity can be built. </span>//

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Contention 2 is the Arctic**</span></span>
//**Scenario 1 is Russian Cooperation**//

//**It’s normal means**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK
Meanwhile, the Russian Federation continues to increase throughput along the NSR.As the Barents Observer reported in late January 2012, “This year’s season on the NSR was special in many ways. Not only was the route accessible about one month longer than usual, but it also had the highest number ever of vessels in transit from Murmansk to another country”.[6] In a more recent Barents Observer article, Gazprom and Sovcomflot´s executives suggested “the relevance of LNG shipping along the NSRto the Asian-Pacific region [is] growing quickly”.[7] Clearly then, the Russian Federation expects to make the NSR a viable option between northern Pacific ports and northern Atlantic ports. There are dissenters who would suggest Arctic shipping will not be as safe and profitable as Russian Federation leaders would suggest. In a recent Insurance Journal article entitled, “Arctic Ice Melt Lifts Hopes for Russian Maritime Trade”, authors Albina Kovalyova & Alissa de Carbonnel opined, “industry analysts and mariners say ice floes, narrow straits, shallow waters, poor infrastructure and stormy winters continue to loom as obstacles to safe and profitable shipping through the polar shortcut”.[8] Notwithstanding, Russia continues to demonstrate that the NSR is a viable shipping route. Two years ago the Russian Federation announced it would send five vessels of different classes through the NSR as a proof of principle, meeting the mark. They then publicly stated they would increase that number fivefold. This year reportedly 34 vessels transited the NSR. If increases were to continue at current calculations, within five years, however unlikely, transits would exceed over one hundred thousand. Regardless of how many vessels actually transit the route in coming years, the Russian Federation’s fulfillment of their stated goals should lead observers, and especially policy makers, to believe the NSR will become a major Sea Line of Communication in the not too distant future. Returning to the topic at hand, there are essentially two types of VTSs, manned and unmanned. The Vardø VTS is manned due to the heavy traffic that transits along Norway’s West coast and the need to safeguard critical state enterprises. Whereas, the few number of ships currently transiting the Bering Strait today may make it feasible to have an unmanned VTS until vessel traffic warrants an upgrade. An unmanned system would likely be monitored remotely both from Russia and the United States, using sensors to track and control Bering Strait traffic. Additionally, a traffic separation plan must be submitted and approved by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). For example, should north bound traffic transit east of Little Diomede Island and southbound traffic transit west of Big Diomede? These are details that must be negotiated between the United States and the Russian Federation. Clearly gas and oil traffic are expected to increase in the near-term, evidenced by Shell’s CEO Peter Voser’s 31 January Fox Business interview. "For us the focus is in Alaska and to some extent in Greenland, although in the coming years there may also be opportunities in Russia," stated Voser.[9] Shell is not the only company expecting to profit from Arctic oil and gas. Norway’s Statoil, Total, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips are all set to exploit the reported 90 billion barrels of oil, up to 50 trillion cubic meters of natural gas and 44 billion barrels of natural gas liquids that the 2008 US Geological Survey suggests are in the Arctic. Therefore, it is essential to mitigate the accompanying risk of increased Bering Strait vessel traffic by resourcing a VTS.

**That solves relations and Arctic security issues**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span> || RT)
Internationally, the resulting level of cooperation ensuing from bilateral negotiations between the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US State Department could serve to further reset the US-Russian relations. Potentially, the Russian Duma may be encouraged to ratify the US-Russia Maritime Boundary. Environmentalists may be less concerned about the risk of oil and gas spills. The US Coast Guard and the Russian Federation Border Guard could better enforce international and national laws. Insurance companies like Lloyd’s of London who hold maritime liabilities may be more inclined to reduce shipping companies rates, saving companies who use the NSR the money that can then be reinvested. Alternately, as this international waterway opens to international trade the threats to US and Russian security will increase. Having a national presence at the gateway to the Arctic could mitigate potential criminal or hostile acts and deter illicit activity. Finally, having an International Maritime Organization certified Bering Strait VTS fulfills the pledge made by Arctic nations to enhance Arctic marine safety, to protect the marine environment and expand Arctic marine infrastructure.

**Arctic issues are the most probable and biggest 21st century threat- US action towards multilateralism is necessary**
**Borgerson 08-** the visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and an adjunct senior research scholar at Columbia University (Scott G., 2008, “Arctic Meltdown”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63222/scott-g-borgerson/arctic-meltdown?page=show</span> || RT)
Despite the melting icecap's potential to transform global shipping and energy markets, Arctic issues are largely ignored at senior levels in the U.S. State Department and the U.S. National Security Council. The most recent executive statement on the Arctic dates to 1994 and does not mention the retreating ice. But the Arctic's strategic location and immense resource wealth make it an important national interest. Although the melting Arctic holds great promise, it also poses grave dangers. The combination of new shipping routes, trillions of dollars in possible oil and gas resources, and a poorly defined picture of state ownership makes for a toxic brew. The situation is especially dangerous because there are currently no overarching political or legal structures that can provide for the orderly development of the region or mediate political disagreements over Arctic resources or sea-lanes. The Arctic has always been frozen; as ice turns to water, it is not clear which rules should apply. The rapid melt is also rekindling numerous interstate rivalries and attracting energy-hungry newcomers, such as China, to the region. The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories, such as the desolate but resource-rich Spratly Islands, where multiple states claim sovereignty but no clear picture of ownership exists. There are few legal frameworks that offer guidance. The Arctic Council does exist to address environmental issues, but it has remained silent on the most pressing challenges facing the region because the United States purposefully emasculated it at birth, in 1996, by prohibiting it from addressing security concerns. Many observers argue that UNCLOS is the correct tool to manage the thawing Arctic. The convention provides mechanisms for states to settle boundary disputes and submit claims for additional resources beyond their exclusive economic zones. Furthermore, UNCLOS sets aside the resources in the high seas as the common heritage of humankind, it allows states bordering ice-covered waters to enforce more stringent environmental regulations, and it defines which seaways are the sovereign possessions of states and which international passages are open to unfettered navigation. However, UNCLOS cannot be seamlessly applied to the Arctic. The region's unique geographic circumstances do not allow for a neat application of this legal framework. The Arctic is home to a number of vexing problems that, taken in their entirety, make it a special case. These unresolved challenges include carving up the world's longest uncharted and most geologically complex continental shelf among five states with competing claims, resolving differences between Canada and the rest of the world over how to legally define the Northwest Passage, demarcating maritime borders between the United States and Canada in the Beaufort Sea and between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea, and regulating vessels shielded behind flags of convenience (which obscure the true origin and ownership of the vessels) as they travel across numerous national jurisdictions. Finally, increased oil and gas exploration and the trans-Arctic shipping that comes with it will pose serious environmental risks. Oil tankers present a particularly grave environmental threat, as illustrated by three recent oil spills in the much safer waters of the San Francisco Bay, the Black Sea, and the Yellow Sea. There are also a handful of unresolved issues at play in the Arctic that are not covered under UNCLOS. Between 1958 and 1992, Russia dumped 18 nuclear reactors into the Arctic Ocean, several of them still fully loaded with nuclear fuel. This hazard still needs to be cleaned up. Furthermore, the Arctic region is home to one million indigenous people, who deserve to have a say in the region's future, especially as regards their professed right to continue hunting bowhead whales, their safety alongside what will become bustling shipping lanes, and their rightful share of the economic benefits that Arctic development will bring. With the prospect of newfound energy wealth, there is also growing talk of Greenland petitioning Denmark for political independence. Finally, there has been an explosion in polar tourism, often involving ships unsuited for navigation in the region. Last year, 140 cruise ships carried 4,000 intrepid travelers for holidays off Greenland's icy coast, a dangerous journey in largely uncharted waters. Although it is tempting to look to the past for solutions to the Arctic conundrum, no perfect analogy exists. The 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which froze all territorial claims and set aside the continent for scientific research, provides some lessons, but it concerns a continent rather than an ocean. Moreover, Antarctica is far removed from major trade routes, and negotiations unfolded in the entirely different context of the Cold War. As a body of water that links several large economies, the Mediterranean Sea is somewhat similar to the Arctic Ocean, but its littoral states have always had clearer historical claims, and it has never been covered with ice, at least not in human history. There is simply no comparable historical example of a saltwater space with such ambiguous ownership, such a dramatically mutating seascape, and such extraordinary economic promise. The region's remarkable untapped resource wealth and unrealized potential to become a fast lane between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans makes it a key emerging pressure point in international affairs. At this critical juncture, decisions about how to manage this rapidly changing region will likely be made within a diplomatic and legal vacuum unless the United States steps forward to lead the international community toward a multilateral solution.

**Arctic conflict has a low threshold and big escalation**
**Staples 09**- Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years. In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”

**Scenario 2 is Readiness**

**Current arctic navigational operations fail and increase arctic terrorism and piracy.**
**Conley 12** (Heather, Heather Conley serves as director and senior fellow of the Europe Program at CSIS. Prior to joining CSIS, Ms. Conley served as senior adviser to the Center for European Policy Analysis, an independent, nonpartisan public policy research institute dedicated to the study of Central Europe. From 2005–2008, Ms. Conley served as the executive director, Office of the Chairman of the Board of the American National Red Cross, where she focused her efforts on developing the first comprehensive reform to the governance structure of the American Red Cross Board since 1947, incorporating best governance practices for nonprofit and for-profit sectors., “Security Challenges and Opportunities in a Changing Arctic Environment”, This article has been excerpted from the CSIS Europe Program report entitled “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective”. For the complete report, please visit: <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.67px;">[[http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic|__http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic__]]</span>, April 26, 2012, http://www.e-ir.info/2012/04/26/security-challenges-and-opportunities-in-a-changing-arctic-environment/)//SK//
//The Arctic region is experiencing rapid and extraordinary environmental changes. As sea ice extent is dramatically reduced, fish stocks migrate further north and human activity increases, these changes are likely to alter the dynamics of regional commercial, human, and state interaction. For the United States, the Arctic will take on greater economic importance in the future and will require a comprehensive security strategy that includes increased regional readiness and border security, as well as an enhancement of strategic capabilities. The security challenges in the Arctic are vast, including search and rescue, environmental remediation, piracy, terrorism, natural and man-made disaster response, and border protection. There is presently a near absence of satellite coverage, limited hydrographic mapping, difficulties of ice forecasting, and mobility constraints of ice-strengthened equipment. A coherent surveillance of ice thickness does not currently exist, a critical factor when operating tankers, oil platforms, and cruise ships in the Arctic. This problem is exacerbated by the vacillation of sea ice, which makes safe navigation of the harsh territory more difficult. In addition, magnetic and solar phenomena limit communications equipment above 70 degrees north. The Second World War and the Cold War were the defining historical frameworks for U.S. engagement in the Arctic. During World War II, the United States needed to create supply routes by air and by sea to resupply the Soviet front through the port of Murmansk and to fend off any possible Japanese invasion of Alaska. This justified the construction of a portion of the Alaskan highway system. At the height of the Cold War, the proximity of U.S. Arctic territory to the Soviet Union was the impetus for creating a continental defense and deterrence system, the Distant Early Warning, or DEW, Line. Much of the U.S. security infrastructure that remains in the region was constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. As the Cold War’s existential threat has faded in recent decades, U.S. Arctic capabilities have also been in decline. U.S. Arctic territory occupies only a small portion of the Arctic region as a whole and is far from the political and economic centers of the country. Although Alaska serves the natural resource needs and military interests of the United States, it has not been a major focus of U.S. policy. With the exceptions of the global missile defense architecture based at Fort Greeley and the U.S. government’s ongoing scientific research work, the U.S. security approach toward the Arctic has largely been to outsource requirements to foreign-flagged commercial vessels or to borrow ice-strengthened vessels from Canada, Russia, or Sweden. For many senior U.S. homeland security officials, the concept of border security relates to overall U.S. counterterrorism efforts, its southern border with Mexico, and drug and human interdiction – the most northern borders of the United States receive far less attention. As the U.S. defense and homeland security budgets are increasingly constrained, increased spending for regions that do not pose an immediate threat seems unlikely. Unable to make difficult and future budget decisions, Washington reverts to a near-constant assessment process of U.S. infrastructure and security needs in the Arctic (such as the upcoming FY2014 Navy Arctic Capabilities Based Assessment), suggesting that an endless assessment process is equivalent to taking decisions on a future course of action. In stark contrast, other Arctic coastal nations have declared the Arctic a main strategic area of interest and have placed budgetary resources behind their lofty development plans. Russia, for example, has clearly made the Arctic a priority in documents such as the National Security Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2020 and has backed these goals with investment in icebreakers, regional coordination centers and other border enhancements. Russia has also created incentives to encourage oil and gas development in its Arctic territories. By the end of 2011, Russia had plans to establish a brigade especially equipped and prepared for military warfare in Arctic conditions. The 200 motorized infantry brigade in Pechenga, some 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the Russian-Norwegian border, is the first such unit. In addition, the Russian military is considering the deployment of paratroopers from the Arctic Spetsnaz brigade. The United States is the only Arctic coastal state that does not currently have any large-scale economic development plan for the region and has a woeful lack of Arctic military capabilities. The most definitive declaration of U.S. policy toward the Arctic, the National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-66) on Arctic Region Policy, articulates the most pressing U.S. security interests in the region: missile defense and early-warning systems ; deployment of sea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight; and preventing terrorist attacks and mitigating criminal or hostile acts that could increase U.S. vulnerability to terrorism in the Arctic region. NSPD-66 also addresses governance, scientific cooperation, environmental issues, boundaries and continental shelf disputes, and economic developments.//

//**Arctic terrorism leads to nuclear and biological warfare**//
//**Mychajlyszyn 08** (Natalie, International Affairs, Trade and Finance Division, “The Arctic: Canadian Security and Defence”, 24 October 2008, http://www.parl.gc.ca/Content/LOP/ResearchPublications/prb0813-e.htm#illegalaccess)//SK
Increased illegal access and illegal activities, including terrorism As the Arctic generally becomes more accessible because of the warming climate, some analysts predict the emergence of new security threats.(6) One such risk is that of an increase in illegal migration and trafficking in persons to North America through the Arctic. There are also fears of the North being used as a thoroughfare for drug trafficking as well as a destination for illegal narcotics. In the post-September 11 era, fears have been raised concerning the increased vulnerability of the Arctic as a passage for terrorists, whether for illegal entry into North America or for the transport of illegal weapons, including biological and chemical devices. To such a list of activities, generally perpetrated by organized crime groups, can be added the rise of other types of organized crime, such as those involving industries engaged in the extraction of lucrative resources, such as diamonds and copper.

**That’s war**
**Rhodes 09** (Richard Rhodes, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award., “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, 12-14-09, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)//SK//
//The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen. Richard Lugar surveyed PDF them in 2005. This group of 85 experts judged that the possibility of a WMD attack against a city or other target somewhere in the world is real and increasing over time. The median estimate of the risk of a nuclear attack somewhere in the world by 2010 was 10 percent. The risk of an attack by 2015 doubled to 20 percent median. There was strong, though not universal, agreement that a nuclear attack is more likely to be carried out by a terrorist organization than by a government. The group was split 45 to 55 percent on whether terrorists were more likely to obtain an intact working nuclear weapon or manufacture one after obtaining weapon-grade nuclear material. “The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is not just a security problem,” Lugar wrote in the report’s introduction. “It is the economic dilemma and the moral challenge of the current age. On September 11, 2001, the world witnessed the destructive potential of international terrorism. But the September 11 attacks do not come close to approximating the destruction that would be unleashed by a nuclear weapon. Weapons of mass destruction have made it possible for a small nation, or even a sub-national group, to kill as many innocent people in a day as national armies killed in months of fighting during World War II. “The bottom line is this,” Lugar concluded: “For the foreseeable future, the United States and other nations will face an existential threat from the intersection of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.” It’s paradoxical that a diminished threat of a superpower nuclear exchange should somehow have resulted in a world where the danger of at least a single nuclear explosion in a major city has increased (and that city is as likely, or likelier, to be Moscow as it is to be Washington or New York). We tend to think that a terrorist nuclear attack would lead us to drive for the elimination of nuclear weapons. I think the opposite case is at least equally likely: A terrorist nuclear attack would almost certainly be followed by a retaliatory nuclear strike on whatever country we believed to be sheltering the perpetrators. That response would surely initiate a new round of nuclear armament and rearmament in the name of deterrence, however illogical. Think of how much 9/11 frightened us; think of how desperate our leaders were to prevent any further such attacks; think of the fact that we invaded and occupied a country, Iraq, that had nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.//

//**Other agencies don’t solve---they rely on Coast Guard action.**//
//**Alaska Dispatch 12** (“War games gauge US Navy's huge Arctic readiness gap”, Apr 30, 2012, http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/war-games-gauge-us-navys-huge-arctic-readiness-gap)//SK
It should surprise no one who follows Arctic matters, but according to the Kodiak Daily Mirror (via the Juneau Empire), fictional war games recently completed by a department of the U.S. Naval War College indicate the U.S. Navy is very unprepared to conduct significant security or disaster response missions by itself in the Arctic region, and unless the government's focus changes, is likely to remain that way. Eighty-eight participants from industry, government and the Navy's top command came together and found that as a force the Navy lacks practically everything that would allow sustained operation in the region, even cold-weather clothing. “We have limited capability to sustain long-term operations in the Arctic due to inadequate icebreaking capability,” Walter Berbrick, an assistant research professor at the Center for Naval Warfare studies, said. “The Navy finds itself entering a new realm as it relates to having to rely on other nations.” One of the most critical conclusions to come from the games is that if a crisis should happen in Arctic waters, the Navy would have to join with the U.S. Coast Guard and other countries, localities and private industries to respond effectively. The Coast Guard, because it already sporadically operates in the Arctic, would likely take the lead. “We are the only Arctic nation without an Arctic strategy,” said U.S. Navy Cmdr. Blake McBride, Arctic Affairs officer for Task Force Climate Change. “The Coast Guard and Department of Defense are working on a strategy to help answer the issue, and advocate for capabilities.” "Advocate for capabilities" means squeezing necessary funding from a U.S. government that has so far shown little interest in its role in the rapidly changing Arctic.

**New infrastructure and navigational operations solve readiness.**
**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK//
//In July 2011, the Coast Guard provided to Congress a study on the Coast Guard’s missions and capabilities for operations in high-latitude (i.e., polar) areas. The study, commonly known as the High Latitude Study, is dated July 2010 on its cover. The High Latitude Study concluded the following: [The study] concludes that future [Coast Guard] capability and capacity gaps will significantly impact four [Coast Guard] mission areas in the Arctic: Defense Readiness, Ice Operations, Marine Environmental Protection, and Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security. These mission areas address the protection of important national interests in a geographic area where other nations are actively pursuing their own national goals. U.S. national policy and laws define the requirements to assert the nation’s jurisdiction over its territory and interests; to ensure the security of its people and critical infrastructure; to participate fully in the collection of scientific knowledge; to support commercial enterprises with public utility; and to ensure that the Arctic environment is not degraded by increased human activity. The Coast Guard’s ability to support Defense Readiness mission requirements in the Arctic is closely linked to DoD responsibilities. The Coast Guard presently possesses the only surface vessels capable of operating in ice-covered and ice-diminished waters. The Coast Guard supports (1) DoD missions such as the resupply of Thule Air Base in Greenland and logistics support (backup) for McMurdo Station in Antarctica and (2) Department of State (DoS) directed Freedom of Navigation Operations. These unique Coast Guard capabilities have been noted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Navy’s Task Force Climate Change, and the recently issued Naval Operations Concept 2010. The common and dominant contributor to these significant mission impacts is the gap in polar icebreaking capability....223 Other capability gaps contributing to the impact on Coast Guard ability to carry out its missions in the Arctic include: • Communications System Capability – Continuous coverage along Alaska’s West Coast, the Bering Strait, and throughout the North Slope is required for exchanging voice and data communications with Coast Guard units and other government and commercial platforms offshore. • Forward Operating Locations - No suitable facilities currently exist on the North Slope or near the Bering Strait with facilities sufficient to support extended aircraft servicing and maintenance. Aircraft must travel long distances and expend significant time transiting to and from adequate facilities. This gap reduces on-scene presence and capability to support sustained operations in the region. • Environmental response in ice-covered waters - The technology and procedures for assessment and mitigation measures for oil spills in ice-covered waters are not fully developed or tested. Capability gaps in the Arctic region have moderate impacts on [the Coast Guard’s] Aids to Navigation (AtoN), Search and Rescue (SAR), and Other Law Enforcement (OLE) missions. Both AtoN and SAR involve the safety of mariners and will gain more importance not only as commerce and tourism cause an increase in maritime traffic, but as U.S. citizens in northern Alaska face more unpredictable conditions. Performance of OLE will be increasingly necessary to ensure the integrity of U.S. living marine resources from outside pressures.... In addition to the assessment of polar icebreaking needs, the Arctic mission analysis examined a set of theoretical mixes (force packages) of Coast Guard assets consisting of icebreakers, their embarked helicopters, and deployment alternatives using aviation forward operating locations in Arctic Alaska.... All [six] of the force mixes [considered in the study] add assets to the existing Coast Guard Alaska Patrol consisting of (1) a high-endurance cutter (not an icebreaker) deployed in the Bering Sea carrying a short range recovery helicopter, and (2) medium range recovery helicopters located at Kodiak in the Gulf of Alaska, and seasonally deployed to locations in Cold Bay and St. Paul Island.... These force packages and associated risk assessment provide a framework for acquisition planning as the Coast Guard implements a strategy for closing the capability gaps. By first recapitalizing the aging icebreakers, the Coast Guard provides a foundation for buildout of these force mixes. In addition to the cost of the icebreakers, the force packages require investment in forward operating locations and in medium range helicopters. The mission analysis reports developed rough order-of-magnitude cost estimates for forward operating locations at approximately $36M [million] each and for helicopters at $9M each.... The analysis shows that the current Coast Guard deployment posture is not capable of effective response in northern Alaska and that response may be improved through a mix of deployed cutters, aircraft, and supporting infrastructure including forward operating locations and communications/navigation systems.224//

//**Scenario 3 is Search and Rescue**//

//**Status quo is ruining SAR because of a lack of infrastructure- Aff solves**//
//**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK
The possibility of increased sea and air traffic through Arctic waters has increased concerns regarding Arctic-area search and rescue capabilities. Given the location of current U.S. Coast Guard operating bases, it could take Coast Guard aircraft several hours, and Coast Guard cutters days or even weeks, to reach a ship or a downed aircraft in distress in Arctic waters. In addition, the harsh climate complicates search and rescue operations in the region. Particular concern has been expressed about cruise ships that may experience problems and need assistance; there have already been incidents of this kind in recent years in waters off Antarctica. A May 7, 2011, press report stated: U.S. and Canadian military commanders say they are examining their rescue capabilities in the Arctic as a shrinking ice cap brought about by climate change opens up rich oil and gas reserves and draws more commercial traffic to the top of the globe.... [U.S. Admiral James Winnefeld, commander of the U.S. Northern Command and the North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD] and NORAD’S deputy commander, Canadian Forces Lt. Gen. Marcel Duval, said more ships in the Arctic Ocean - and more jetliners crossing Arctic skies - could mean more emergencies. “More ships, more chances of accidents,” Duval said in a separate interview in his office at NORAD headquarters at Peterson. Last summer, the Canadian Coast Guard rescued 197 people from the cruise ship Clipper Adventurer, which ran aground inside the Arctic Circle.... Sea traffic is still light, with only about 25 ships a year currently crossing the maritime Arctic boundary between Alaska and the Yukon. But that number is increasing by 10 to 15 percent a year, according to NORAD statistics. Civilian air traffic over the Arctic is booming. U.S. and Canadian aviation agencies report more than 9,600 civilian flights across the North Pole in 2010, up nearly 21 percent from 2008.154 One option for mitigating the risks associated with cruise ship operations in the Arctic would be to require the vessels to sail in pairs, so that if one ship experiences a problem, the other one could quickly come to its aid. Increasing U.S. Coast Guard search and rescue capabilities for the Arctic could require one or more of the following: enhancing or creating new Coast Guard operating bases in the region; procuring additional Arctic-capable aircraft, cutters, and rescue boats for the Coast Guard; and adding systems to improve Arctic maritime communications, navigation, and domain awareness.155 It may also entail enhanced forms of cooperation with navies and coast guards of other Arctic countries.

**Effective Arctic Search and Rescue allows the deployment of V-22 Ospreys**
**Skinner 11** (Tony, former manager of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, “USN pushes Osprey for "extreme" Arctic SAR”, Current Issue - Fall 2011, http://www.boeing.com/ospreynews/2011/issue_01/versatile_s40_p2.html)//SK//
//The U.S. Navy team behind the V-22 Osprey has made an ardent case for the advantages of fielding the tiltrotor in the search and rescue (SAR) role. In a newly released report, the navy’s V-22 Joint Program Office (PMA-275) argues that to fully appreciate the benefits the Osprey could bring to SAR operations, a ‘fresh look’ at the aircraft’s capabilities is required. “SAR professionals can benefit from a re-evaluation of all available equipment in support of SAR tenets. Any re-evaluation should include addressing the limitations of legacy VTOL technology, and should include analyses of tiltrotor aircraft and how to exploit this game-changing aircraft,” the report stated. It said the tiltrotor would resolve current mid-mission hover limitations for US and international SAR agencies, providing an extended-range, high-speed capability without losing the advantages of a vertical medium lift platform. Casting its argument in the context of a growing number of cruise ships exploring the Arctic Ocean and the potential for disaster therein, PMA-275 contended that there is a “moral obligation to provide victims with the most professionally trained and capable resources possible.” Under the US National Search and Rescue Plan (NSP), responsibility for maritime and aeronautical SAR operations falls to the US Coast Guard (USCG), while the USAF covers mainland aeronautical SAR and US Pacific Command holds responsibility for Alaska. Current long- and medium-range search platforms include fixed-wing Lockheed Martin C-130 variants (8,300km range) with both the USCG and USAF, in addition to the coast guard’s Dassault HU-25 (3,300km) and CASA HC-144 (5,000km) aircraft. However, the report maintains that the shorter-range Eurocopter HH-65 (675km) and medium-range Sikorsky HH-60 (830km) ‘lack the high speed, long range and capacity as compared to the V-22’ (4,900km ferry range with aerial refuelling). PMA-275 also highlighted the V-22’s other “game-changing factors”, which include increased speed to recovery (485km/h in sustained cruise to 575km/h maximum), midmission hover, normal altitude (with passengers) up to 13,000ft and its multirole nature. “USCG and USAF rescue coordination centres (RCC) can enhance the V-22’s long-range capabilities through aerial refuelling and/or internal tanks,” the report stated. “The RCC could use the V-22 cargo capacity of 20,000lbs and fixed-wing altitude capability in support of operations to transport personnel, recover a larger number of survivors when needed and deliver supplies at a faster rate than legacy rotorcraft.” With the Arctic increasingly opening up to commercial shipping, the USN released its Arctic roadmap in October 2009, which called for analyses and assessments of the requirements of the SAR mission in the region. PMA-275 believes that any analysis should look at the ability of tiltrotor technology to address emergencies in such an extreme maritime environment. “The Arctic ice retreat emphasises the need to ensure vertical-lift aircraft availability for securing Arctic border areas, conducting SAR operations, maintaining US maritime and homeland security and protecting commerce,” the report said, adding that the V-22 can operate in temperatures as low as -54°C. According to PMA-275, multiple fixed- and rotarywing organisations are currently looking at applications for the Osprey. A spokesman confirmed that, in response to inquiries from both international and US domestic agencies, recommendations had been made on how the V-22 could be employed as a SAR platform. Perhaps surprisingly, the report suggested that the V-22’s ‘viability as a civil and military platform is growing as interested countries face fiscal restraints and increasing mission demands, and struggle with finding the right technology to support those demands’. Hitting back at criticism of the cost of the aircraft, PMA-275 claimed that, due to the Osprey’s blending of turboprop and helicopter operations, the tiltrotor was more operationally and cost-effective than a mix of platforms and had the potential to further lower infrastructure footprint costs. This latest report will come as welcome ammunition for Bell-Boeing’s sales team, members of which have expressed frustration that the requirements for new SAR aircraft are still largely written with the conventional helicopter in mind. For example, the USAF’s Personnel Recovery Recapitalization Program (HH-60 Recap) is calling for a platform capable of sustaining 130kts true air speed and a straightline unrefuelled combat mission radius of 220nm.//

//**V-22s are key to airpower**//
//**Settergren 00** (Daniel J., USAF Major, “NEW MISSIONS FOR THE CV-22 ‘OSPREY’ IN A CHANGING WORLD”, Research paper submitted to Air Command and Staff College, Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, April 2000, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA394968)//SK
The CV-22 is a new generation of aircraft that can take off and land like a helicopter and cruise like a fixed-wing airplane. This ability allows the aircraft to operate from small, unprepared landing zones or aircraft carriers like a helicopter and then transition to cruise mode where it can fly at speeds comparable to the C-130, which is two to three times faster than a helicopter. As an added benefit, the CV-22 has a much greater unrefueled range than most helicopters. According to a draft tactics manual being developed for the CV-22 at HQ AFSOC, the “critical aircraft features of the CV-22 will include: long-range, high-speed, passenger load capability; vertical/short takeoff and landing (V/STOL) capability; air refueling as a receiver from strategic (KC-135, KC-10) and tactical (MC-130E/H/P) tankers; first-pass precision navigation; robust self-defensive avionics; day/night TF/TA radar; defensive armament and logistics supportability in the field. The aircraft will have a combat radius of 500 nautical miles. The CV-22 will be fully shipboard compatible with self-folding prop-rotors.” Current plans call for the CV-22 to perform many of the missions already performed by the PAVELOW and COMBAT TALON. Missions such as infiltration, exfiltration, resupply, and Combat Search and Rescue will its primary roles. AFSOC has also identified the potential for expanded roles in “counterproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, increased humanitarian assistance, and counter-drug operations.” With the ability to fly at the speed of a C-130 and at ranges exceeding that of most helicopters, the CV-22 will be able to conduct missions that were impossible in the past. The 1980 attempt to rescue American’s held hostage in Iran provides an excellent example of how the OSPREY will improve the operational capabilities of SOF. During the attempted rescue mission, MC-130 aircraft landed at a desolate location in Iran known as Desert One. Their primary objective was to provide a source of fuel for the Navy CH-53 helicopters as they traveled to their first night’s hide site. Due to the range and speed of the CH-53s, the mission had to be planned for two periods of darkness. As history records, it was at Desert One that the mission failed due to a lack of usable helicopters and a tragic accident that occurred while helicopters were repositioning for their return to bade. Had the refueling operation been successful, more risks in the original mission lay ahead. The greatest risk to secrecy was maintaining the element of surprise. In order for the mission to be successful, the helicopters had to be hidden during the day so that they could complete the surprise assault on the embassy on the second night. If this mission could be replayed with CV-22s in the place of CH-53s, the outcome would have, in likelihood, been very different. The CV-22 would have allowed the mission to be completed in one night without the need for a ground-refueling site, thereby eliminating many of the critical risk factors for the mission.

**Airpower is key to softpower**
**Bellflower 08** (John W., Major Bellflower is an active duty Air Force Judge Advocate currently pursuing a Master of Laws Degree in Air and Space Law at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. Upon completion of his studies, he will be assigned to Air Force Space Command at Peterson AFB, CO. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the United States Air Force, Department of Defense, or the U.S. Government., “The Soft Side of Airpower”, Small Wars Journal, 2008, https://docs.google.com/a/g.coppellisd.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:6KOkdsIGgtYJ:smallwarsjournal.com/mag/docs-temp/161-bellflower.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjRoF5Eev3io2xGzOykMFMRtQHO0AmxIme1MsPD1y-C0ZWWUivF3cywd4mufa28dcd4aeEVZ9UMd71XBC4kJbtg5Dh-W7Tjpowr9lK0aHI1U57LbwBDvgGf0GLYSHXZ4AJt-BEc&sig=AHIEtbT4iq17w94nuOh8_Hix1Inm_rFQ3A&pli=1)//SK//
//In the field of international relations, soft power refers to the ability of a nation to use its culture, political values, and foreign policy to attract and persuade others to adopt its goals. 13 It is contrasted with the hard power of military might and economic policies designed to achieve a desired result through coercion (or sometimes bribery). Merging the concept of soft power with airpower, however, results in something a little different. Soft airpower is a mechanism by which military skill sets can be used to achieve the same goals of traditional soft power. Soft airpower, then, is the use of airpower to meet the human security needs of a target population. By refocusing our airpower effort, to an extent, on constructive uses that meet the human security needs of a particular target population rather than on destructive uses that could drive that population into the arms of the terrorist movement, or at least cause them to remain ambivalent, we can demonstrate the illegitimacy of that movement and increase support for the counterterrorist effort. In other words, we can trade kinetic effects for magnetic effects. While kinetic effects are produced to subdue an enemy, magnetic effects are those that seek to attract a target population and persuade them to co-opt our goals and thereby remove a potential breeding ground for terrorism. These magnetic effects can only be had through the use of soft airpower; hard, or lethal, airpower never attracts, it coerces or repels by killing. In a counterinsurgency environment, the fight is for legitimacy in the eyes of the majority of the population, thus killing does not work. In almost every case, the population is composed of a minority for the insurgent’s cause and a minority for the government’s cause. The goal, then, for counterinsurgent forces is to be accepted as legitimate by the uncommitted majority. 14 This legitimacy can be gained through the provision of human security. Thus, soft airpower is not about killing people and breaking things, but rather healing people and building things. Given the threat that will surely occupy our future, the melding of airpower and humanitarian and security skill sets is imperative to ensure strategic success.//

//**No risk of a turn---hardpower kills cooperation and only softpower solves**//
//**Crossley 11/18** (Alexander, Politics & Parliamentary Studies student at the University of Leeds, quoting China Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying, “China: America’s Asian pivot misguided and dangerous; trust and economic cooperation better”, China Daily Mail, November 18, 2012, http://chinadailymail.com/2012/11/18/china-americas-asian-pivot-misguided-and-dangerous-trust-and-economic-cooperation-with-better/)//SK
Today the freshly re-elected President Obama is heading for Asia, taking in Cambodia, Burma and Thailand. His trip, the first since he won the election, is clearly aimed to secure friends in a region that is increasingly important. Sadly the core US strategy of military presence hasn’t changed, and for as long as America believes it can guide China’s development through brute force, tensions will only escalate. One of the centrepieces of the Obama administration has been its military pivot towards Asia, moving away from middle-east engagements and towards ensuring China doesn’t dominate the region. The policy epitomises American thinking that most global problems can be solved through military presence, but sadly they’ve ignored the benefits of diplomacy and humanitarian assistance. Concentrating on military strength will only increase the pressure between the USA and China, souring international relations and ruining the possibilities for meaningful alliances to develop. The US has been increasing regional pressure, moving military assets into the region (such as an increased marine presence in Darwin Australia) and pressing its allies to allow the stationing of military bases in their territory (Thailand). However, this emphasis on military presence is doing more to alienate Asian nations than ensure their support. Thailand is gradually standing up to American pressure and beginning to look towards Chinese friendship, which it sees as more mutually beneficial. Other countries will be increasingly enticed to do the same as China’s pull becomes stronger. China is taking a different tack to its international relations, one virtually guaranteed to have more long-lasting success. I’ve written elsewhere about China’s relatively slow military development, and how Chinese military spending won’t reach US levels until a full 10 years (2035) after it becomes the world’s biggest economy. This fact demonstrates that whilst China might occasionally engage in military posturing with other major regional players, it is not aggressively pursuing military capabilities. Instead China is concentrating on building bilateral and regional ties. The Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying has said that: “While developing ourselves, we must bring benefits to our neighbours and deepen the bond of mutual benefit with them. Only in this way would we be able to preserve peace and stability in the region and move forward with our neighbours toward shared prosperity and a common destiny.” By getting closer to its regional neighbours and making sure its own development helps other Asian nations, China is undermining outdated American efforts. For years China has been investing in regional ties by offering loans, aid ($2.1bn since ’92) and technical assistance to countries such as Cambodia. Over the last 6 years, more than $8bn has been invested in Cambodia by China, paling $900million invested by American firms. This is the kind of assistance the USA is starting to slowly realise it needs provide, but it no longer has the free-flowing finances that once gave America the ability to project its ambitions around the globe. This is not to say that the US is impotent on the world stage, but it needs to look past outdated military solutions. American human rights and democratic procedure are envied around the world, and can certainly provide a template for reform in countries such as Burma, one of the stops on Obama’s tour. I am by no means saying American democracy is perfect; issues surrounding lobbying and money in politics are well-known. However, the fundamental entrenchment of civil liberties is highly attractive to many who advocate the type of virtues espoused by Burma’s opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi. China may be the primary economic partner for Japan, Australia and other Asian players, but for security they turn to America and will continue to do so until China proves it can be trusted. It will take both nations to cool international relations and prevent a catastrophic build-up of tension. America must get past its own ego and realise China is not inherently evil; America cannot lead the world forever. It may have a different political history, but China’s economics are increasingly pro-market and its human rights are developing at a pace that puts historic Western liberal development to shame. Combatting corruption, working with the US on trans-Pacific free trade agreements and accelerating the process of democratisation that has begun in rural areas will all encourage faith in China’s ability to assume the top spot at the global table.

**Specifically, hardpower kill US-EU relations, softpower increases relations**
**Nye 04** (Joseph, former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Soft Power, The Means to Success in World Politics,”)
There is increasing evidence that the policies and tone of the new unilateralists were directly responsible for the decline of America s attractiveness abroad. A survey conducted a month before September II, 2001, found that Western Europeans already described the Bush administration’s approach to foreign policy as unilateralist. Nearly two years later, the Iraq War hardened these perceptions: pluralities of respondents said that American foreign policy had a negative effect on their views of the United States.1O8 In a dramatic turnabout from the Cold War strong majorities in Europe now see U.S. unilateralism as an important international threat to Europe in the next ten years. Nearly nine in ten French and Germans share this point of view, perceiving the threat of U.S. unilateralism as comparable to the threats represented by North Koreas or Iran’s developing weapons of mass destruction. Even among the Iraq coalition allies, Britain and Poland, two-thirds of these countries’ populations agree that U.S. unilateralism is an important threat.109

**Cooperation accesses every global impact—especially the Balkans**
**Stivachtis 10**<span style="color: #000000;">– Director of International Studies Program @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute [Dr. Yannis. A. Stivachtis (Professor of Poli Sci @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute & Ph.D. in Politics & International Relations from Lancaster University), THE IMPERATIVE FOR TRANSATLANTIC COOPERATION,” The Research Institute for European and American Studies, 2010, pg. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.67px;">[[http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html|__http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html__]]</span><span style="color: #000000;">]</span>
There is no doubt that US-European relations are in aperiod of transition, and that the stresses and strains of globalization are increasing both the number and the seriousness of the challenges that confront transatlantic relations. The events of 9/11 and the Iraq War have added significantly to these stresses and strains. At the same time, internationalterrorism, thenuclearization ofNorth KoreaandespeciallyIran, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), the transformation ofRussiainto a stable and cooperative member of the international community, the growing power ofChina,the politicaland economic transformation andintegration oftheCaucasianandCentral Asianstates, the integrationandstabilization of theBalkancountries, the promotion ofpeace and stability in theMiddleEast,poverty, climate change, AIDS and otheremergentproblemsand situationsrequirefurthercooperationamong countries at the regional, global and institutional levels. Therefore,cooperation between the U.S. and Europe ismoreimperativethan everto deal effectively with these problems. It is fair to say that the challenges of crafting a new relationship between the U.S. and the EU as well as between the U.S. and NATO are more regional than global, but the implications of success or failure will be global. The transatlantic relationship is still in crisis, despite efforts to improve it since the Iraq War. This is not to say that differences between the two sides of the Atlantic did not exist before the war. Actually, post-1945 relations between Europe and the U.S. were fraught with disagreements and never free of crisis since the Suez crisis of 1956. Moreover, despite trans-Atlantic proclamations of solidarity in the aftermath of 9/11, the U.S. and Europe parted ways on issues from global warming and biotechnology to peacekeeping and national missile defense. Questions such as, the future role of NATO and its relationship to the common European Security and Defense policy (ESDP), or what constitutes terrorism and what the rights of captured suspected terrorists are, have been added to the list of US-European disagreements. There are two reasons for concern regarding the transatlantic rift. First,if European leaders conclude that Europe must becomecounterweightto the U.S., rather than a partner,it will be difficult to engage in the kind of open search for a common ground than an electivepartnership requires. Second, there is a risk that public opinion in both the U.S. and Europe will make it difficult even for leaders who want to forge a new relationship to make the necessary accommodations. If both sides would actively work to heal the breach, a new opportunity could be created.A vibrant transatlantic partnership remains a real possibility, but only if both sides make the necessary political commitment. There are strong reasons to believe that the security challenges facing the U.S. and Europe are more shared than divergent. The most dramatic case is terrorism. Closely related is the common interest in halting the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the nuclearization of Iran and North Korea. This commonality of threats is clearly perceived by publics on both sides of the Atlantic. Actually, Americans and Europeans see eye to eye on more issues than one would expect from reading newspapers and magazines. But while elites on both sides of the Atlantic bemoan a largely illusory gap over the use of military force, biotechnology, and global warming, surveys of American and European public opinion highlight sharp differences over global leadership, defense spending, and the Middle East that threaten the future of the last century’s most successful alliance. There areotherimportant,shared interestsas well.The transformation of Russiainto a stable cooperative member of the international communityisa priority both for the U.S.andEurope. They also have an interest inpromoting a stable regime inUkraine.It is necessary for the U.S. and EU to form a united frontto meet these challengesbecausefirst,there is a risk thatdangerous materials related toWMDwill fall into the wrong hands; andsecond,thespread of conflictalong those countries’ peripherycoulddestabilize neighboring countries and providesafe havens for terroristsand other international criminal organizations. Likewise, in the Caucasus and Central Asia both sides share a stake in promoting political and economic transformation and integrating these states into larger communities such as the OSCE. This would also minimize the risk of instability spreading and prevent those countries of becoming havens for international terrorists and criminals. Similarly, there is a common interest in integrating the Balkans politically and economically.Dealing withIran, Iraq, Lebanon, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as well as otherpolitical issues in the MiddleEastarealsoof a great concern for bothsides although the U.S. plays a dominant role in the region. Finally,US-European cooperation will be more effective in dealing with therising power of Chinathrough engagement but also containment. The post Iraq War realities have shown that it is no longer simply a question of adapting transatlantic institutions to new realities. The changing structure of relations between the U.S. and Europe implies that a new basis for the relationship must be found if transatlantic cooperation and partnership is to continue.The future course of relations will bedetermined above all by U.S. policy towards Europeand the Atlantic Alliance. Wise policy can help forge a new, more enduring strategic partnership, through which the two sides of the Atlantic cooperate in meeting the many major challenges and opportunities of the evolving world together. Buta policy thattakes Europe for grantedandroutinelyignores orevenbelittles European concerns,may force Europe to conclude that the costs of continued alliance outweigh its benefits. There is no doubt that the U.S. and Europe have considerable potential to pursue common security interests. Several key steps must be taken to make this potential a reality. First, it is critical to avoid the trap of ‘division of labor’ in the security realm, which could be devastating for the prospects of future cooperation. Second, and closely related to avoiding division of labor as a matter of policy, is the crucial necessity for Europe to develop at least some ‘high-end’ military capabilities to allow European forces to operate effectively with the U.S. Third, is the need for both the U.S. and Europe to enhance their ability to contribute to peacekeeping and post-conflict stabilization and reconstruction. Fourth, is the importance of preserving consensus at the heart of alliance decision-making. Some have argued that with the expansion of NATO, the time has come to reconsider the consensus role. One way to increase efficiency without destroying consensus would be to strengthen the role of the Secretary General in managing the internal and administrative affairs of the alliance, while reserving policy for the member states. Fifth is the need to make further progress on linking and de-conflicting NATO and EU capabilities. Sixth is the need for enhanced transatlantic defense industrial cooperation. Seventh, one future pillar for transatlantic cooperation is to strengthen US-European coordination in building the infrastructure of global governance through strengthening institutions such as the UN and its specialized agencies, the World Bank, the IFM, G-8, OECD and regional development banks. Finally, cooperation can also be achieved in strengthening the global economic infrastructure, sustaining the global ecosystem, and combating terrorism and international crime. To translate the potential of the transatlantic relationship into a more positive reality will require two kinds of development. First, the EU itself must take further steps to institutionalize its own capacity to act in these areas. Foreign policy and especially defense policy remain the areas where the future of a ‘European’ voice is most uncertain. Second, the U.S. and Europe need to establish more formal, effective mechanisms for consultation and even decision-making. The restoration of transatlantic relations requirespolicies andactions that governments on both sides of the Atlantic shouldsimultaneously adoptand not only a unilateral change of course. Developing a new, sustainable transatlantic relationship requires a series of deliberate decisions from both the U.S. and EU if a partnership of choice and not necessity is to be established. For the U.S., this meansavoiding the temptation, offered by unprecedented strength, to go it alonein pursuit of narrowly defined national interests. For the EU, the new partnership requires a willingness to accept that the EU plays a uniquely valuable role as a leader in a world where power still matters, and that a commitment to a rule-based international order does not obviate the need to act decisively against those who do not share that vision.

**Balkans conflict goes nuclear**
**Scherbak 08** – Advisor to the Chair of the Parliament of Ukraine (Yuri Scherbak (President of the Institute for Sustainable Development of Ukraine), Ten Theses about the Russian-Georgian Conflict: A View from Ukraine, Nov 2008, pg. http://www.boell.pl/downloads/Georgia_war_from_UA_perspective_by_Y.Scherbak.pdf)
2. The war in Caucasus attested that frozen conflicts, preserving tensions around them, pose a constant threat and, under the influence of interested parties, can explode despite international regimes and limitations, thus causing geopolitical changes in the region. This refers not only to Caucasus but also to Balkans, Transdnistria and other similar regions of the world. 3. The Russian-Georgian war became the first war between the member-states of the Commonwealth of Independent States and, as such, has actually put an end to the post-Soviet, post-Belovezzian world, which was grounded on the interests of the fSU republics and their recognition of the Russia’s leading role. 4. Compared to Ukrainian political parties, the Ukrainian civil and expert society has made a more sober assessment of the causes and consequences of this 5-day war. Among the main conclusions are the following: - by conducting the so-called soft ethnical cleansing (moving the Georgian population out of the self-proclaimed republics) and issuing passports of the Russian Federation to Abkhazians and Ossetians, for 17 years Russia has been deliberately preparing the recognition of the puppet regimes in order to undermine the integrity of Georgia and prohibit it from joining NATO; - the events in Caucasus are demonstrate the dangerous ignoring of international norms by the Russian leadership (Helsinki accords and international treaties) for the sake of reaching their geopolitical goals; - the strategic objective of Russia is to establish control over the routes of Caspian oil and gas transportation on the territory of Georgia and to prevent creation of independent routes for transferring energy carriers beyond Russia’s area of influence; - there is a strong possibility of a growing threat from Russia to Ukraine to be realized by artificial creation of a conflict, most likely on the territory of Crimea, to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO. 5. The current harsh financial and economic crisis with unpredictable geopolitical and social consequences is a new destructive element affecting the situation in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Caucasus states and the whole European region. There is a danger of neo-totalitarian regimes appearing on the continent, xenophobia and aggressive nationalism growing stronger and new isolationism adopted as main political philosophy. All of these developments could dramatically change the political map of Europe. 6. One of the results of the war between Georgia and Russia is a new challenge of Russia to Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Moldova, NATO and EU member states, which can mean abandonment of the post-Helsinki world and returning to the 19th-20th -century style division of spheres of influence among superpowers. 7. Taking into account the deep political crisis, conflict in leadership and division in society, the situation in Ukraine is chaotic and unbalanced. No one, except for the President and the National Security and Defense Council, stands against the Russian doctrine of Putin-Medvedev regarding the legitimacy of Russia’s military actions towards its closest neighbors on the grounds of protecting “Russian citizens” on the territory of sovereign states. The official Kyiv has no uniform action strategy regarding the existing threats from Moscow. The Ukrainian expert community considers the following optional strategies that Ukraine could adhere to in this situation: - increase efforts to ensure that Ukraine joins NATO as soon as possible; - withdraw the issue of NATO membership from the country’s agenda and instead concentrate on making progress in relationship with the European Union, following the advice of German and French experts; - start rearmament and modernization of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with some experts calling for renewal of the nuclear-missile potential of Ukraine; - conclude a separate military pact between Ukraine and the United States; - give in to Moscow’s pressure and proclaim a neutral, non-bloc state of Ukraine. 8. An important factor of the Russian pressure on Ukraine is the Black Sea Military Fleet of the Russian Federation, consisting of more than 100 warships and based in Sevastopol, which took part in the military operations in Caucasus. Moscow will insist on the prolongation of its stay in Sevastopol after 2017 (the final date of the stay provided for in the current bilateral treaty). At present, Ukraine has little means of control over the movement of the Russian warships on its own territory. 9. As a result of the massive campaign of Russian media, which could be considered an information war against Ukraine, 56% of Russians believe that Ukraine is hostile to Russia. Meanwhile only 8% Ukrainians consider Russia hostile to Ukraine. 10. The uniform position of the EU and NATO regarding common energy and security policy, involving participation of Ukraine and Georgia, could stop the Russia’s expansion in the postSoviet area. CONCLUSIONS 1. The war between Georgia and Russia opened a new dangerous phase of political instability. Russia took the road of building a new empire in the post-Soviet space and ignoring international legal norms. The use of force by a great nuclear power against its weak neighbors can lead to a new global conflict.

**And airpower also solves your terminal impacts**
**Khalilzad & Lesser 98** (Zalmay and Ian, Zalmay is a Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Ian is executive director of the German Marshall Fund's Transatlantic Center in Brussels, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy”, 1998, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897.html)//SK//
//This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Continues… There are already some indicators to this effect. For example, constitutional and legal restraints in the form of Article 9 could prevent Japan from providing access, logistical support, and reinforcements in the context of crises in Asia. There is also relatively weak political support for all but the most narrow range of contingencies, as became evident in Japanese, Korean, and Southeast Asian reluctance to support U.S. gunboat diplomacy during the recent (1995–1996) China-Taiwan face-off. Even the Southeast states, which benefit most from U.S. presence and deterrent capabilities in the region, were conspicuously silent—and in some cases even undercut American efforts at restraining Chinese intimidation of Taiwan. Besides these growing political constraints, the fact remains that in some feasible contingencies the U.S. Air Force will have little or no access whatsoever to some regions in Asia. The absence of air bases in Southeast Asia and the northern Indian Ocean, for example, could threaten the execution of contingency plans involving either South Asia or Myanmar. The vast distances in the Asia-Pacific region could come to haunt Air Force operations, because existing facilities at Diego Garcia and in the Persian Gulf are too far away for any but the most minimal operations.//

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**Contention 3 is Solvency**</span></span>
//**Implementing a VTS solves- Norway proves**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 6, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span>)//SK
The Arctic, as observers know, is on the verge of historic change and with it must come the aids to navigation and safety infrastructure to ensure shipping can be conducted safely and with the reasonable prospect of rescue in the event of a major disaster. No place is more critical to safety in the Arctic than the confined waters of the Bering Strait. Therefore, what is needed is a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) to mitigate risk associated with increased shipping. The Norwegians have a VTS at Vardø on the northern tip of Norway that could serve as a model for the Bering.[2] According to the Norwegian Oceanic Vessel Traffic Management Services handbook, the Norwegian Coastal Administration’s missions are fourfold: Coastal Management, Maritime Safety, Maritime Transport and Emergency preparedness in case of acute pollution. Recognizing the Barents Sea is a financially productive water space representing three of Norway’s largest industries: oil, gas and fisheries, it is incumbent on Norway to manage maritime traffic to prevent accidents that could threaten their livelihood.[3] The US and Russian Federation economic zones in the Bering Strait are just as vulnerable as Norway’s.

**VTS will be able to monitor traffic and retain dialogue to take action.**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Wednesday, February 8, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK//
//Assuming a VTS is a next logic step in Arctic infrastructure development, alone it cannot be expected to reduce the risks during transit. While a VTS provides the situational awareness by monitoring, tracking and communicating with vessels, it also needs to have a response capability. The Vardø VTS has an emergency tow response service, as well as, two Rescue Coordination Centers in the North and South of Norway.[11] Recall for a moment the Russian Federation’s desire for ten NSR Rescue Centers. But Rescue Centers alone will not be enough to ensure safe passage. Given the recent environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico and environmentalists calls for spill response protocols prior to the US Government allowing multinational oil and gas companies to drill in the Arctic, putting appropriate controls in place, to respond in the event of a spill and/or a vessel run aground, would seem reasonable. Fortunately, the Arctic Council appears to be moving toward a Spill Response agreement in the near future. Naturally, as vessel traffic increases, the Bering Strait VTS must also have supporting infrastructure such as aids to navigation, a port facility to harbor emergency tow service vessels and icebreakers, heated hangers and helicopter pads for the Russian Federation Border Guard and/or US Coast Guard air rescue. A strategically placed spill response capability should also be included. All of which would be necessary investments. Vardø VTS has the following primary tasks: • Monitor ship movements - record, identify and detect irregularities • Prevent accidents by maintaining constant dialogue with vessel trafﬁc • Take action and alert when a situation requires it • Manage tugboat preparedness Norway • Monitor the coverage area in the Norwegian economic zone, Svalbard and Jan Mayen • Navarea 19 coordinator, issuing and sending of navigational warnings • Assembly and provision of statistics • 1st line response of the Norwegian Coastal Administration • Contact in the agreement on international notiﬁcation of acute pollution with Russia • Information exchange with Iceland • National coordinator of Single Hull, reporting to Helsinki Commission/European Maritime Safety Agency//

//**PWSA proves VTS is under the Coast Guard’s jurisdiction.**//
//**Boyer 10**(J.M., Commander of the 17th Coast Guard District and Chief of the Waterways Management Branch, “Port Access Route Study: In the Bering Strait”, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, Federal Register / Vol. 75, No. 215 / Monday, November 8, 2010, http://www.uscg.mil/d17/D17%20Divisions/dpw/docs/PARSNoticeBeringStrait.pdf)//SK
Under the Ports and Waterways Safety Act (PWSA) (33 U.S.C. 1223(c)), the Commandant of the Coast Guard may designate necessary fairways and traffic separation schemes (TSSs) to provide safe access routes for vessels proceeding to and from U.S. ports. The designation of fairways and TSSs recognizes the paramount right of navigation over all other uses in the designated areas. The PWSA requires the Coast Guard to conduct a study of potential traffic density and the need for safe access routes for vessels before establishing or adjusting fairways or TSSs. Through the study process, we must coordinate with Federal, State, and foreign state agencies (as appropriate) and consider the views of maritime community representatives, environmental groups, and other interested stakeholders. A primary purpose of this coordination is, to the extent practicable, to reconcile the need for safe access routes with other reasonable waterway uses.

**And your DAs are non-unique---the 2013 budget gave money to rebuild Coast Guard capabilities.**
**USCG 12** (United States Coast Guard, “U.S. Coast Guard Fact Sheet Fiscal Year 2013 President’s Budget”, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 13-Feb 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/posturestatement/docs/FY_2013_Budget_Fact_Sheet.pdf)//SK
BACKGROUND: The FY 2013 President’s Budget requests $9.97 billion for the Coast Guard, including $8.32 billion in discretionary funding. This Budget strikes the optimal balance between sustaining current operations and investing in future capabilities. KEY POINTS: Provides $1.2 billion to Responsibly Rebuild the Coast Guard. Investment in recapitalization is a top budget priority in FY 2013. Funds current services requirements to Efficiently Preserve Front-line Operations, including resources to operate and maintain new assets, and funding for personnel pay and benefit increases. Will Strengthen Resource and Operational Stewardship through administrative and programmatic reductions to improve efficiency and service delivery, while continuing investment in Coast Guard activities that provide the highest return on investment. Recognizes the criticality of the Arctic as a strategic National priority, and Prepares for the Future by addressing emerging threats and risks in this region. The Coast Guard will continue to provide superior value and service to the American public.

===Golden Desert 1AC=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Plan__**</span></span>

**Plan text: The United States Coast Guard should implement a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service.**


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 1 is Maritime Domain Awareness__**</span></span>

**VTS implements an automatic identifying system**
**NAVCEN ’12-** The navigation center for the United States Cost Guard, from the Department of Homeland Security (Navigation Center, 2012, “VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICES”, [[http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/?pageName=vtsMain]] || RT)
The purpose of a Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) is to provide active monitoring and navigational advice for vessels in particularly confined and busy waterways. There are two main types of VTS, surveilled and non-surveilled. Surveilled systems consist of one or more land-based sensors (i.e. radar, AIS and closed circuit television sites), which output their signals to a central location where operators monitor and manage vessel traffic movement. Non-surveilled systems consist of one or more reporting points at which ships are required to report their identity, course, speed, and other data to the monitoring authority. They encompass a wide range of techniques and capabilities aimed at preventing vessel collisions, rammings, and groundings in the harbor, harbor approach and inland waterway phase of navigation. They are also designed to expedite ship movements, increase transportation system efficiency, and improve all-weather operating capability.

**AIS data is key to maritime domain awareness**
**Earles****10** (Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf)
The potential for international __[[#|collaboration]]__ in space to materially improve maritime security was recently articulated by Guy Thomas, Science and Technology Advisor for the US Coast Guard: “The maritime entities of the world, military, civil, and private alike looked at their situation in the new reality (after 9/11/2001) and quickly understood their vulnerabilities and the potential consequences. Since that terrible day a number of national and international organizations have addressed how to protect their maritime assets, both individually, and in growing numbers, collectively. Most saw increased maritime domain awareness (MDA) as of first importance to the smooth functioning of commerce on the world’s oceans, the crucial supporting frame of the world’s economy, and crucial to their national interests. The potential unique contributions of current and planned space systems, owned by a wide range of nations and available to many others, to international global maritime awareness is a subject of growing interest to many.” 1Knowing where ships are located is a necessary element of Maritime Domain Awareness, though not sufficient in itself to achieve an “effective understanding” 2 of maritime activity and its impact on safety, security, the environment and the economy. Current practice relies on a diverse set of sensors to garner the positions of ships; a fundamental contribution to the art and practice of ship tracking can be credited to the International Maritime Organization, which in 2004 mandated the use of an Automatic Ship Identification System (AIS) for many commercially important ships. AIS is a “self-reporting” system that broadcasts each participating ship’s identity and position (among many data fields) over VHF channels; the original intent was to provide collision-avoidance information to nearby ships and shore stations. 3 Shortly after the IMO carriage requirements became effective, the US Navy in the Mediterranean began to collaborate with European and African governments to establish a network of shore stations, all of which contributed the AIS signals they received locally to a consolidated data stream, which was then shared among participating nations. This Maritime Safety and Security Information System (MSSIS) has since grown into a network of over 100 AIS base stations in over 60 participating nations around the world, providing current positions for over 15,000 ships. The major strengths of this innovative collaboration are the trust and interdependence it generates, and of course, an unprecedented picture of maritime activity. The major shortcomings are the limited set of ships broadcasting AIS, and the limited reception range for VHF signals; no data is received from non-cooperative vessels, or from the open oceans or areas near nonparticipating nations. Herein lies the key point made by Guy Thomas: the entire planet is “visible” from space, and many of the sensors (including AIS receivers) needed for a much more complete picture of maritime activity are already on orbit or planned. That space will be the key enabler for truly global situational awareness is suggested by the exceptional composite image of the earth at night (Figure 1). Lights which are clearly visible from space define the “wired” world, served by grid electricity and more recently, internet connectivity. This leaves the oceans, the polar regions, deserts and jungles “unwired” and often undergoverned. Moving data out of these areas, which comprise roughly 84% of the Earth’s surface, is important: a key strategic principle in warfare is to deny the enemy sanctuary, and for illicit activities ranging from illegal trafficking to training terrorists, sanctuary is found in the unwired world. Quite separate from the challenge of moving data out of unwired areas is the related question of generating that data in remote regions; this will be addressed with a review of the State of the Art in unattended sensors in the context of the business case for small satellite systems. This article will focus on the “bent pipe” link that can connect the “unwired” and “wired” regions of the world via satellite, using AIS data as a convenient example of interesting data that is routinely generated by ships that are only in the “wired” world when they are pier-side or close to a shore-based AIS receiver. This will allow us to develop a concept for collaboration in space with a concrete use-case, that being to extend the current AIS picture from regional near-shore areas to the entire world. Additional utility can be had if the data collection and transport backbone in space, which handles AIS data, would also handle data signals from maritime and terrestrial sensors that transmit short bursts of data.

**Aff solves any of your MDA bad offense by universalizing data**
**Vahcon****06** (Paris W., “Ship Detection in Synthetic Aperature Radar Imagery”, Defense R&D Canada, Third Workshop on Coastal and Marine Applications of SAR, October 2006, [[http://www.oceansar2006.com/papers/82_Vachon_Oceansar2006.pdf]])//SK//
//Automatic Identification System (AIS), a VHF transponder system intended for collision avoidance, is proving to be a valuable asset to identify ships in SAR imagery, especially as we move into the era of spaceborne AIS reception. Mandated by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) convention, AIS must be implemented on passenger vessels and on ships that are larger than 300 gross tons. Transmitted AIS information includes ship identification, position, and velocity. Of course, ships may have non-compliant AIS installations and could purposefully transmit incorrect data. Such occurrences could be identified through verification with SAR detections and signatures. AIS data is already being used to improve the maritime picture through reception at fixed coastal stations and on aircraft and ships. In the near future, we are moving towards spaceborne reception, and there is currently discussion of including spaceborne AIS reception in operational ship detection systems. Spaceborne AIS reception presents challenges since thousands of AIS transmitters could be visible from a satellite for certain regions on the planet.//

//**Coast Guard key to Arctic MDA**//
//**Salerno 11** (Brian M., Vice Admiral in U.S. Coast Guard and Deputy Commandant for Operations, “COMMANDANT INSTRUCTION 16003.1”, United States Department of Homeland Security, US Coast Guard, 26 APR 2011, http://www.uscg.mil/directives/ci/16000-16999/CI_16003_1.pdf)//SK
MDA: It results from the full integration of situational awareness and intelligence. Greater awareness and effective understanding of maritime activity in the Arctic is required to promote safety, protect the environment, and respond to maritime incidents and threats. The U.S. Coast Guard will assert its leadership in developing an integrated MDA program that will fuse the expertise and input from our tribal, local, state, federal and industry partners and the myriad of informative sources available in the region.

**Lack of Arctic Maritime Domain Awareness creates inaccurate coastal water data**
**Caldwell 10** (Stephen L., Director of Homeland Security and Justice at the Government Accountability Office, “Coast Guard: Efforts to Identify Arctic Requirements are Ongoing, But More Communication about Agency Planning Efforts Would Be Beneficial”, Report to Congressional Requesters, September 2010, pages 31-32)//SK//
//Coast Guard officials report that improved maritime domain awareness is critical to the agency’s operations in the region but the agency faces several challenges to addressing this. According to the Coast Guard, maritime domain awareness is an effort to achieve an understanding of anything in the maritime environment that can affect the security, safety, economy, or environment of the United States. Coast Guard documents state that Arctic domain awareness---maritime domain awareness in the Arctic---is critical to understanding the risks to the maritime community and infrastructure, the Arctic environment, and Alaska Native culture and subsistence lifestyle. In addition, in 2008, the Coast Guard reported to Congress that Arctic domain awareness will be critical to effective engagement in the Arctic as activity increases. At the beginning of the agency’s 2008 summer deployment in the Arctic, District 17 officials reported not having the Arctic domain awareness to fully understand the context or risks of operating in or monitoring the Arctic and explained that the summer operations were intended to address this. According to senior Coast Guard officials, Coast Guard after-action reports of summer Arctic operations, and other federal partners, challenges exist for the Coast Guard in achieving Arctic domain awareness. These challenges include (1) inadequate Arctic Ocean and weather data, (2) lack of communication infrastructure, (3) limited intelligence information, and (4) lack of a physical presence in the Arctic. For example: Inadequate Arctic Ocean and Weather Information: NOAA officials reported a lack of accurate data for Arctic navigation including, among other things, tides, nautical charts, water levels, currents, shoreline, sea ice, and meteorological information. This lack of information can have an impact on the ability of the Coast Guard to conduct routine and emergency missions. For example, during its summer Arctic deployments the Coast Guard reported that smaller pieces of sea ice are often missed by current technology and, while inconsequential for icebreakers, this sea ice represents a significant hazard for the remainder of the Coast Guard’s portfolio of boats.//

//**Luckily the plan makes LIDAR data usable**//
//**Streib 08** (K., Department of Electrical and Computational Engineering at Ohio State University, “A sensor based assessment of imminent collisions at right angle intersections”, Vehicular Electronics and Safety, 2008 ICVES Conference, P. Abstract)//SK
This report summarizes the feasibility of using light detection and ranging (LIDAR) data to track an oncoming vehicle at a right angle intersection with the ultimate goal of determining the severity of a potential collision. The vehicle tracking system (VTS) that was developed to transform raw LIDAR data into a useable format and track potential vehicles during consecutive scans will be described in detail. Furthermore, the results from tests using the VTS to track approaching vehicles on both simulated and experimental LIDAR data will be provided.

**LIDAR creates THE most accurate coastal data and is necessary for accurate flood and storm response**
**NOAA 12** (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Coastal Services Center, “Lidar 101: An Introduction to Lidar Technology, Data, and Applications.” Revised. Charleston, SC: NOAA Coastal Services Center., 2012, http://www.csc.noaa.gov/digitalcoast/_/pdf/lidar101.pdf)//SK//
//Lidar coverage is expanding rapidly along the U.S. shoreline, and as a result lidar data are increasingly being used for shoreline mapping, including defining shoreline positions and quantifying rates of shoreline change. Shoreline—and its many tidal datum variations—is commonly referenced as a boundary component in legal descriptions, as the point of origin for jurisdictional boundaries, and as the boundary between public and private ownership (Figure 61). These various definitions of shorelines are based on water levels that are influenced by tides and currents. The different shorelines shown above have traditionally been inferred from various indicators or proxies such as vegetation lines, dune lines, beach scarps, wet‒dry lines, and more (White and others, 2011). Long-term water level records have led to the development of datum-based shorelines that rely on known relationships between tidal, orthometric, and ellipsoidal vertical datums. Changes in shorelines through processes of accretion and erosion can be analyzed by measuring differences in past and present shoreline locations (Figure 6-2). This information is used to quantify erosion rates and adjust setback regulations. NOAA’s National Geodetic Survey, or NGS, started testing lidar data to map shorelines in 2000 and incorporated a lidar-derived shoreline in a chart for the first time in 2004. One of the main benefits of using lidar to map shorelines is that tide-coordination requirements are not as stringent as with the traditional photogrammetric procedures: it is typically only necessary to collect data below a certain tide stage, rather than within a narrow tide window (White and others, 2011). Topographic lidar provides multiple elevation readings per square meter but cannot penetrate the water surface (due to the laser’s wavelength). This results in a very densely sampled “dry” area on most coastlines but a lack of information seaward of water’s edge at the time of acquisition. Bathymetric lidar can, with a different wavelength, penetrate the water surface and provide depth or “bathy” information out to about 70 meters in clear water. In areas with highly turbid waters or breaking waves, however, the penetration depth is on the order of feet or less. For most shoreline extraction and coastal science applications, it is more important to have high-resolution, seamless data across the backshore, intertidal, and shallow nearshore zones. There are several combined topographic and bathymetric lidar systems that have been used extensively to map shoreline and nearshore areas. Combined topographic-bathymetric lidar data sets, such as those collected by the Joint Airborne Lidar Bathymetry Technical Center of Expertise (JALBTCX), provide the critical elevation data required to produce datum-based shorelines. However, the spacing for bathymetric points is fairly wide compared to the tight spacing of topographic points, and there are often large gaps in areas with significant wave action and high turbidity (Figure 6-3). It is thus often preferable to derive shorelines using topographic lidar that was collected at a low tide stage (e.g., mean lower low water (MLLW)). Collecting it at a low tide stage permits higher shorelines to be mapped using a single data set (e.g., mean sea level (MSL), mean high water (MHW)). However, in practice, it is extremely challenging to map MLLW from topo-only lidar data. This is because it is operationally challenging in many project sites to acquire the data at a sufficiently low tide stage that the MLLW line is exposed (i.e., above water) throughout the project site. Furthermore, the data in the vicinity of the MLLW shoreline are often sparse and noisy, due to low backscatter from wet surfaces when operating at near-infrared wavelengths. And finally, many algorithms are unstable near the edges of coverage in a data set. These challenges are best overcome with seamless topo-bathy data generated from systems configured for such environments, though using these systems does not guarantee good, continuous coverage across the land-water interface (Parrish, 2012). For the purposes of mapping a specific shoreline (e.g., MLLW, MHW),// lidar-based procedures help eliminate some of the subjectivity and interpretation biases //common with photogrammetric techniques (Espy, 2003; White and others, 2011). Once a base DEM has been created from the lidar points, different users can take the information and create a repeatable shoreline based on a specific elevation; this is the advantage of a complete digital coastal elevation model (Guenther, 2007). There are many ways to create a DEM from lidar data. In some cases the user has control over the types of routines or methods used to generate the DEM, and in other cases, the user is provided with a pre-made DEM. NOAA’s NGS published its lidar-based shoreline mapping workflow in White and others (2011). The workflow begins with lidar point data (which were collected using strict requirements) that are processed and ultimately converted to a gridded DEM (Figure 6-4). The use of NOAA’s VDatum tool is a critical component of this workflow, as it makes possible the transformations between tidal, orthometric, and ellipsoidal vertical datums. The creation of a DEM from lidar data can be performed using different interpolation routines—each with its own advantages and disadvantages—but the NGS methodology serves to generate a nationally consistent datum-based shoreline. Shoreline vectors are extracted from the DEM using a contour interpolation method. Figure 6-5 presents a shoreline representing MHW following the NGS workflow. As with DEM interpolation methods, there are different techniques for extracting contours. The NGS method uses linear interpolation to produce consistent and accurate shorelines. The same contouring process that was used to extract the MHW contour was also used to extract the MLLW contour (Figure 6-6). In both cases, the shorelines are displayed on top of aerial imagery that was collected around the predicted time of MHW and MLLW, respectively. In summary, this discussion on shoreline mapping focused on the NGS workflow for lidar-based shoreline mapping. As such, topo-bathy lidar points were gathered from NOAA’s Digital Coast and were transformed to tidal datums using the VDatum software. DEMs were then created for each tidal datum with a 1.5 meter grid resolution. Shoreline contours were created from the DEMs and presented in the graphics. Inundation, whether from sea-level rise or storm surge, is a common coastal application using elevation data. Lidar data provide the accuracy to both model and delineate the potential extent of flooding from different forms of inundation due to the high accuracy of the data and the ability to resolve small features that influence flow paths. In sea-level rise scenarios, the lidar data can be used to model topographic change—or morphologic change—that would be generated from a nearly uniform rise in water level and also to identify areas that are potentially susceptible to flooding. Coastal flooding from storms represents a rise in water level that is not uniform. Lidar data can be input in surface water models as well as map flooding extent. Storm surge is typically modeled using either the Sea, Lake, and Overland Surges from Hurricanes (SLOSH) model or the Advanced Circulation (ADCIRC) model. There are advantages and disadvantages to both models, and lidar data can be, and have been, incorporated into both models. The DEM grid that the ADCIRC model uses generally has a higher resolution than the SLOSH model, but ADCIRC cannot yet be run operationally for oncoming storms. Of course, neither SLOSH nor ADCIRC run at or near the resolution of even the coarsest lidar data. The output of the SLOSH model is an “envelope” of water that includes water depth (Figure 6-6). When these outputs are combined with a lidar-derived topographic surface (Figure 6-7), flood areas, extents, and depths are more precisely defined than those generated using the “best available” regional data (Figure 6-8) that, in this case, has a lower spatial resolution and also poorer accuracy.//

//**The brink is now---current flood and storm predictions rely on failing methods**//
//**GSO et al. 11** (The Graduation Student Organization at the University of Rhode Island and the National Science Foundation (AKA the country’s nerds), “Observation of Storm Surge, Wave, and Flooding”, Hurricane Science, 2010-2011, http://www.hurricanescience.org/society/impacts/stormsurge/)//SK
Observation data of storm surge, wave, and coastal flooding are needed for scientific understanding of the dynamics of surge, wave, and flooding, as well as for verification of numerical models. Observation of storm surge relies on sparsely located tidal gages installed by NOAA and other agencies along the coastline. The continuously observed data at a tidal gage gives the total water elevation relative to a vertical datum (e.g., NAVD88 or NGVD25). The observed water elevation consists of storm surge, tide, and wave setup. While the tide contained in the data can be removed by applying a 32-hour filter to the data or by subtracting the NOAA-predicted tide at that location to give the storm surge value (see an example below), it is difficult to isolate the wave setup from the remaining data signal. The only way to determine the wave setup is by numerical simulation of surge and wave during hurricanes, and comparison of simulated surge and wave with data. Observation of coastal flooding is based on the so-called High Water Marks (HWMs) in flooded area during a hurricane. These HWMs, which supposedly record the highest water level during a hurricane, are often difficult to interpret due to the following problems: 1) it is difficult to know if waves are included in the HWMs; 2) the vertical datum of the HWMs is often missing; 3) the HWMs are often observed at locations near a major river; and 4) the HWMs only provide peak water elevation, without any information on when the peak occurred.

**Floods are coming as a result of warming and will devastate agriculture and bring new diseases**
**NWF 08** (National Wildlife Federation, “Heavy Rainfall and Increased Flooding Risk: Global Warming’s Wake-Up Call for the Central United States”, 2008, http://www.nwf.org/~/media/PDFs/Global-Warming/Reports/HeavyRainfallandIncreasedFloodingWakeUpCallforCentralUS2.pdf?dmc=1&ts=20130127T2008456875)//SK//
//Global warming is bringing more heavy rainfall to the Central United States. In the upper Midwest, the frequency of the most intense rainfall events has increased by 20 percent since the late 1960s.1 The number of days each year with precipitation greater than 4 inches has increased by 50 percent over the last century.2 These increases are correlated with a corresponding increase in days with heavy streamflow in the medium and large river basins of the Eastern United States.3 Major flooding—like the Great Floods of 1993 and 2008—requires prolonged periods of higher-thannormal precipitation. Across North America, we are having more 90-day intervals with precipitation totals in the top 5 percent of the historical average. The last 25 years have seen 20 percent more of these episodes than any other 25-year window over the 20th century.4 As the climate continues to warm, the atmosphere will be able to hold more water. With more moisture in the air, the trend towards increasingly intense precipitation events will continue. In the Midwest, big storms that historically would only be seen once every 20 years are projected to happen as much as every 4 to 6 years by the end of the 21st century.5 Increasing Frequency of Heavy Rainfall Events Floods and severe storms are among the most costly kind of weather and climate disaster in the United States, together costing the country more than $115 billion from 1960-2005 in direct damages.6 The Midwest is hit disproportionally more, suffering about a quarter of these losses.7 In the Central United States, severe weather and flooding can be especially devastating for crops, both during the storm and because excessively wet soil can create anoxic conditions, foster the spread of diseases and insects, and make it difficult to operate farm machinery needed to plant or harvest. One study estimates that flood-related losses to U.S. crops could double by 2030 due to increased frequency of excess soil moisture. 8 Large floods that overwhelm water treatment facilities can cause outbreaks of waterborne diseases. Such was the case in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in 1993, when there were 403,000 cases of intestinal illness, resulting in 54 deaths, after a period of heavy rainfall. In fact, more than half of waterborne diseases reported nationwide between 1948 and 1994 were preceded by periods of heavy rainfall.//

//**Sustainable agriculture prevents extinction**//
//**Lugar 02** (Richard G., US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee., “Plant Power”, http://www.ourplanet.com/imgversn/143/lugar.html)//SK
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East, burgeoning nuclear threats and other crises, it is easy to lose sight of the long-range challenges. But we do so at our peril. One of the most daunting of them is meeting the world’s need for food and energy in this century. At stake is not only preventing starvation and saving the environment, but also world peace and security. History tells us that states may go to war over access to resources, and that poverty and famine have often bred fanaticism and terrorism. Working to feed the world will minimize factors that contribute to global instability and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. With the world population expected to grow from 6 billion people today to 9 billion by mid-century, the demand for affordable food will increase well beyond current international production levels. People in rapidly developing nations will have the means greatly to improve their standard of living and caloric intake. Inevitably, that means eating more meat. This will raise demand for feed grain at the same time that the growing world population will need vastly more basic food to eat. Complicating a solution to this problem is a dynamic that must be better understood in the West: developing countries often use limited arable land to expand cities to house their growing populations. As good land disappears, people destroy timber resources and even rainforests as they try to create more arable land to feed themselves. The long-term environmental consequences could be disastrous for the entire globe. To meet the expected demand for food over the next 50 years, we in the United States will have to grow roughly three times more food on the land we have. That’s a tall order. My farm in Marion County, Indiana, for example, yields on average 8.3 to 8.6 tonnes of corn per hectare – typical for a farm in central Indiana. To triple our production by 2050, we will have to produce an annual average of 25 tonnes per hectare. Can we possibly boost output that much? Well, it’s been done before. Advances in the use of fertilizer and water, improved machinery and better tilling techniques combined to generate a threefold increase in yields since 1935 – on our farm back then, my dad produced 2.8 to 3 tonnes per hectare. Much US agriculture has seen similar increases. But of course there is no guarantee that we can achieve those results again. Given the urgency of expanding food production to meet world demand, we must invest much more in scientific research and target that money toward projects that promise to have significant national and global impact. For the United States, that will mean a major shift in the way we conduct and fund agricultural science. Fundamental research will generate the innovations that will be necessary to feed the world. The United States can take a leading position in a productivity revolution. And our success at increasing food production may play a decisive humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet.

**Disease leads to extinction.**
**Yu** 0**9**(Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, 5-22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate, 6-23-11)
A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 2 is the Arctic__**</span></span>
**Scenario 1 is Russian Cooperation**

**It’s normal means**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK//
//Meanwhile, the Russian Federation continues to increase throughput along the NSR.As the Barents Observer reported in late January 2012, “This year’s season on the NSR was special in many ways. Not only was the route accessible about one month longer than usual, but it also had the highest number ever of vessels in transit from Murmansk to another country”.[6] In a more recent Barents Observer article, Gazprom and Sovcomflot´s executives suggested “the relevance of LNG shipping along the NSRto the Asian-Pacific region [is] growing quickly”.[7] Clearly then, the Russian Federation expects to make the NSR a viable option between northern Pacific ports and northern Atlantic ports. There are dissenters who would suggest Arctic shipping will not be as safe and profitable as Russian Federation leaders would suggest. In a recent Insurance Journal article entitled, “Arctic Ice Melt Lifts Hopes for Russian Maritime Trade”, authors Albina Kovalyova & Alissa de Carbonnel opined, “industry analysts and mariners say ice floes, narrow straits, shallow waters, poor infrastructure and stormy winters continue to loom as obstacles to safe and profitable shipping through the polar shortcut”.[8] Notwithstanding, Russia continues to demonstrate that the NSR is a viable shipping route. Two years ago the Russian Federation announced it would send five vessels of different classes through the NSR as a proof of principle, meeting the mark. They then publicly stated they would increase that number fivefold. This year reportedly 34 vessels transited the NSR. If increases were to continue at current calculations, within five years, however unlikely, transits would exceed over one hundred thousand. Regardless of how many vessels actually transit the route in coming years, the Russian Federation’s fulfillment of their stated goals should lead observers, and especially policy makers, to believe the NSR will become a major Sea Line of Communication in the not too distant future. Returning to the topic at hand, there are essentially two types of VTSs, manned and unmanned. The Vardø VTS is manned due to the heavy traffic that transits along Norway’s West coast and the need to safeguard critical state enterprises. Whereas, the few number of ships currently transiting the Bering Strait today may make it feasible to have an unmanned VTS until vessel traffic warrants an upgrade. An unmanned system would likely be monitored remotely both from Russia and the United States, using sensors to track and control Bering Strait traffic. Additionally, a traffic separation plan must be submitted and approved by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). For example, should north bound traffic transit east of Little Diomede Island and southbound traffic transit west of Big Diomede? These are details that must be negotiated between the United States and the Russian Federation. Clearly gas and oil traffic are expected to increase in the near-term, evidenced by Shell’s CEO Peter Voser’s 31 January Fox Business interview. "For us the focus is in Alaska and to some extent in Greenland, although in the coming years there may also be opportunities in Russia," stated Voser.[9] Shell is not the only company expecting to profit from Arctic oil and gas. Norway’s Statoil, Total, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips are all set to exploit the reported 90 billion barrels of oil, up to 50 trillion cubic meters of natural gas and 44 billion barrels of natural gas liquids that the 2008 US Geological Survey suggests are in the Arctic. Therefore, it is essential to mitigate the accompanying risk of increased Bering Strait vessel traffic by resourcing a VTS.//

//**That solves relations and Arctic security issues**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span> || RT)//
//Internationally, the resulting level of cooperation ensuing from bilateral negotiations between the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US State Department could serve to further reset the US-Russian relations. Potentially, the Russian Duma may be encouraged to ratify the US-Russia Maritime Boundary. Environmentalists may be less concerned about the risk of oil and gas spills. The US Coast Guard and the Russian Federation Border Guard could better enforce international and national laws. Insurance companies like Lloyd’s of London who hold maritime liabilities may be more inclined to reduce shipping companies rates, saving companies who use the NSR the money that can then be reinvested. Alternately, as this international waterway opens to international trade the threats to US and Russian security will increase. Having a national presence at the gateway to the Arctic could mitigate potential criminal or hostile acts and deter illicit activity. Finally, having an International Maritime Organization certified Bering Strait VTS fulfills the pledge made by Arctic nations to enhance Arctic marine safety, to protect the marine environment and expand Arctic marine infrastructure.//

//**Arctic issues are the most probable and biggest 21st century threat- US action towards multilateralism is necessary**//
//**Borgerson 08-** the visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) and an adjunct senior research scholar at Columbia University (Scott G., 2008, “Arctic Meltdown”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63222/scott-g-borgerson/arctic-meltdown?page=show</span> || RT)//
//Despite the melting icecap's potential to transform global shipping and energy markets, Arctic issues are largely ignored at senior levels in the U.S. State Department and the U.S. National Security Council. The most recent executive statement on the Arctic dates to 1994 and does not mention the retreating ice. But the Arctic's strategic location and immense resource wealth make it an important national interest. Although the melting Arctic holds great promise, it also poses grave dangers. The combination of new shipping routes, trillions of dollars in possible oil and gas resources, and a poorly defined picture of state ownership makes for a toxic brew. The situation is especially dangerous because there are currently no overarching political or legal structures that can provide for the orderly development of the region or mediate political disagreements over Arctic resources or sea-lanes. The Arctic has always been frozen; as ice turns to water, it is not clear which rules should apply. The rapid melt is also rekindling numerous interstate rivalries and attracting energy-hungry newcomers, such as China, to the region. The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories, such as the desolate but resource-rich Spratly Islands, where multiple states claim sovereignty but no clear picture of ownership exists. There are few legal frameworks that offer guidance. The Arctic Council does exist to address environmental issues, but it has remained silent on the most pressing challenges facing the region because the United States purposefully emasculated it at birth, in 1996, by prohibiting it from addressing security concerns. Many observers argue that UNCLOS is the correct tool to manage the thawing Arctic. The convention provides mechanisms for states to settle boundary disputes and submit claims for additional resources beyond their exclusive economic zones. Furthermore, UNCLOS sets aside the resources in the high seas as the common heritage of humankind, it allows states bordering ice-covered waters to enforce more stringent environmental regulations, and it defines which seaways are the sovereign possessions of states and which international passages are open to unfettered navigation. However, UNCLOS cannot be seamlessly applied to the Arctic. The region's unique geographic circumstances do not allow for a neat application of this legal framework. The Arctic is home to a number of vexing problems that, taken in their entirety, make it a special case. These unresolved challenges include carving up the world's longest uncharted and most geologically complex continental shelf among five states with competing claims, resolving differences between Canada and the rest of the world over how to legally define the Northwest Passage, demarcating maritime borders between the United States and Canada in the Beaufort Sea and between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea, and regulating vessels shielded behind flags of convenience (which obscure the true origin and ownership of the vessels) as they travel across numerous national jurisdictions. Finally, increased oil and gas exploration and the trans-Arctic shipping that comes with it will pose serious environmental risks. Oil tankers present a particularly grave environmental threat, as illustrated by three recent oil spills in the much safer waters of the San Francisco Bay, the Black Sea, and the Yellow Sea. There are also a handful of unresolved issues at play in the Arctic that are not covered under UNCLOS. Between 1958 and 1992, Russia dumped 18 nuclear reactors into the Arctic Ocean, several of them still fully loaded with nuclear fuel. This hazard still needs to be cleaned up. Furthermore, the Arctic region is home to one million indigenous people, who deserve to have a say in the region's future, especially as regards their professed right to continue hunting bowhead whales, their safety alongside what will become bustling shipping lanes, and their rightful share of the economic benefits that Arctic development will bring. With the prospect of newfound energy wealth, there is also growing talk of Greenland petitioning Denmark for political independence. Finally, there has been an explosion in polar tourism, often involving ships unsuited for navigation in the region. Last year, 140 cruise ships carried 4,000 intrepid travelers for holidays off Greenland's icy coast, a dangerous journey in largely uncharted waters. Although it is tempting to look to the past for solutions to the Arctic conundrum, no perfect analogy exists. The 1959 Antarctic Treaty, which froze all territorial claims and set aside the continent for scientific research, provides some lessons, but it concerns a continent rather than an ocean. Moreover, Antarctica is far removed from major trade routes, and negotiations unfolded in the entirely different context of the Cold War. As a body of water that links several large economies, the Mediterranean Sea is somewhat similar to the Arctic Ocean, but its littoral states have always had clearer historical claims, and it has never been covered with ice, at least not in human history. There is simply no comparable historical example of a saltwater space with such ambiguous ownership, such a dramatically mutating seascape, and such extraordinary economic promise. The region's remarkable untapped resource wealth and unrealized potential to become a fast lane between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans makes it a key emerging pressure point in international affairs. At this critical juncture, decisions about how to manage this rapidly changing region will likely be made within a diplomatic and legal vacuum unless the United States steps forward to lead the international community toward a multilateral solution.//

//**Arctic conflict has a low threshold and big escalation**//
//**Staples 09**- Rideau Institute: Danish Institute for International Studies (Steven Staples, August 10, 2009, “Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone”, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf)//
//The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years. In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”//

//**Scenario 2 is Readiness**//

//**Current arctic navigational operations fail and increase arctic terrorism and piracy.**//
//**Conley 12** (Heather, Heather Conley serves as director and senior fellow of the Europe Program at CSIS. Prior to joining CSIS, Ms. Conley served as senior adviser to the Center for European Policy Analysis, an independent, nonpartisan public policy research institute dedicated to the study of Central Europe. From 2005–2008, Ms. Conley served as the executive director, Office of the Chairman of the Board of the American National Red Cross, where she focused her efforts on developing the first comprehensive reform to the governance structure of the American Red Cross Board since 1947, incorporating best governance practices for nonprofit and for-profit sectors., “Security Challenges and Opportunities in a Changing Arctic Environment”, This article has been excerpted from the CSIS Europe Program report entitled “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective”. For the complete report, please visit: [[http://csis.org/publication/new-security-architecture-arctic]], April 26, 2012, http://www.e-ir.info/2012/04/26/security-challenges-and-opportunities-in-a-changing-arctic-environment/)//SK
The Arctic __[[#|region]]__ is experiencing rapid and extraordinary environmental changes. As sea ice extent is dramatically reduced, fish stocks migrate further north and human activity increases, these changes are likely to alter the dynamics of regional commercial, human, and state interaction. For the United States, the Arctic will take on greater economic importance in the future and will require a comprehensive security strategy that includes increased regional readiness and border security, as well as an enhancement of strategic capabilities. The security challenges in the Arctic are vast, including search and rescue, environmental remediation, piracy, terrorism, natural and man-made disaster response, and border protection. There is presently a near absence of satellite coverage, limited hydrographic mapping, difficulties of ice forecasting, and mobility constraints of ice-strengthened equipment. A coherent surveillance of ice thickness does not currently exist, a critical factor when operating tankers, oil platforms, and cruise ships in the Arctic. This problem is exacerbated by the vacillation of sea ice, which makes safe navigation of the harsh territory more difficult. In addition, magnetic and solar phenomena limit communications equipment above 70 degrees north. The Second World War and the Cold War were the defining historical frameworks for U.S. engagement in the Arctic. During World War II, the United States needed to create supply routes by air and by sea to resupply the Soviet front through the port of Murmansk and to fend off any possible Japanese invasion of Alaska. This justified the construction of a portion of the Alaskan highway system. At the height of the Cold War, the proximity of U.S. Arctic territory to the Soviet Union was the impetus for creating a continental defense and deterrence system, the Distant Early Warning, or DEW, Line. Much of the U.S. security infrastructure that remains in the region was constructed in the 1950s and 1960s. As the Cold War’s existential threat has faded in recent decades, U.S. Arctic capabilities have also been in decline. U.S. Arctic territory occupies only a small portion of the Arctic region as a whole and is far from the political and economic centers of the country. Although Alaska serves the natural resource needs and military interests of the United States, it has not been a major focus of U.S. policy. With the exceptions of the global missile defense architecture based at Fort Greeley and the U.S. government’s ongoing scientific research work, the U.S. security approach toward the Arctic has largely been to outsource requirements to foreign-flagged commercial vessels or to borrow ice-strengthened vessels from Canada, Russia, or Sweden. For many senior U.S. homeland security officials, the concept of border security relates to overall U.S. counterterrorism efforts, its southern border with Mexico, and drug and human interdiction – the most northern borders of the United States receive far less attention. As the U.S. defense and homeland security budgets are increasingly constrained, increased spending for regions that do not pose an immediate threat seems unlikely. Unable to make difficult and future budget decisions, Washington reverts to a near-constant assessment process of U.S. infrastructure and security needs in the Arctic (such as the upcoming FY2014 Navy Arctic Capabilities Based Assessment), suggesting that an endless assessment process is equivalent to taking decisions on a future course of action. In stark contrast, other Arctic coastal nations have declared the Arctic a main strategic area of interest and have placed budgetary resources behind their lofty development plans. Russia, for example, has clearly made the Arctic a priority in documents such as the National Security Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2020 and has backed these goals with investment in icebreakers, regional coordination centers and other border enhancements. Russia has also created incentives to encourage oil and gas development in its Arctic territories. By the end of 2011, Russia had plans to establish a brigade especially equipped and prepared for military warfare in Arctic conditions. The 200 motorized infantry brigade in Pechenga, some 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the Russian-Norwegian border, is the first such unit. In addition, the Russian military is considering the deployment of paratroopers from the Arctic Spetsnaz brigade. The United States is the only Arctic coastal state that does not currently have any large-scale economic development plan for the region and has a woeful lack of Arctic military capabilities. The most definitive declaration of U.S. policy toward the Arctic, the National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-66) on Arctic Region Policy, articulates the most pressing U.S. security interests in the region: missile defense and early-warning systems ; deployment of sea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight; and preventing terrorist attacks and mitigating criminal or hostile acts that could increase U.S. vulnerability to terrorism in the Arctic region. NSPD-66 also addresses governance, scientific cooperation, environmental issues, boundaries and continental shelf disputes, and economic developments.

**Arctic terrorism leads to nuclear and biological warfare**
**Mychajlyszyn 08** (Natalie, International Affairs, Trade and Finance Division, “The Arctic: Canadian Security and Defence”, 24 October 2008, http://www.parl.gc.ca/Content/LOP/ResearchPublications/prb0813-e.htm#illegalaccess)//SK//
//Increased illegal access and illegal activities, including terrorism As the Arctic generally becomes more accessible because of the warming climate, some analysts predict the emergence of new security threats.(6) One such risk is that of an increase in illegal migration and trafficking in persons to North America through the Arctic. There are also fears of the North being used as a thoroughfare for drug trafficking as well as a destination for illegal narcotics. In the post-September 11 era, fears have been raised concerning the increased vulnerability of the Arctic as a passage for terrorists, whether for illegal entry into North America or for the transport of illegal weapons, including biological and chemical devices. To such a list of activities, generally perpetrated by organized crime groups, can be added the rise of other types of organized crime, such as those involving industries engaged in the extraction of lucrative resources, such as diamonds and copper.//

//**That’s war**//
//**Rhodes 09** (Richard Rhodes, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award., “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, 12-14-09, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)//SK
The response was very different among nuclear and national security experts when Indiana Republican Sen. Richard Lugar surveyed PDF them in 2005. This group of 85 experts judged that the possibility of a WMD attack against a city or other target somewhere in the world is real and increasing over time. The median estimate of the risk of a nuclear attack somewhere in the world by 2010 was 10 percent. The risk of an attack by 2015 doubled to 20 percent median. There was strong, though not universal, agreement that a nuclear attack is more likely to be carried out by a terrorist organization than by a government. The group was split 45 to 55 percent on whether terrorists were more likely to obtain an intact working nuclear weapon or manufacture one after obtaining weapon-grade nuclear material. “The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is not just a security problem,” Lugar wrote in the report’s introduction. “It is the economic dilemma and the moral challenge of the current age. On September 11, 2001, the world witnessed the destructive potential of international terrorism. But the September 11 attacks do not come close to approximating the destruction that would be unleashed by a nuclear weapon. Weapons of mass destruction have made it possible for a small nation, or even a sub-national group, to kill as many innocent people in a day as national armies killed in months of fighting during World War II. “The bottom line is this,” Lugar concluded: “For the foreseeable future, the United States and other nations will face an existential threat from the intersection of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.” It’s paradoxical that a diminished threat of a superpower nuclear exchange should somehow have resulted in a world where the danger of at least a single nuclear explosion in a major city has increased (and that city is as likely, or likelier, to be Moscow as it is to be Washington or New York). We tend to think that a terrorist nuclear attack would lead us to drive for the elimination of nuclear weapons. I think the opposite case is at least equally likely: A terrorist nuclear attack would almost certainly be followed by a retaliatory nuclear strike on whatever country we believed to be sheltering the perpetrators. That response would surely initiate a new round of nuclear armament and rearmament in the name of deterrence, however illogical. Think of how much 9/11 frightened us; think of how desperate our leaders were to prevent any further such attacks; think of the fact that we invaded and occupied a country, Iraq, that had nothing to do with those attacks in the name of sending a message.

**Other agencies don’t solve---they rely on Coast Guard action.**
**Alaska Dispatch 12** (“War games gauge US Navy's huge Arctic readiness gap”, Apr 30, 2012, http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/war-games-gauge-us-navys-huge-arctic-readiness-gap)//SK//
//It should surprise no one who follows Arctic matters, but according to the Kodiak Daily Mirror (via the Juneau Empire), fictional war games recently completed by a department of the U.S. Naval War College indicate the U.S. Navy is very unprepared to conduct significant security or disaster response missions by itself in the Arctic region, and unless the government's focus changes, is likely to remain that way. Eighty-eight participants from industry, government and the Navy's top command came together and found that as a force the Navy lacks practically everything that would allow sustained operation in the region, even cold-weather clothing. “We have limited capability to sustain long-term operations in the Arctic due to inadequate icebreaking capability,” Walter Berbrick, an assistant research professor at the Center for Naval Warfare studies, said. “The Navy finds itself entering a new realm as it relates to having to rely on other nations.” One of the most critical conclusions to come from the games is that if a crisis should happen in Arctic waters, the Navy would have to join with the U.S. Coast Guard and other countries, localities and private industries to respond effectively. The Coast Guard, because it already sporadically operates in the Arctic, would likely take the lead. “We are the only Arctic nation without an Arctic strategy,” said U.S. Navy Cmdr. Blake McBride, Arctic Affairs officer for Task Force Climate Change. “The Coast Guard and Department of Defense are working on a strategy to help answer the issue, and advocate for capabilities.” "Advocate for capabilities" means squeezing necessary funding from a U.S. government that has so far shown little interest in its role in the rapidly changing Arctic.//

//**New infrastructure and navigational operations solve readiness.**//
//**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK
In July 2011, the Coast Guard provided to Congress a study on the Coast Guard’s missions and capabilities for operations in high-latitude (i.e., polar) areas. The study, commonly known as the High Latitude Study, is dated July 2010 on its cover. The High Latitude Study concluded the following: [The study] concludes that future [Coast Guard] capability and capacity gaps will significantly impact four [Coast Guard] mission areas in the Arctic: Defense Readiness, Ice Operations, Marine Environmental Protection, and Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security. These mission areas address the protection of important national interests in a geographic area where other nations are actively pursuing their own national goals. U.S. national policy and laws define the requirements to assert the nation’s jurisdiction over its territory and interests; to ensure the security of its people and critical infrastructure; to participate fully in the collection of scientific knowledge; to support commercial enterprises with public utility; and to ensure that the Arctic environment is not degraded by increased human activity. The Coast Guard’s ability to support Defense Readiness mission requirements in the Arctic is closely linked to DoD responsibilities. The Coast Guard presently possesses the only surface vessels capable of operating in ice-covered and ice-diminished waters. The Coast Guard supports (1) DoD missions such as the resupply of Thule Air Base in Greenland and logistics support (backup) for McMurdo Station in Antarctica and (2) Department of State (DoS) directed Freedom of Navigation Operations. These unique Coast Guard capabilities have been noted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Navy’s Task Force Climate Change, and the recently issued Naval Operations Concept 2010. The common and dominant contributor to these significant mission impacts is the gap in polar icebreaking capability....223 Other capability gaps contributing to the impact on Coast Guard ability to carry out its missions in the Arctic include: • Communications System Capability – Continuous coverage along Alaska’s West Coast, the Bering Strait, and throughout the North Slope is required for exchanging voice and data communications with Coast Guard units and other government and commercial platforms offshore. • Forward Operating Locations - No suitable facilities currently exist on the North Slope or near the Bering Strait with facilities sufficient to support extended aircraft servicing and maintenance. Aircraft must travel long distances and expend significant time transiting to and from adequate facilities. This gap reduces on-scene presence and capability to support sustained operations in the region. • Environmental response in ice-covered waters - The technology and procedures for assessment and mitigation measures for oil spills in ice-covered waters are not fully developed or tested. Capability gaps in the Arctic region have moderate impacts on [the Coast Guard’s] Aids to Navigation (AtoN), Search and Rescue (SAR), and Other Law Enforcement (OLE) missions. Both AtoN and SAR involve the safety of mariners and will gain more importance not only as commerce and tourism cause an increase in maritime traffic, but as U.S. citizens in northern Alaska face more unpredictable conditions. Performance of OLE will be increasingly necessary to ensure the integrity of U.S. living marine resources from outside pressures.... In addition to the assessment of polar icebreaking needs, the Arctic mission analysis examined a set of theoretical mixes (force packages) of Coast Guard assets consisting of icebreakers, their embarked helicopters, and deployment alternatives using aviation forward operating locations in Arctic Alaska.... All [six] of the force mixes [considered in the study] add assets to the existing Coast Guard Alaska Patrol consisting of (1) a high-endurance cutter (not an icebreaker) deployed in the Bering Sea carrying a short range recovery helicopter, and (2) medium range recovery helicopters located at Kodiak in the Gulf of Alaska, and seasonally deployed to locations in Cold Bay and St. Paul Island.... These force packages and associated risk assessment provide a framework for acquisition planning as the Coast Guard implements a strategy for closing the capability gaps. By first recapitalizing the aging icebreakers, the Coast Guard provides a foundation for buildout of these force mixes. In addition to the cost of the icebreakers, the force packages require investment in forward operating locations and in medium range helicopters. The mission analysis reports developed rough order-of-magnitude cost estimates for forward operating locations at approximately $36M [million] each and for helicopters at $9M each.... The analysis shows that the current Coast Guard deployment posture is not capable of effective response in northern Alaska and that response may be improved through a mix of deployed cutters, aircraft, and supporting infrastructure including forward operating locations and communications/navigation systems.224





**Scenario 3 is Search and Rescue**

**Status quo is ruining SAR because of a lack of infrastructure- Aff solves**
**O'Rourke 12** (Ronald O'Rourke, Coordinator of the Congressional Research Service and specialist in naval affairs, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress, August 1, 2012, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf)//SK//
//The possibility of increased sea and air traffic through Arctic waters has increased concerns regarding Arctic-area search and rescue capabilities. Given the location of current U.S. Coast Guard operating bases, it could take Coast Guard aircraft several hours, and Coast Guard cutters days or even weeks, to reach a ship or a downed aircraft in distress in Arctic waters. In addition, the harsh climate complicates search and rescue operations in the region. Particular concern has been expressed about cruise ships that may experience problems and need assistance; there have already been incidents of this kind in recent years in waters off Antarctica. A May 7, 2011, press report stated: U.S. and Canadian military commanders say they are examining their rescue capabilities in the Arctic as a shrinking ice cap brought about by climate change opens up rich oil and gas reserves and draws more commercial traffic to the top of the globe.... [U.S. Admiral James Winnefeld, commander of the U.S. Northern Command and the North American Aerospace Defense Command, or NORAD] and NORAD’S deputy commander, Canadian Forces Lt. Gen. Marcel Duval, said more ships in the Arctic Ocean - and more jetliners crossing Arctic skies - could mean more emergencies. “More ships, more chances of accidents,” Duval said in a separate interview in his office at NORAD headquarters at Peterson. Last summer, the Canadian Coast Guard rescued 197 people from the cruise ship Clipper Adventurer, which ran aground inside the Arctic Circle.... Sea traffic is still light, with only about 25 ships a year currently crossing the maritime Arctic boundary between Alaska and the Yukon. But that number is increasing by 10 to 15 percent a year, according to NORAD statistics. Civilian air traffic over the Arctic is booming. U.S. and Canadian aviation agencies report more than 9,600 civilian flights across the North Pole in 2010, up nearly 21 percent from 2008.154 One option for mitigating the risks associated with cruise ship operations in the Arctic would be to require the vessels to sail in pairs, so that if one ship experiences a problem, the other one could quickly come to its aid. Increasing U.S. Coast Guard search and rescue capabilities for the Arctic could require one or more of the following: enhancing or creating new Coast Guard operating bases in the region; procuring additional Arctic-capable aircraft, cutters, and rescue boats for the Coast Guard; and adding systems to improve Arctic maritime communications, navigation, and domain awareness.155 It may also entail enhanced forms of cooperation with navies and coast guards of other Arctic countries.//

//**Effective Arctic Search and Rescue allows the deployment of V-22 Ospreys**//
//**Skinner 11** (Tony, former manager of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, “USN pushes Osprey for "extreme" Arctic SAR”, Current Issue - Fall 2011, http://www.boeing.com/ospreynews/2011/issue_01/versatile_s40_p2.html)//SK
The U.S. Navy team behind the V-22 Osprey has made an ardent case for the advantages of fielding the tiltrotor in the search and rescue (SAR) role. In a newly released report, the navy’s V-22 Joint Program Office (PMA-275) argues that to fully appreciate the benefits the Osprey could bring to SAR operations, a ‘fresh look’ at the aircraft’s capabilities is required. “SAR professionals can benefit from a re-evaluation of all available equipment in support of SAR tenets. Any re-evaluation should include addressing the limitations of legacy VTOL technology, and should include analyses of tiltrotor aircraft and how to exploit this game-changing aircraft,” the report stated. It said the tiltrotor would resolve current mid-mission hover limitations for US and international SAR agencies, providing an extended-range, high-speed capability without losing the advantages of a vertical medium lift platform. Casting its argument in the context of a growing number of cruise ships exploring the Arctic Ocean and the potential for disaster therein, PMA-275 contended that there is a “moral obligation to provide victims with the most professionally trained and capable resources possible.” Under the US National Search and Rescue Plan (NSP), responsibility for maritime and aeronautical SAR operations falls to the US Coast Guard (USCG), while the USAF covers mainland aeronautical SAR and US Pacific Command holds responsibility for Alaska. Current long- and medium-range search platforms include fixed-wing Lockheed Martin C-130 variants (8,300km range) with both the USCG and USAF, in addition to the coast guard’s Dassault HU-25 (3,300km) and CASA HC-144 (5,000km) aircraft. However, the report maintains that the shorter-range Eurocopter HH-65 (675km) and medium-range Sikorsky HH-60 (830km) ‘lack the high speed, long range and capacity as compared to the V-22’ (4,900km ferry range with aerial refuelling). PMA-275 also highlighted the V-22’s other “game-changing factors”, which include increased speed to recovery (485km/h in sustained cruise to 575km/h maximum), midmission hover, normal altitude (with passengers) up to 13,000ft and its multirole nature. “USCG and USAF rescue coordination centres (RCC) can enhance the V-22’s long-range capabilities through aerial refuelling and/or internal tanks,” the report stated. “The RCC could use the V-22 cargo capacity of 20,000lbs and fixed-wing altitude capability in support of operations to transport personnel, recover a larger number of survivors when needed and deliver supplies at a faster rate than legacy rotorcraft.” With the Arctic increasingly opening up to commercial shipping, the USN released its Arctic roadmap in October 2009, which called for analyses and assessments of the requirements of the SAR mission in the region. PMA-275 believes that any analysis should look at the ability of tiltrotor technology to address emergencies in such an extreme maritime environment. “The Arctic ice retreat emphasises the need to ensure vertical-lift aircraft availability for securing Arctic border areas, conducting SAR operations, maintaining US maritime and homeland security and protecting commerce,” the report said, adding that the V-22 can operate in temperatures as low as -54°C. According to PMA-275, multiple fixed- and rotarywing organisations are currently looking at applications for the Osprey. A spokesman confirmed that, in response to inquiries from both international and US domestic agencies, recommendations had been made on how the V-22 could be employed as a SAR platform. Perhaps surprisingly, the report suggested that the V-22’s ‘viability as a civil and military platform is growing as interested countries face fiscal restraints and increasing mission demands, and struggle with finding the right technology to support those demands’. Hitting back at criticism of the cost of the aircraft, PMA-275 claimed that, due to the Osprey’s blending of turboprop and helicopter operations, the tiltrotor was more operationally and cost-effective than a mix of platforms and had the potential to further lower infrastructure footprint costs. This latest report will come as welcome ammunition for Bell-Boeing’s sales team, members of which have expressed frustration that the requirements for new SAR aircraft are still largely written with the conventional helicopter in mind. For example, the USAF’s Personnel Recovery Recapitalization Program (HH-60 Recap) is calling for a platform capable of sustaining 130kts true air speed and a straightline unrefuelled combat mission radius of 220nm.

**V-22s are key to airpower**
**Settergren 00** (Daniel J., USAF Major, “NEW MISSIONS FOR THE CV-22 ‘OSPREY’ IN A CHANGING WORLD”, Research paper submitted to Air Command and Staff College, Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, April 2000, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA394968)//SK//
//The CV-22 is a new generation of aircraft that can take off and land like a helicopter and cruise like a fixed-wing airplane. This ability allows the aircraft to operate from small, unprepared landing zones or aircraft carriers like a helicopter and then transition to cruise mode where it can fly at speeds comparable to the C-130, which is two to three times faster than a helicopter. As an added benefit, the CV-22 has a much greater unrefueled range than most helicopters. According to a draft tactics manual being developed for the CV-22 at HQ AFSOC, the “critical aircraft features of the CV-22 will include: long-range, high-speed, passenger load capability; vertical/short takeoff and landing (V/STOL) capability; air refueling as a receiver from strategic (KC-135, KC-10) and tactical (MC-130E/H/P) tankers; first-pass precision navigation; robust self-defensive avionics; day/night TF/TA radar; defensive armament and logistics supportability in the field. The aircraft will have a combat radius of 500 nautical miles. The CV-22 will be fully shipboard compatible with self-folding prop-rotors.” Current plans call for the CV-22 to perform many of the missions already performed by the PAVELOW and COMBAT TALON. Missions such as infiltration, exfiltration, resupply, and Combat Search and Rescue will its primary roles. AFSOC has also identified the potential for expanded roles in “counterproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, increased humanitarian assistance, and counter-drug operations.” With the ability to fly at the speed of a C-130 and at ranges exceeding that of most helicopters, the CV-22 will be able to conduct missions that were impossible in the past. The 1980 attempt to rescue American’s held hostage in Iran provides an excellent example of how the OSPREY will improve the operational capabilities of SOF. During the attempted rescue mission, MC-130 aircraft landed at a desolate location in Iran known as Desert One. Their primary objective was to provide a source of fuel for the Navy CH-53 helicopters as they traveled to their first night’s hide site. Due to the range and speed of the CH-53s, the mission had to be planned for two periods of darkness. As history records, it was at Desert One that the mission failed due to a lack of usable helicopters and a tragic accident that occurred while helicopters were repositioning for their return to bade. Had the refueling operation been successful, more risks in the original mission lay ahead. The greatest risk to secrecy was maintaining the element of surprise. In order for the mission to be successful, the helicopters had to be hidden during the day so that they could complete the surprise assault on the embassy on the second night. If this mission could be replayed with CV-22s in the place of CH-53s, the outcome would have, in likelihood, been very different. The CV-22 would have allowed the mission to be completed in one night without the need for a ground-refueling site, thereby eliminating many of the critical risk factors for the mission.//

//**Airpower is key to softpower**//
//**Bellflower 08** (John W., Major Bellflower is an active duty Air Force Judge Advocate currently pursuing a Master of Laws Degree in Air and Space Law at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. Upon completion of his studies, he will be assigned to Air Force Space Command at Peterson AFB, CO. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not reflect the official policy or position of the United States Air Force, Department of Defense, or the U.S. Government., “The Soft Side of Airpower”, Small Wars Journal, 2008, https://docs.google.com/a/g.coppellisd.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:6KOkdsIGgtYJ:smallwarsjournal.com/mag/docs-temp/161-bellflower.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjRoF5Eev3io2xGzOykMFMRtQHO0AmxIme1MsPD1y-C0ZWWUivF3cywd4mufa28dcd4aeEVZ9UMd71XBC4kJbtg5Dh-W7Tjpowr9lK0aHI1U57LbwBDvgGf0GLYSHXZ4AJt-BEc&sig=AHIEtbT4iq17w94nuOh8_Hix1Inm_rFQ3A&pli=1)//SK
In the field of international relations, soft power refers to the ability of a nation to use its culture, political values, and foreign policy to attract and persuade others to adopt its goals. 13 It is contrasted with the hard power of military might and economic policies designed to achieve a desired result through coercion (or sometimes bribery). Merging the concept of soft power with airpower, however, results in something a little different. Soft airpower is a mechanism by which military skill sets can be used to achieve the same goals of traditional soft power. Soft airpower, then, is the use of airpower to meet the human security needs of a target population. By refocusing our airpower effort, to an extent, on constructive uses that meet the human security needs of a particular target population rather than on destructive uses that could drive that population into the arms of the terrorist movement, or at least cause them to remain ambivalent, we can demonstrate the illegitimacy of that movement and increase support for the counterterrorist effort. In other words, we can trade kinetic effects for magnetic effects. While kinetic effects are produced to subdue an enemy, magnetic effects are those that seek to attract a target population and persuade them to co-opt our goals and thereby remove a potential breeding ground for terrorism. These magnetic effects can only be had through the use of soft airpower; hard, or lethal, airpower never attracts, it coerces or repels by killing. In a counterinsurgency environment, the fight is for legitimacy in the eyes of the majority of the population, thus killing does not work. In almost every case, the population is composed of a minority for the insurgent’s cause and a minority for the government’s cause. The goal, then, for counterinsurgent forces is to be accepted as legitimate by the uncommitted majority. 14 This legitimacy can be gained through the provision of human security. Thus, soft airpower is not about killing people and breaking things, but rather healing people and building things. Given the threat that will surely occupy our future, the melding of airpower and humanitarian and security skill sets is imperative to ensure strategic success.

**No risk of a turn---hardpower kills cooperation and only softpower solves**
**Crossley 11/18** (Alexander, Politics & Parliamentary Studies student at the University of Leeds, quoting China Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying, “China: America’s Asian pivot misguided and dangerous; trust and economic cooperation better”, China Daily Mail, November 18, 2012, http://chinadailymail.com/2012/11/18/china-americas-asian-pivot-misguided-and-dangerous-trust-and-economic-cooperation-with-better/)//SK//
//Today the freshly re-elected President Obama is heading for Asia, taking in Cambodia, Burma and Thailand. His trip, the first since he won the election, is clearly aimed to secure friends in a region that is increasingly important. Sadly the core US strategy of military presence hasn’t changed, and for as long as America believes it can guide China’s development through brute force, tensions will only escalate. One of the centrepieces of the Obama administration has been its military pivot towards Asia, moving away from middle-east engagements and towards ensuring China doesn’t dominate the region. The policy epitomises American thinking that most global problems can be solved through military presence, but sadly they’ve ignored the benefits of diplomacy and humanitarian assistance. Concentrating on military strength will only increase the pressure between the USA and China, souring international relations and ruining the possibilities for meaningful alliances to develop. The US has been increasing regional pressure, moving military assets into the region (such as an increased marine presence in Darwin Australia) and pressing its allies to allow the stationing of military bases in their territory (Thailand). However, this emphasis on military presence is doing more to alienate Asian nations than ensure their support. Thailand is gradually standing up to American pressure and beginning to look towards Chinese friendship, which it sees as more mutually beneficial. Other countries will be increasingly enticed to do the same as China’s pull becomes stronger. China is taking a different tack to its international relations, one virtually guaranteed to have more long-lasting success. I’ve written elsewhere about China’s relatively slow military development, and how Chinese military spending won’t reach US levels until a full 10 years (2035) after it becomes the world’s biggest economy. This fact demonstrates that whilst China might occasionally engage in military posturing with other major regional players, it is not aggressively pursuing military capabilities. Instead China is concentrating on building bilateral and regional ties. The Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying has said that: “While developing ourselves, we must bring benefits to our neighbours and deepen the bond of mutual benefit with them. Only in this way would we be able to preserve peace and stability in the region and move forward with our neighbours toward shared prosperity and a common destiny.” By getting closer to its regional neighbours and making sure its own development helps other Asian nations, China is undermining outdated American efforts. For years China has been investing in regional ties by offering loans, aid ($2.1bn since ’92) and technical assistance to countries such as Cambodia. Over the last 6 years, more than $8bn has been invested in Cambodia by China, paling $900million invested by American firms. This is the kind of assistance the USA is starting to slowly realise it needs provide, but it no longer has the free-flowing finances that once gave America the ability to project its ambitions around the globe. This is not to say that the US is impotent on the world stage, but it needs to look past outdated military solutions. American human rights and democratic procedure are envied around the world, and can certainly provide a template for reform in countries such as Burma, one of the stops on Obama’s tour. I am by no means saying American democracy is perfect; issues surrounding lobbying and money in politics are well-known. However, the fundamental entrenchment of civil liberties is highly attractive to many who advocate the type of virtues espoused by Burma’s opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi. China may be the primary economic partner for Japan, Australia and other Asian players, but for security they turn to America and will continue to do so until China proves it can be trusted. It will take both nations to cool international relations and prevent a catastrophic build-up of tension. America must get past its own ego and realise China is not inherently evil; America cannot lead the world forever. It may have a different political history, but China’s economics are increasingly pro-market and its human rights are developing at a pace that puts historic Western liberal development to shame. Combatting corruption, working with the US on trans-Pacific free trade agreements and accelerating the process of democratisation that has begun in rural areas will all encourage faith in China’s ability to assume the top spot at the global table.//

//**Specifically, hardpower kill US-EU relations, softpower increases relations**//
//**Nye 04** (Joseph, former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Soft Power, The Means to Success in World Politics,”)//
//There is increasing evidence that the policies and tone of the new unilateralists were directly responsible for the decline of America s attractiveness abroad. A survey conducted a month before September II, 2001, found that Western Europeans already described the Bush administration’s approach to foreign policy as unilateralist. Nearly two years later, the Iraq War hardened these perceptions: pluralities of respondents said that American foreign policy had a negative effect on their views of the United States.1O8 In a dramatic turnabout from the Cold War strong majorities in Europe now see U.S. unilateralism as an important international threat to Europe in the next ten years. Nearly nine in ten French and Germans share this point of view, perceiving the threat of U.S. unilateralism as comparable to the threats represented by North Koreas or Iran’s developing weapons of mass destruction. Even among the Iraq coalition allies, Britain and Poland, two-thirds of these countries’ populations agree that U.S. unilateralism is an important threat.109//

//**Cooperation accesses every global impact—especially the Balkans**//
//**Stivachtis 10**<span style="color: #000000;">– Director of International Studies Program @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute [Dr. Yannis. A. Stivachtis (Professor of Poli Sci @ Virginia Polytechnic Institute & Ph.D. in Politics & International Relations from Lancaster University), THE IMPERATIVE FOR TRANSATLANTIC COOPERATION,” The Research Institute for European and American Studies, 2010, pg. [[http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html]]]</span>//
//There is no doubt that US-European relations are in aperiod of transition, and that the stresses and strains of globalization are increasing both the number and the seriousness of the challenges that confront transatlantic relations. The events of 9/11 and the Iraq War have added significantly to these stresses and strains. At the same time, internationalterrorism, thenuclearization ofNorth KoreaandespeciallyIran, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), the transformation ofRussiainto a stable and cooperative member of the international community, the growing power ofChina,the politicaland economic transformation andintegration oftheCaucasianandCentral Asianstates, the integrationandstabilization of theBalkancountries, the promotion ofpeace and stability in theMiddleEast,poverty, climate change, AIDS and otheremergentproblemsand situationsrequirefurthercooperationamong countries at the regional, global and institutional levels. Therefore,cooperation between the U.S. and Europe ismoreimperativethan everto deal effectively with these problems. It is fair to say that the challenges of crafting a new relationship between the U.S. and the EU as well as between the U.S. and NATO are more regional than global, but the implications of success or failure will be global. The transatlantic relationship is still in crisis, despite efforts to improve it since the Iraq War. This is not to say that differences between the two sides of the Atlantic did not exist before the war. Actually, post-1945 relations between Europe and the U.S. were fraught with disagreements and never free of crisis since the Suez crisis of 1956. Moreover, despite trans-Atlantic proclamations of solidarity in the aftermath of 9/11, the U.S. and Europe parted ways on issues from global warming and biotechnology to peacekeeping and national missile defense. Questions such as, the future role of NATO and its relationship to the common European Security and Defense policy (ESDP), or what constitutes terrorism and what the rights of captured suspected terrorists are, have been added to the list of US-European disagreements. There are two reasons for concern regarding the transatlantic rift. First,if European leaders conclude that Europe must becomecounterweightto the U.S., rather than a partner,it will be difficult to engage in the kind of open search for a common ground than an electivepartnership requires. Second, there is a risk that public opinion in both the U.S. and Europe will make it difficult even for leaders who want to forge a new relationship to make the necessary accommodations. If both sides would actively work to heal the breach, a new opportunity could be created.A vibrant transatlantic partnership remains a real possibility, but only if both sides make the necessary political commitment. There are strong reasons to believe that the security challenges facing the U.S. and Europe are more shared than divergent. The most dramatic case is terrorism. Closely related is the common interest in halting the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the nuclearization of Iran and North Korea. This commonality of threats is clearly perceived by publics on both sides of the Atlantic. Actually, Americans and Europeans see eye to eye on more issues than one would expect from reading newspapers and magazines. But while elites on both sides of the Atlantic bemoan a largely illusory gap over the use of military force, biotechnology, and global warming, surveys of American and European public opinion highlight sharp differences over global leadership, defense spending, and the Middle East that threaten the future of the last century’s most successful alliance. There areotherimportant,shared interestsas well.The transformation of Russiainto a stable cooperative member of the international communityisa priority both for the U.S.andEurope. They also have an interest inpromoting a stable regime inUkraine.It is necessary for the U.S. and EU to form a united frontto meet these challengesbecausefirst,there is a risk thatdangerous materials related toWMDwill fall into the wrong hands; andsecond,thespread of conflictalong those countries’ peripherycoulddestabilize neighboring countries and providesafe havens for terroristsand other international criminal organizations. Likewise, in the Caucasus and Central Asia both sides share a stake in promoting political and economic transformation and integrating these states into larger communities such as the OSCE. This would also minimize the risk of instability spreading and prevent those countries of becoming havens for international terrorists and criminals. Similarly, there is a common interest in integrating the Balkans politically and economically.Dealing withIran, Iraq, Lebanon, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as well as otherpolitical issues in the MiddleEastarealsoof a great concern for bothsides although the U.S. plays a dominant role in the region. Finally,US-European cooperation will be more effective in dealing with therising power of Chinathrough engagement but also containment. The post Iraq War realities have shown that it is no longer simply a question of adapting transatlantic institutions to new realities. The changing structure of relations between the U.S. and Europe implies that a new basis for the relationship must be found if transatlantic cooperation and partnership is to continue.The future course of relations will bedetermined above all by U.S. policy towards Europeand the Atlantic Alliance. Wise policy can help forge a new, more enduring strategic partnership, through which the two sides of the Atlantic cooperate in meeting the many major challenges and opportunities of the evolving world together. Buta policy thattakes Europe for grantedandroutinelyignores orevenbelittles European concerns,may force Europe to conclude that the costs of continued alliance outweigh its benefits. There is no doubt that the U.S. and Europe have considerable potential to pursue common security interests. Several key steps must be taken to make this potential a reality. First, it is critical to avoid the trap of ‘division of labor’ in the security realm, which could be devastating for the prospects of future cooperation. Second, and closely related to avoiding division of labor as a matter of policy, is the crucial necessity for Europe to develop at least some ‘high-end’ military capabilities to allow European forces to operate effectively with the U.S. Third, is the need for both the U.S. and Europe to enhance their ability to contribute to peacekeeping and post-conflict stabilization and reconstruction. Fourth, is the importance of preserving consensus at the heart of alliance decision-making. Some have argued that with the expansion of NATO, the time has come to reconsider the consensus role. One way to increase efficiency without destroying consensus would be to strengthen the role of the Secretary General in managing the internal and administrative affairs of the alliance, while reserving policy for the member states. Fifth is the need to make further progress on linking and de-conflicting NATO and EU capabilities. Sixth is the need for enhanced transatlantic defense industrial cooperation. Seventh, one future pillar for transatlantic cooperation is to strengthen US-European coordination in building the infrastructure of global governance through strengthening institutions such as the UN and its specialized agencies, the World Bank, the IFM, G-8, OECD and regional development banks. Finally, cooperation can also be achieved in strengthening the global economic infrastructure, sustaining the global ecosystem, and combating terrorism and international crime. To translate the potential of the transatlantic relationship into a more positive reality will require two kinds of development. First, the EU itself must take further steps to institutionalize its own capacity to act in these areas. Foreign policy and especially defense policy remain the areas where the future of a ‘European’ voice is most uncertain. Second, the U.S. and Europe need to establish more formal, effective mechanisms for consultation and even decision-making. The restoration of transatlantic relations requirespolicies andactions that governments on both sides of the Atlantic shouldsimultaneously adoptand not only a unilateral change of course. Developing a new, sustainable transatlantic relationship requires a series of deliberate decisions from both the U.S. and EU if a partnership of choice and not necessity is to be established. For the U.S., this meansavoiding the temptation, offered by unprecedented strength, to go it alonein pursuit of narrowly defined national interests. For the EU, the new partnership requires a willingness to accept that the EU plays a uniquely valuable role as a leader in a world where power still matters, and that a commitment to a rule-based international order does not obviate the need to act decisively against those who do not share that vision.//

//**Balkans conflict goes nuclear**//
//**Scherbak 08** – Advisor to the Chair of the Parliament of Ukraine (Yuri Scherbak (President of the Institute for Sustainable Development of Ukraine), Ten Theses about the Russian-Georgian Conflict: A View from Ukraine, Nov 2008, pg. http://www.boell.pl/downloads/Georgia_war_from_UA_perspective_by_Y.Scherbak.pdf)//
//2. The war in Caucasus attested that frozen conflicts, preserving tensions around them, pose a constant threat and, under the influence of interested parties, can explode despite international regimes and limitations, thus causing geopolitical changes in the region. This refers not only to Caucasus but also to Balkans, Transdnistria and other similar regions of the world. 3. The Russian-Georgian war became the first war between the member-states of the Commonwealth of Independent States and, as such, has actually put an end to the post-Soviet, post-Belovezzian world, which was grounded on the interests of the fSU republics and their recognition of the Russia’s leading role. 4. Compared to Ukrainian political parties, the Ukrainian civil and expert society has made a more sober assessment of the causes and consequences of this 5-day war. Among the main conclusions are the following: - by conducting the so-called soft ethnical cleansing (moving the Georgian population out of the self-proclaimed republics) and issuing passports of the Russian Federation to Abkhazians and Ossetians, for 17 years Russia has been deliberately preparing the recognition of the puppet regimes in order to undermine the integrity of Georgia and prohibit it from joining NATO; - the events in Caucasus are demonstrate the dangerous ignoring of international norms by the Russian leadership (Helsinki accords and international treaties) for the sake of reaching their geopolitical goals; - the strategic objective of Russia is to establish control over the routes of Caspian oil and gas transportation on the territory of Georgia and to prevent creation of independent routes for transferring energy carriers beyond Russia’s area of influence; - there is a strong possibility of a growing threat from Russia to Ukraine to be realized by artificial creation of a conflict, most likely on the territory of Crimea, to prevent Ukraine from joining NATO. 5. The current harsh financial and economic crisis with unpredictable geopolitical and social consequences is a new destructive element affecting the situation in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Caucasus states and the whole European region. There is a danger of neo-totalitarian regimes appearing on the continent, xenophobia and aggressive nationalism growing stronger and new isolationism adopted as main political philosophy. All of these developments could dramatically change the political map of Europe. 6. One of the results of the war between Georgia and Russia is a new challenge of Russia to Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Moldova, NATO and EU member states, which can mean abandonment of the post-Helsinki world and returning to the 19th-20th -century style division of spheres of influence among superpowers. 7. Taking into account the deep political crisis, conflict in leadership and division in society, the situation in Ukraine is chaotic and unbalanced. No one, except for the President and the National Security and Defense Council, stands against the Russian doctrine of Putin-Medvedev regarding the legitimacy of Russia’s military actions towards its closest neighbors on the grounds of protecting “Russian citizens” on the territory of sovereign states. The official Kyiv has no uniform action strategy regarding the existing threats from Moscow. The Ukrainian expert community considers the following optional strategies that Ukraine could adhere to in this situation: - increase efforts to ensure that Ukraine joins NATO as soon as possible; - withdraw the issue of NATO membership from the country’s agenda and instead concentrate on making progress in relationship with the European Union, following the advice of German and French experts; - start rearmament and modernization of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with some experts calling for renewal of the nuclear-missile potential of Ukraine; - conclude a separate military pact between Ukraine and the United States; - give in to Moscow’s pressure and proclaim a neutral, non-bloc state of Ukraine. 8. An important factor of the Russian pressure on Ukraine is the Black Sea Military Fleet of the Russian Federation, consisting of more than 100 warships and based in Sevastopol, which took part in the military operations in Caucasus. Moscow will insist on the prolongation of its stay in Sevastopol after 2017 (the final date of the stay provided for in the current bilateral treaty). At present, Ukraine has little means of control over the movement of the Russian warships on its own territory. 9. As a result of the massive campaign of Russian media, which could be considered an information war against Ukraine, 56% of Russians believe that Ukraine is hostile to Russia. Meanwhile only 8% Ukrainians consider Russia hostile to Ukraine. 10. The uniform position of the EU and NATO regarding common energy and security policy, involving participation of Ukraine and Georgia, could stop the Russia’s expansion in the postSoviet area. CONCLUSIONS 1. The war between Georgia and Russia opened a new dangerous phase of political instability. Russia took the road of building a new empire in the post-Soviet space and ignoring international legal norms. The use of force by a great nuclear power against its weak neighbors can lead to a new global conflict.//

//**And airpower also solves your terminal impacts**//
//**Khalilzad & Lesser 98** (Zalmay and Ian, Zalmay is a Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and Ian is executive director of the German Marshall Fund's Transatlantic Center in Brussels, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy”, 1998, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897.html)//SK
This subsection attempts to synthesize some of the key operational implications distilled from the analyses relating to the rise of Asia and the potential for conflict in each of its constituent regions. The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Continues… There are already some indicators to this effect. For example, constitutional and legal restraints in the form of Article 9 could prevent Japan from providing access, logistical support, and reinforcements in the context of crises in Asia. There is also relatively weak political support for all but the most narrow range of contingencies, as became evident in Japanese, Korean, and Southeast Asian reluctance to support U.S. gunboat diplomacy during the recent (1995–1996) China-Taiwan face-off. Even the Southeast states, which benefit most from U.S. presence and deterrent capabilities in the region, were conspicuously silent—and in some cases even undercut American efforts at restraining Chinese intimidation of Taiwan. Besides these growing political constraints, the fact remains that in some feasible contingencies the U.S. Air Force will have little or no access whatsoever to some regions in Asia. The absence of air bases in Southeast Asia and the northern Indian Ocean, for example, could threaten the execution of contingency plans involving either South Asia or Myanmar. The vast distances in the Asia-Pacific region could come to haunt Air Force operations, because existing facilities at Diego Garcia and in the Persian Gulf are too far away for any but the most minimal operations.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__Contention 3 is Solvency__**</span></span>
**Implementing a VTS solves- Norway proves**
**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part I)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 6, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span>)//SK//
//The Arctic, as observers know, is on the verge of historic change and with it must come the aids to navigation and safety infrastructure to ensure shipping can be conducted safely and with the reasonable prospect of rescue in the event of a major disaster. No place is more critical to safety in the Arctic than the confined waters of the Bering Strait. Therefore, what is needed is a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) to mitigate risk associated with increased shipping. The Norwegians have a VTS at Vardø on the northern tip of Norway that could serve as a model for the Bering.[2] According to the Norwegian Oceanic Vessel Traffic Management Services handbook, the Norwegian Coastal Administration’s missions are fourfold: Coastal Management, Maritime Safety, Maritime Transport and Emergency preparedness in case of acute pollution. Recognizing the Barents Sea is a financially productive water space representing three of Norway’s largest industries: oil, gas and fisheries, it is incumbent on Norway to manage maritime traffic to prevent accidents that could threaten their livelihood.[3] The US and Russian Federation economic zones in the Bering Strait are just as vulnerable as Norway’s.//

//**VTS will be able to monitor traffic and retain dialogue to take action.**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Wednesday, February 8, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK
Assuming a VTS is a next logic step in Arctic infrastructure development, alone it cannot be expected to reduce the risks during transit. While a VTS provides the situational awareness by monitoring, tracking and communicating with vessels, it also needs to have a response capability. The Vardø VTS has an emergency tow response service, as well as, two Rescue Coordination Centers in the North and South of Norway.[11] Recall for a moment the Russian Federation’s desire for ten NSR Rescue Centers. But Rescue Centers alone will not be enough to ensure safe passage. Given the recent environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico and environmentalists calls for spill response protocols prior to the US Government allowing multinational oil and gas companies to drill in the Arctic, putting appropriate controls in place, to respond in the event of a spill and/or a vessel run aground, would seem reasonable. Fortunately, the Arctic Council appears to be moving toward a Spill Response agreement in the near future. Naturally, as vessel traffic increases, the Bering Strait VTS must also have supporting infrastructure such as aids to navigation, a port facility to harbor emergency tow service vessels and icebreakers, heated hangers and helicopter pads for the Russian Federation Border Guard and/or US Coast Guard air rescue. A strategically placed spill response capability should also be included. All of which would be necessary investments. Vardø VTS has the following primary tasks: • Monitor ship movements - record, identify and detect irregularities • Prevent accidents by maintaining constant dialogue with vessel trafﬁc • Take action and alert when a situation requires it • Manage tugboat preparedness Norway • Monitor the coverage area in the Norwegian economic zone,Svalbard and Jan Mayen • Navarea 19 coordinator, issuing and sending of navigational warnings • Assembly and provision of statistics • 1st line response of the Norwegian Coastal Administration • Contact in the agreement on international notiﬁcation of acute pollution with Russia • Information exchange with Iceland • National coordinator of Single Hull, reporting to Helsinki Commission/European Maritime Safety Agency

**The Ports and Waterways Safety Act proves VTS is SOLELY Coast Guard jurisdiction**
**NAVCEN 12** (The Navigation Center of Excellence, US Department of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard, “PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY SYSTEM (PAWSS)”, Last Updated 03/13/2012 , http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/index.php?pageName=vtsPAWSS)//SK//
//The Coast Guard has a statutory responsibility under the Ports and Waterways Safety Act of 1972 (PWSA), Title 33 USC §1221to ensure the safety and environmental protection of U.S. ports and waterways. The PWSA authorizes the Coast Guard to "...establish, operate and maintain vessel traffic services in ports and waterways subject to congestion." It also authorizes the Coast Guard to require the carriage of electronic devices necessary for participation in the VTS system. The purpose of the act was to establish good order and predictability on United States waterways by implementing fundamental waterways management practices. In 1996 the U.S. Congress required the Coast Guard to begin an analysis of future VTS system requirements. Congress specifically directed the Coast Guard to revisit the VTS program and focus on user involvement, meeting minimum safety needs, using affordable systems, using off-the-shelf technology, and exploring public-private partnership opportunities. The Coast Guard’s PAWSS project was established to meet these goals.//

//**And your DAs are non-unique---the 2013 budget gave money to rebuild Coast Guard capabilities.**//
//**USCG 12** (United States Coast Guard, “U.S. Coast Guard Fact Sheet Fiscal Year 2013 President’s Budget”, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 13-Feb 2012, http://www.uscg.mil/posturestatement/docs/FY_2013_Budget_Fact_Sheet.pdf)//SK
BACKGROUND: The FY 2013 President’s Budget requests $9.97 billion for the Coast Guard, including $8.32 billion in discretionary funding. This Budget strikes the optimal balance between sustaining current operations and investing in future capabilities. KEY POINTS: Provides $1.2 billion to Responsibly Rebuild the Coast Guard. Investment in recapitalization is a top budget priority in FY 2013. Funds current services requirements to Efficiently Preserve Front-line Operations, including resources to operate and maintain new assets, and funding for personnel pay and benefit increases. Will Strengthen Resource and Operational Stewardship through administrative and programmatic reductions to improve efficiency and service delivery, while continuing investment in Coast Guard activities that provide the highest return on investment. Recognizes the criticality of the Arctic as a strategic National priority, and Prepares for the Future by addressing emerging threats and risks in this region. The Coast Guard will continue to provide superior value and service to the American public.

**AND Interpretation: aff must read a topical plan text and the negative must advocate either the status quo or a competitive policy option.**
**Predictability – there are an infinite amount of competing frameworks to evaluate a debate – using the USFG is the most predictable**
**Mearsheimer 95** (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95)
Nevertheless, critical theorists readily acknowledge that realism has been the dominant interpretation of international politics for almost seven hundred years. “Realism is a name for a discourse of power and rule in modern global life.” Still, critical theory allows for change, and there is no reason, according to the theory anyway, why a communitarian discourse of peace and harmony cannot supplant the realist discourse of security competition and war. In fact, change is always possible with critical theory because it allows for an unlimited number of discourses. And it makes no judgment about the merit or staying power of any particular one. Also, critical theory makes no judgment about whether human beings are “hard-wired” to be good or bad, but instead treats people as infinitely changeable. The key to how they think and behave is the particular “software program” that individuals carry around in their heads, and those can be changed. In essence, critical theorists hope to replace the widely used realist software package with new software that emphasizes communitarian norms. Once that switch has been made, states will cooperate with each other and world politics will be more peaceful.

**Policy simulation provides the greatest internal link to real world education**
**Walt 91** (Stephen, Professor – U Chicago, International Studies Quarterly, 35)
A second norm is relevance,a belief thateven highly abstract lines of inquiry should be guided by the goal of solving real-world problems. Because the value of a given approach may not be apparent at the beginning-game theory is an obvious example-we cannot insist that a new approach be immediately applicable to a specific research puzzle. On the whole, however, the belief that scholarship in security affairs should be linked to real-world issues has prevented the field from degenerating into self-indulgent intellectualizing. And from the Golden Age to the present, security studies has probably had more real-world impact, for good or ill, than most areas of social science. Finally, the renaissance of security studies has been guided by a commitment to democratic discourse. Rather than confining discussion of security issues to an elite group of the best and brightest, scholars in the renaissance have generally welcomed a more fully informed debate. To paraphrase Clemenceau, issues of war and peace are too important to be left solely to insiders with a vested interest in the outcome. The growth of security studies within universities is one sign of broader participation, along with increased availability of information and more accessible publications for interested citizens. Although this view is by no means universal, the renaissance of security studies has been shaped by the belief that a well-informed debate is the best way to avoid the disasters that are likely when national policy is monopolized by a few self-interested parties.

==**2AC cites requested**== 
===**2AC T-Infrastructure**=== 
//**NOTE: these are just the cards that are in the block, not the entire block**//
**WM-vessel traffic systems include infrastructure.**
**NOAA 10** (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Coast Pilot 9 - Chapter 2 - Edition 29, 2010, http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/nsd/xml2html.php?xml=coastpilot/files/cp9/CPB9_E29_C02_20110803_1812_WEB.xml)//SK
(527) Vessel Traffic Center (VTC) means the shore-based facility that operates the vessel traffic service for the Vessel Traffic Service area or sector within such an area.

**CI-Transportation infrastructure is the systems that allow people or goods to flow**
**Chamber of Commerce 10** TRANSPORTATION PERFORMANCE INDEX: COMPLETE TECHNICAL REPORT Measuring and Benchmarking Infrastructure Performance TRANSPORTATION INDEX LET’S REBUILD AMERICA US Chamber of Commerce September 19, 2010
*Dr. Martin Regalia was involved in reviewing and guiding the development of the Index. Janet Kavinoky, Director of Transportation Infrastructure, and Murphie Barrett, Senior Manager of Let’s Rebuild America, directed the project team. Project Team Michael Gallis, Michael Gallis & Associates Sue McNeil, University of Delaware Susanne Trimbath, STP Advisory Services Tom Skancke, Global Systems Solutions Qiang Li, University of Delaware Michelle Oswald, University of Delaware Erik Kreh, Michael Gallis & Associates T.K. Foulke, University of Delaware Jonathan Calhoun, University of Delaware Dustin Briggs, University of Delaware Zach Petersen, Michael Gallis & Associates Transportation Experts James Corbett, University of Delaware Mark Hanson, University of California, Berkeley Ashish Sen, University of Illinois at Chicago Economics Reviewers Jon Cooper, Consultant Ernie P. Goss, Creighton University Blancha Sanchez‐Robles, GLADIUS Real Estate Mark Schill, Praxis Strategy Group Stanley O. Shell, Stanurl, LLC Infrastructure Workshop Facilitators Kate Harvey and Ona Ferguson, The Consensus Building Institute BK Definition: Transportation Infrastructure  General Definition: Moving people and goods by air, water, road, and rail  Technical Definition: The fixed facilities (roadway segments, railway tracks, transit terminals, harbors, and airports), flow entities (people, vehicles, container units, railroad cars) and control systems that permit people and goods to traverse geographical space efficiently and in a timely manner and for the intended purpose. Transportation modes include highway, rail, air, and marine.

===2AC T-In the US=== 

**CI-Only the investment has to be in the US**
**Prefer grammatical correctness above all else, grammar determines best policy making skills**
**UPenn Law Review 1968** (“ A Continental Lawyer in an American Law School: Trials and Tribulations of Adjustment” Mirjan Damaška, Page 1364 of 1363-1378, JSTOR)//SK
Let me quickly sketch these often overlapping justifications. In the first place, it is claimed that a well developed legal grammar results in economy of thought. The concepts in such a grammar can be used independently of specific legal rules, just as elements in an algebraic system, and with all the advantages of algebra over arithmetic. Pursuing mathematical analogies, one can say that the urge to generalize results in factoring out common features, thus leading to simplification. A great many heretofore unrelated legal rules can be seen as offshoots of a single more general rule or principle. A related advantage attributed to legal grammar is clarity of vision, sometimes expressed by the old Latin tag praxis sine theoria caecus in via. Broad interrelated concepts facilitate awareness of the rami- fications of hypothetical legal situations, notably contemplated changes in the law. Thus law can more easily be tested by logic. It is further believed that profound analysis of the law sometimes fosters a sense of the proper order of analysis.3 This in turn goes a long way towards shielding the average legal mind from confusion. Finally, it is be- lieved that legal grammar represents an essential prerequisite for the satisfactory drafting of comprehensive legislation 4 and the successful ordering of judge-made law.6 The importance attached to legal grammar explains why initiation into it represents one of the minimal requirements of legal education in Continental law schools. Even a casual glance at any student manual will immediately reveal the extent to which "grammatical" considerations dictate the organization and presentation of the body of law
===2AC CP-States=== 
**There is an implementation DA to the CP**
**Funding at the state level for transportation isn’t sustainable-This guarantees poor implementation.**
**Puentes 11** Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow @ brookings, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy.” [http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]
First, state transportation funding sources are shrinking. Twenty-one states—including New York, Illinois, and Florida—saw transportation program area cuts in fiscal year 2010 and 11—like Michigan— expected cuts for the next fiscal year. 4 Part of the states’ funding problem is that they are still heavily reliant on the motor vehicle fuel tax (the gas tax) for the bulk of their transportation revenues. From 1995 to 2008, more than half of the funds states used for highways came directly or indirectly through state and federal gas taxes (Table 1). But slowdowns in fuel consumption overall and stagnant gas tax rates have squeezed this revenue source. 5 At the same time revenues are down, the demands for spending have increased. A litany of reports and analyses highlight the deteriorating condition of the nation’s transportation infrastructure. 6 Over a quarter of major roads’ rides in urbanized areas are not at acceptable levels. 7 According to the latest data, nearly 72,000 bridges (12 percent of the total) in the U.S. are considered to be “structurally deficient” meaning their condition had deteriorated to the point that rehabilitation or replacement is approaching or imminent. More than one-fifth of the bridges are deficient in states like Oklahoma, Iowa, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and South Dakota. 8 In addition to its condition, U.S. infrastructure lags when it comes to the deployment of advanced information and telecommunications technology.

**Commerce Clause proves navigation is legally under federal authority.**
**USACE****00** (US Army Corps of Engineers, Institute for Water Resources, was formed to provide forward-looking analysis and research in developing planning methodologies to aid the Civil Works program. “Inland Waterway Navigation Value to the Nation” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.spn.usace.army.mil/value_to_the_nation/InlandNavigation.pdf</span>)//SK//
//As the world’s leading maritime and trading nation, the United States relies on an efficient Maritime Transportation System (MTS) to maintain its role as a global power. The Federal government’s involvement in navigation projects dates to the early days of the United States, when rivers and coastal harbors were the primary paths of commerce in the new country. Federal interest in navigation stems from the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and subsequent Supreme Court decisions defining that the Federal government has the authority to regulate commerce and navigation, and to provide navigation improvements.//

//**VTS is done by the Coast Guard.**//
//**USCG 94** (United States Coast Guard, document prepared for the United States Department of Transportation, “Workload of the VTS Sector Operator and Implications for Task Design”, Office of Engineering, Logistics, and Development, FINAL REPORT//
//DECEMBER 1994, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA298246)//SK
The U.S. Coast Guard provides Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) in major ports to facilitate the safe, effective, and efficient use of waterways. Traditionally, VTS has served this function by monitoring the vessel's progress through the area, creating and maintaining a record of this progress, and communicating with the master/pilot, providing information about waterway conditions and about other traffic as it is needed. Now, increasing concern for the protection of the environment means that additional ports and additional users are presenting demands for additional information and services. At the same time, new technologies offer the possibility both of increasing the quality of the information provided to VTS users and of managing the workload of the VTS watchstander. The purpose of this study was to determine the factors currently influencing the VTS watchstander's workload in order to provide recommendations on possible re-design of tasks and on the best use of technology to support the VTS watchstander, and, ultimately, the waterway user.

**Increased globalization makes terrorist attacks more likely**
**Clark et al. 7**CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-TheCalifornia State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” Oct 2007.
Remembering that terrorist seek to achieve the 'biggest bang for the buck" spectacular long term physical results; maximized death and injury rates; significant economic impact and - the ripple effects of chaos, terror and panic -- and the global MTS remains a "target rich environment. In the past, maritime targets -- specifically vessels -- were over the horizon, out of sight and largely not thought of at all by the general public. Lack of an instant audience has contributed to the low incidence rate of maritime terrorism. However,as the capability of instant communications grows - allowing anyone with a cell phone to capture video of an event and put it out onto the internet in a matter of minutes; and as it becomes cheaper, faster, and easier to move passengers, materials and finished goods through the MTS from any point on the globe - many of the traditional impediments holding back terrorism in the maritime mode will evaporate. It is inconceivable that additional maritime terrorist acts will not occur. Therefore, to completely understand current port security conditions, the nature of prevailing port security risks and ultimately the status of our port vulnerability -- basically, how we got to where we are today – we need to review the road we have traveled and poke around a bit in some of those potentially embarrassing “dark places” where history lies and where "inconvenient facts" sometimes intersect with our preferred understanding of “convenient truths”.


===2AC CP- Privates=== 
**The block contains the last 3 cards from states as well as these 2**
**Privatization fails---prefer our evidence, it’s specific to water infrastructure**
**FWW 09** (Food & Water Watch, Food & Water Watch is a non-profit organization that advocates for common sense policies that will result in healthy, safe food and access to safe and affordable drinking water., “Case Studies of Failed Water Privatizations”, April 17th, 2009, http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/factsheet/case-studies-of-failed-water-privatizations/)//SK//
//Water privatization has left a trail of failures in cities across the United States. From Alabama to California, high rates and bad service plague communities who transfer control of their water service to the hands of corporations. The water barons prioritize stockholder returns over public wellbeing and leave municipalities to clean up the mess. Below are 20 examples of what happens with water privatization. While privateers have lauded these so-called successful operators, every case is marred by skyrocketing rates, sewage flooded basements, federal investigations, broken pipes, bad water quality, cost overruns, corruption or scandal.//
//**CP links to politics---politicians don’t want to risk it with privatization**//
//**Anderson 08** (Jenny, writer for New York Times, “Cities Debate Privatizing Public Infrastructure”, NYT, 8/26/08, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/27/business/27fund.html?pagewanted=all</span>, Date Accessed: June 13, 2012)//SK
The pace of recent work is encouraging, says Robert Poole, director of transportation studies at the Reason Foundation, pointing to projects like the high-occupancy toll, or HOT, lanes outside Washington. “The fact that the private sector raised $1.4 billion for the Beltway project shows that even projects like HOT lanes that are considered high risk can be developed and financed privately and that has huge implications for other large metro areas,” he said . Yet if the flow of money is fast, the return on these investments can be a waiting game. Washington’s HOT lanes project took six years to build after <span style="color: #000000;">Fluor</span> Enterprises, one of the two private companies financing part of the project, made an unsolicited bid in 2002. The privatization of Chicago’s Midway Airport was part of a pilot program adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration in 1996 to allow five domestic airports to be privatized. Twelve years later only one airport has met that goal — Stewart International Airport in Newburgh, N.Y. — and it was sold back to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. For many politicians, privatization also remains a painful process. Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, faced a severe backlash when he collected $3.8 billion for a 75- year lease of the Indiana Toll Road. A popular bumper sticker in Indiana reads “Keep the toll road, lease Mitch.”
===2AC DA-Aff Specific Link Turns=== 

**Bering Strait VTS is popular---subcommittee lobbying.**
**Marine Link 8/6** (Marine Link provides access to maritime news and journals online, “AWO Advocate Robust USCG Arctic Presence”, Monday, August 06, 2012, http://www.marinelink.com/news/advocate-presence-robust346787.aspx)//SK//
//Bruce Harland, Vice President-Commercial Services of Crowley Maritime Corporation, has testified on behalf of Crowley and the American Waterways Operators (AWO) before the U.S. Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee at a field hearing held in Kodiak, Alaska. The hearing, which was held at the request of Sen. Lisa Murkowski (AK-R) and led by Subcommittee chairwoman Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA), focused on the need for a robust U.S. Coast Guard presence in Alaska as the nation pursues expanding navigation opportunities in the Arctic region. “In spite of extreme weather events, unpredictable ice conditions, draft limitations and the area’s sheer remote location, AWO member companies have worked for many years within these limitations as well as in close coordination with the Coast Guard and State of Alaska to develop a safe, efficient and cost effective system that provides transportation and fuel delivery services to villages and business in the region, Mr. Harland stated. Mr. Harland's testimony urged the Subcommittee and U.S. Coast Guard to consider several points critical to continued safe navigation: · Accurate charting and hydrographic information; · Greater use of electronic charting and other aids; · Increased AIS coverage to help identify vessels; · A vessel traffic system for Unimak Pass and Bering Straits; · More accurate regional weather and tide information; · Improved Coast Guard incident response and search and rescue capabilities; · Greater ice breaking capabilities; and · Establishment of a Deepwater Arctic Port. Mr. Harland continued. "We greatly appreciate the Subcommittee’s consideration of what is necessary for safe operation and expansion moving forward."”//

//**Bering Strait VTS is popular---bipartisan support.**//
//**Work Boat 8/7** (Work Boat is a news site specializing in coastal and inland waterways, “Senators hold hearing on Arctic Coast Guard operations”, 8/7/2012, http://www.workboat.com/newsdetail.aspx?id=17652)//SK
KODIAK, Alaska - Senators Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, and Mary Landrieu, D-La., held a field hearing here at Coast Guard Base Kodiak to investigate the increased burdens on the Coast Guard being created by new Arctic offshore drilling operations and the receding ice that creates ever more water to patrol. On hand were Coast Guard Commandant Adm. Robert J. Papp, along with a panel of industry voices including Dr. Mark Myers of the University of Alaska-Fairbanks, Merrick Burden with the Marine Conservation Alliance, and Bruce Harland of Crowley Marine. Sen. Murkowski opened the proceedings by highlighting the commitment level of the Coast Guard, who are continuously asked to guard more of Alaska’s waters without a proportionate rise in funding. “We put you in harm’s way to guard us,” said Murkowski at the hearing. “We must ensure you have the assets to do what you do so honorably.” Climate models show that the Arctic Ocean could be free of summer ice entirely by 2030, creating a vast new area in need of patrol, and an area where jurisdiction may be contentious. “For right now, we are well prepared, because like we always do traditionally, we have multi-mission assets that we can deploy, that are very capable, and that are sufficient for the level of human activity that’s going on this summer and perhaps for the next three or four summers,” Papp told the senators. He also called Shell's preparations for spill response "an overabundance of caution in case something happens." Crowley's Harland spoke on behalf of the American Waterways Operators. “In spite of extreme weather events, unpredictable ice conditions, draft limitations and the area’s sheer remote location, AWO-member companies have worked for many years within these limitations as well as in close coordination with the Coast Guard and State of Alaska to develop a safe, efficient and cost effective system that provides transportation and fuel delivery services to villages and business in the region,” he said in his testimony. However, he did recommend that more attention be paid to accurate charting and hydrographic information; a greater use of electronic charting and increased AIS coverage; a vessel traffic system for Unimak Pass and Bering Straits; greater icebreaking capabilities; and the establishment of a deepwater Arctic port. On the issue of icebreakers, Adm. Papp told the senators that once the Polar Star returns to the water, that gives the U.S. enough cover as it finalizes a long-term plan. The Polar Star is currently being retrofitted at Vigor Industrial (formerly Todd Pacific Shipyard) and is scheduled to resume operations in 2013.
===2AC Cost/Plan won't be perceived=== 
**Aff needs 1-2 million at most**
**CETS 96** (Commission on Engineering and Technical Systems, “Vessel Navigation and Traffic Services for Safe and Efficient Ports and Waterways: Interim Report”, The National Academic Press, 1996, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=9262&page=30)//SK
The Coast Guard has estimated total VTS-2000 capital costs for 17 ports to be between $260 million and $310 million. Overall systems development is estimated at $145 million, and the equipment costs for individual ports are estimated to range from $5 million to $32 million (Anderson, 1996). Data from other sources obtained by the committee indicate that some low-cost private systems (which do not meet international standards for VTS but are similar in concept) can be constructed for about $1–2 million (U.S. House of Representatives, 1995). To put these numbers in some perspective (although U.S. cost data are not always comparable to foreign cost data), the Port of Rotterdam has stated that the central and local government has invested about $180 million in capital costs in its elaborate VTS system (Anderson, 1996). Although these data do not provide a good basis for establishing future capital costs, which cannot be estimated with any reliability until system designs have been completed, the figures do show that capital costs vary widely and depend entirely on local factors—specifically, port size and geography, individual needs, and the extent to which VTS meets those needs accurately and reliably.


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>













<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

=Negative= 
==Topicality/Procedurals== 
==Kritiks== 


===Hardt and Negri (Empire)=== 
**Transportation Infrastructure becomes the means for distribution of globalization by the Empire**
**Hardt and Negri 2k-** political philosopher and literary theorist currently based at Duke University, Italian Marxist sociologist, scholar, revolutionary philosopher and teacher (Michael and Antonio, 2000, “Empire”, pg. 298)
An adviser to the Federal … production and circulation.

<span class="Underline">**The powers of the Empire turn life into a tool for its survival while genociding the multitude to destroy social cooperation**</span>
**Hardt and Negri 2k-** political philosopher and literary theorist currently based at Duke University, Italian Marxist sociologist, scholar, revolutionary philosopher and teacher (Michael and Antonio, 2000, “Empire”, pgs. 365-366)
The powers of science,… wealth of virtuality.

<span class="Underline">**Our alternative is to vote negative as a means of educating about the will to be against- it’s the first step to political nomadism to break down the Empire**</span>
**Hardt and Negri 2k-** political philosopher and literary theorist currently based at Duke University, Italian Marxist sociologist, scholar, revolutionary philosopher and teacher (Michael and Antonio, 2000, “Empire”, pg. 211-212)
This recognition takes us … places of power.
==Counterplans== 
===STEM CP=== 
Text: The United States federal government should pass RE-ENERGYSE to increase STEM education.

**CP solves for STEM education that is key to leadership in the green sector—that prevents collapse of hegemony and economic destruction**
**Norris & Swezey 11/18/09** [Teryn Norris is a Senior Advisor at the Breakthrough Institute, Public Policy major at Stanford University, and Director of Americans for Energy Leadership. Devon Swezey is Project Director at the Breakthrough Institute and graduated from Stanford University in 2008, “Winning the Clean Energy Race: A New Strategy for American Leadership,” http://itsgettinghotinhere.org/2009/11/18/winning-the-clean-energy-race-a-new-strategy-for-american-leadership/]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The implication is clear: </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">world’s burgeoning clean technology industries.”</span>
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Guam Advantage CP</span>=== 
**CP Text: The People’s Republic of China should discourage any further anti-Japanese demonstrations and prevent attempts to land on Senkaku and Diaoyu. The Constitutional Monarchy of Japan should suspend its plans to buy Senkaku and Diaoyu. The People’s Republic of China and the Constitutional Monarchy of Japan should develop a crisis management team to consult each other in emergency situations, bar military exercises from both sides, and establish plans to create joint development of the area’s resources.**
**CP solves South China Sea disputes**

**Jiang 12** (Wenran, Wenran Jiang is a professor of political science at the University of Alberta and a senior fellow of the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada., “Islands of Nationalism”, Aug. 31, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/islands-of-nationalism-by-wenran-jiang)/|__http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/islands-of-nationalism-by-wenran-jiang)//__]]</span>SK

In the short term, China’s government should discourage further anti-Japanese demonstrations.

AND

consequences of a worsening bilateral relationship would extend far beyond __[[#|China]]__ and Japan.

====1NR cards==== 
**CP solves military disputes.**
**Glaser 12** (Bonnie S., Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Armed Clash in the South China Sea”, Council on Foreign Relations, April 2012, http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883)//SK//
//The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and China agreed upon multilateral risk//
//AND//
//search and rescue activities, and mitigation of damage caused by natural calamities.//

//**CP solves competing economic interests and encourages joint development.**//
//**Glaser 12** (Bonnie S., Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Armed Clash in the South China Sea”, Council on Foreign Relations, April 2012, http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883)//SK
Resource cooperation is another preventive option that is underutilized by claimants in the South China
AND
in place that could be expanded into disputed areas to encourage greater cooperation.

**Perm fails---US action in the South China Sea sends the wrong message and derails efforts of cooperation.**
**CNN 12** (Quoting the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s spokesman, “China blasts U.S. for sending 'wrong message' on South China Sea disputes”, August 04, 2012, http://articles.cnn.com/2012-08-05/asia/world_asia_china-us-sea-dispute_1_sansha-city-south-china-sea-differences-and-risk)//SK
China blasted the United States on Saturday for its recent public criticism and urging of
AND
contributes to stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific and not otherwise."

===VTS CP=== 
**CP Text: The United States Coast Guard should implement a Bering Strait Vessel Traffic System.**

**VTS solves their internal link to ports**
**Strader 12**(Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Wednesday, February 8, 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html)//SK//
//Assuming a VTS is a next logic step in Arctic infrastructure development, alone it cannot be expected to reduce the risks during transit. While a VTS provides the situational awareness by monitoring, tracking and communicating with vessels, it also needs to have a response capability. The Vardø VTS has an emergency tow response service, as well as, two Rescue Coordination Centers in the North and South of Norway.[11] Recall for a moment the Russian Federation’s desire for ten NSR Rescue Centers. But Rescue Centers alone will not be enough to ensure safe passage. Given the recent environmental catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico and environmentalists calls for spill response protocols prior to the US Government allowing multinational oil and gas companies to drill in the Arctic, putting appropriate controls in place, to respond in the event of a spill and/or a vessel run aground, would seem reasonable. Fortunately, the Arctic Council appears to be moving toward a Spill Response agreement in the near future. Naturally, as vessel traffic increases, the Bering Strait VTS must also have supporting infrastructure such as aids to navigation, a port facility to harbor emergency tow service vessels and icebreakers, heated hangers and helicopter pads for the Russian Federation Border Guard and/or US Coast Guard air rescue. A strategically placed spill response capability should also be included. All of which would be necessary investments. Vardø VTS has the following primary tasks: • Monitor ship movements - record, identify and detect irregularities • Prevent accidents by maintaining constant dialogue with vessel trafﬁc • Take action and alert when a situation requires it • Manage tugboat preparedness Norway • Monitor the coverage area in the Norwegian economic zone, Svalbard and Jan Mayen • Navarea 19 coordinator, issuing and sending of navigational warnings • Assembly and provision of statistics • 1st line response of the Norwegian Coastal Administration • Contact in the agreement on international notiﬁcation of acute pollution with Russia • Information exchange with Iceland • National coordinator of Single Hull, reporting to Helsinki Commission/European Maritime Safety Agency//

//**VTS also solves your Russia internals**//
//**Strader 12** (Olin Strader is an arctic military strategist with experience assisting senior military leaders in developing and implementing a strategic vision for a peaceful opening of the Arctic. Olin's work has contributed across the continuum of Arctic national defense policy, strategy and plans. He has worked closely with the Canadian defense establishment, developing complementary and bilateral efforts designed to contribute to a peaceful opening of the Arctic., “A Bering Strait Vessel Trafﬁc Service: Critical Infrastructure for an Opening Arctic (Part II)”, The Arctic Institute is an interdisciplinary and independent source for information and in-depth analysis about the developments of technology within the Arctic, Monday, February 12, 2012, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/02/1278-bering-strait-vessel-trafc-service.html</span> || RT)//
//Internationally, the resulting level of cooperation ensuing from bilateral negotiations between the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US State Department could serve to further reset the US-Russian relations. Potentially, the Russian Duma may be encouraged to ratify the US-Russia Maritime Boundary. Environmentalists may be less concerned about the risk of oil and gas spills. The US Coast Guard and the Russian Federation Border Guard could better enforce international and national laws. Insurance companies like Lloyd’s of London who hold maritime liabilities may be more inclined to reduce shipping companies rates, saving companies who use the NSR the money that can then be reinvested. Alternately, as this international waterway opens to international trade the threats to US and Russian security will increase. Having a national presence at the gateway to the Arctic could mitigate potential criminal or hostile acts and deter illicit activity. Finally, having an International Maritime Organization certified Bering Strait VTS fulfills the pledge made by Arctic nations to enhance Arctic marine safety, to protect the marine environment and expand Arctic marine infrastructure.//

//**VTS solves their readiness internal links**//
//**Flohberger 10** (Margaret Loudon, Master’s Thesis for Faculty of Science and Technology at the University of Stavanger, “Suggested Improvements For Ship-Installation Collision Risk Models To Reflect Current Collision Avoidance Systems”, 15/06/2010, http://brage.bibsys.no/uis/bitstream/URN:NBN:no-bibsys_brage_14061/1/Flohberger%2c%20Margaret%20Loudon.pdf)//SK
Collision risks can be reduced by Vessel Traffic Service (VTS), which provides active monitoring and navigational advice for vessels. VTS is an integrated part of StatoilHydro’s emergency response center. In Norway, the StatoilHydro Marin provides ocean monitoring services for 51 StatoilHydro installations. They are able to monitor 80% of the NCS petroleum activity by radar. AIS transponders are used in the identification of vessels from a distance of 40 nm. VTS is able to alert installations of a vessel on collision course within an hour estimated impact. Their objective is to identify and warn ships on a course towards an installation. VTS coordinates all offshore SV, ERRV and guard vessels. Many VTS stations have radars, and the addition of AIS offers a number of positive benefits. The Statoil Hydro Marine surveillance consists of 50 integrated radars, 10 AIS transponders, and 19 VHF stations. As shown in Figure 4-4, there is a significant overlap of the radar coverage, which offers optimal target detection. VTS data may also be used during accident investigations. For example, the captain of the Grane told the investigation team that the ships speed was 1.5-2 knots just before impact; however, records from Statoil Marin indicate that the boat's speed at the collision ranged from 2 -7 knots, and was probably a few less than 7 knots (34). VTS can also assist with data collection. Monitoring by VTS plays a main role in Norway’s RNNP project. As shown in Figure 4-5, collision trends such as "major accident DFU vessel on a collision course” can be measured with more accuracy.



==Disadvantages== 
===Senate DA (For Robert Danco)=== 

**Democrats are winning now- But it’s close**
**Silver 9/18-** an American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer (Nate, 9/18/12, “FiveThirtyEight Forecast: G.O.P. Senate Hopes Slipping”, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/fivethirtyeight-forecast-g-o-p-senate-hopes-slipping/ || RT)
Democrats are now favored to … to hold a filibuster-proof majority.

**Federal transportation investment is unpopular and can turn the election – empirically Obama gets blamed**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USC News 4-17</span>-12 [“Transit Policy Is Pivotal on Road to the White House”, [[http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/|http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/]]]
__[[#|Following]]__ decades of bipartisan consensus, … the country in financial trouble.

<span class="Underline">**President popularity is inherently tied to senate races- Swings voters**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Breshnahan et. Al 9/19-** </span>staff political analysts for Politico ( John Bresnahan and Manu Raju and David Catanese September 19, 2012, “Democrats surge in key Senate campaigns”, [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=A7E014A3-DD82-4FD9-BD32-20780C13DFF2]] || RT)
Democratic candidates in some of … it needs to be focused.”

<span class="Underline">**And the GOP only need 4 seats to win**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Halloran ‘9/21-** </span>political analyst for NPR (Liz, 9/21/12, “GOP Senate Takeover Hopes Dim, But Too Early To Put On Ice”, [[http://www.capradio.org/news/npr/story?storyid=161564037]] || RT)
Republican dreams of taking control … says, "this is a tad disconcerting."

<span class="Underline">**That’ll put Inhofe in charge**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lacey 9/21-** </span>staff writer for the Thinkwrite: Climate Progress (Stephen, 9/21/12, “Elizabeth Warren Warns GOP-Controlled Senate Would Make Climate Denier Jim Inhofe Head Of Environment Committee”, [[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/09/21/887801/elizabeth-warren-warns-gop-controlled-senate-would-make-climate-denier-jim-inhofe-head-of-environment-committee/?mobile=nc]] || RT)
With more than 300 votes targeting … of environmental and infrastructure issues.

<span class="Underline">**Inhofe will implement the Keystone pipeline**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FoxNews 8/23-** </span>(8/23/12, “Inhofe supports Romney-Ryan energy plan”, [[http://www.fox23.com/news/local/story/Inhofe-supports-Romney-Ryan-energy-plan/Yjq8dvH6B0S5td1B8sWhkw.cspx]] || RT)
Senator Jim Inhofe welcomed the … on the path to prosperity."

<span class="Underline">**That’s game over for climate**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Olbermann ’11-** </span>an American political commentator and writer (Keith, 8/23/11, “Activist Bill McKibben on why Tar Sands pipeline is ‘game over’ for the climate”, [[http://current.com/shows/countdown/videos/activist-bill-mckibben-on-why-tar-sands-pipeline-is-game-over-for-the-climate]] || RT)
For a fourth straight day outside … game over for the climate.”

<span class="Underline">**[Cross apply their warming card or]**</span>

**Warming Turns the case**
**Brown ‘08**, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008
[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]
In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert … __unravel__ under these extreme stresses.


====Military Sequestrations Scenario==== 



**Republican Senate creates gridlock and causes budget cuts**

**Abdullah ’12-** Staff writer for CNN (Halimah, 6/8/12, “Could Congress go from bad to worse after election?”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/08/politics/congress-worse-election/index.html]] || RT)

__If the balance of power … to kick in next year.__



**Sequestration will tank every aspect of Heg**

**Pellerin 9/21-** Writer for the American Forces Press Service, the US Air Force’s military (Cheryl, 9/21/12, “Comptroller: Sequestration Would Devastate Defense Spending”, [[http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123319134]] || RT)

__Sequestration will devastate every aspect …__ move __[[#|forward]]__," the general added.



**That turns the case or**



**That causes cuts to military spending that turn military readiness and heg- the impact is nuclear war**

Michael <span style="font-size: 12pt;">O'Hanlon</span>, Director of Research and Senior Fellow @ Brookings in the 21st Century Defense Initiative<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 9/23</span> (The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, [[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx]])

Most worrisome is the default … come home from the world.



====Economic Sequestrations Scenario==== 



**Republican Senate creates gridlock and causes budget cuts**

**Abdullah ’12-** Staff writer for CNN (Halimah, 6/8/12, “Could Congress go from bad to worse after election?”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/08/politics/congress-worse-election/index.html]] || RT)

__If the balance of power … to kick in next year.__



**Sequestration will gut the economy**

**AIA 9/20-** Aerospace Industries Association (9/20/12, “Sequestration Study: 956,181 Small Business Jobs at Risk”, [[http://www.sacbee.com/2012/09/20/4838242/sequestration-study-956181-small.html]] || RT)

ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 20, 2012 -- __New analysis projects …__ viewed at www.secondtonone.org.



====Turns Case==== 

**Republican Senate creates gridlock and causes budget cuts**

**Abdullah ’12-** Staff writer for CNN (Halimah, 6/8/12, “Could Congress go from bad to worse after election?”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/08/politics/congress-worse-election/index.html]] || RT)

__If the balance of power … to kick in next year.__



**Sequestration turns every aspect of the topic**

**Snyder 9/10-** Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio (Tanya, 9/10/12, “How Will Automatic Budget Cuts Affect Transportation?”, [[http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/09/10/how-will-automatic-budget-cuts-affect-transportation/]] || RT)

Friday was the Obama administration’s … of America. Who needs that?
===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
**The election gave Obama enough capital to get a compromise done**
**Curtis 12/5-** John M. Curtis writes politically neutral commentary analyzing spin in national and global news. He’s editor of OnlineColumnist.com and author of Dodging The Bullet and Operation Charisma. (John, 12/5/12, “Obama calls GOP's fiscal cliff bluff”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.examiner.com/article/obama-calls-gop-s-fiscal-cliff-bluff|__http://www.examiner.com/article/obama-calls-gop-s-fiscal-cliff-bluff__]]</span> || RT)
Cashing in on some political capital from his Nov. 6 landslide election, President Barack Obama stiffened his bargaining stance to GOP Republicans calling for no more taxes and entitlement reform. Held hostage by GOP party boss Grover Norquist’s “No Tax Pledge” fanatics in the House, Obama has told Republicans there won’t be any compromise on raising taxes three percent on individuals earning over $250,000 a year. Beyond the “fiscal cliff,” Barack sees the GOP House blocking raising the debt ceiling, something Aug. 5, 2011 that caused S&P to downgrade U.S. debt. With the economy teetering on a double-dip recession, the U.S. economy can’t afford more acrimony between Democrats and Republicans. When S&P downgraded U.S. credit, they cited Washington’s gridlock, where partisan wrangling supercedes doing what’s right for the economy and nation.

**But spending on transportation infrastructure costs Obama political capital**
**Capital 12**[online news publication, “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower Moment?”, March 27]
At the moment, it can safely be said that building support for increased transportation spending is not the president's top priority, as he heads into a general election with the economy just showing signs of recovery. Infrastructure funding—and what were once packaged as stimulus projects, generally—have taken a back seat to, say, the price of gas and, by extension, the conspicuously expanded drive for domestic energy resources. The lesson that Obama and the administration seem to have taken from the times they have pushed hard for spending on big transportation-infrastructure projects is that they're a tougher sell than expected, or at least that voters don't necessarily see them as the economic generators they eventually become. So, for example, the president insisted that the federal stimulus act include $8 billion for high-speed rail, but then absorbed a great deal of grief over ensuing allocations, which were criticized as politically motivated. And while spending on less costly projects has been easier for the administration, politically, it has also been less rewarding. For instance, the stimulus included $1.5 billion in funding for so-called TIGER grants, a small pot of money (it was later expanded to $2.6 billion) that’s been sprinkled around the country. They hardly got noticed nationally, other than by transportation advocates, who felt they were too small to make any meaningful change to the physical transportation system itself. (There was a total of $48 billion in stimulus spending on projects around the country, but aside from the high-speed rail component and the TIGER grants, those funds are generally considered to have been inserted at the initiative of Congressional leaders and were not part of a coordinated national transportation strategy.) The reforms that transportation boosters have in mind are, generally speaking, more profound: an ongoing commitment to paying for large capital projects and maintenance of existing infrastructure; sustainable sources of revenue to offset that cost; alterations to the system of incentives that drive commercial and residential growth, and to the metrics that measure the efficiency and cost of moving people around their regions and across the country. “The federal tax code subsidizes some really bad development,” says Andrew Goldberg, managing director of government relations at the American Institute of Architects, which has advocated tax-code reforms. “A lot of the funding goes toward sprawl, toward building where land is cheapest." “I know this isn’t sexy," said Schank, "but he could direct D.O.T. to start doing the research necessary to implement real performance measures and accountability for transportation.” In other words, the administration could lay out a precise vision for how it would like to see the money it controls spent, and support that vision accordingly. The American Society of Engineers says there’s a $3 trillion backlog in surface transportation spending. The United States spends a mere 2.4 percent of its G.D.P. on transportation and water infrastructure, compared to Europe’s 5 percent and China’s 9. Many transportation experts also argue for a significantly higher tax on gas. This is politically difficult, if not impossible, as illustrated by the way Republicans have latched onto currently high gas prices as an argument against Obama, and the president's high-profile response, cheerleading the expansion of domestic oil and gas exploration as a solution. But the fact is gas here is cheap, relatively speaking: Americans are likely at any given time to be paying about half as much for fuel as Europeans. Yet gas-related revenue is where much of the nation’s infrastructure funding comes from. “We’ve got one of the lowest federal gasoline taxes in the world,” said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. “The other countries that have gasoline taxes as low as ours include Saudi Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait.” And that’s not the only issue with the gas tax, which is about 18 cents per gallon and which provides much of the funding for the nation's highways and mass transit (New York’s M.T.A. derives some $1 billion from it per year). It's not pegged to inflation, so it provides ever less revenue in real terms. Also, it's a victim of its own success: Today, thanks in part to the fact that the gas tax makes it more expensive to burn fuel, cars are much more fuel-efficient. Less consumption equals less revenue. But while transit-dedicated revenue from gas is going down, the need to spend money on the nation's aging transportation infrastructure is going up. “The interstate system, most of it is already approaching half a century old,” says Yaro. “It’s at the end of its useful life. Big stretches need to be rebuilt and there’s no money to rebuild them, much less create any new capacity in the system." The president, at least rhetorically, recognizes that. He's proposed a half-trillion-dollar, six-year transportation plan. And he’s suggested a $50 billion infrastructure bank that would leverage private funding. As of now, they're still just proposals. “So far he hasn’t really put his political capital behind it because he has other priorities,” said Schank. In this year’s State of the Union, the president made a strong argument for infrastructure spending. “During the Great Depression, America built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge,” he said. “After World War II, we connected our States with a system of highways. Democratic and Republican administrations invested in great projects that benefited everybody, from the workers who built them to the businesses that still use them today.” “In the next few weeks, I will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape that slows down too many construction projects. "But you need to fund these projects. Take the money we're no longer spending at war, use half of it to pay down our debt, and use the rest to do some nation-building right here at home.” The “you” in that sentence was Congress. But the Republican-controlled House is looking to cut transportation spending, not increase it. It will be all the president can do to get them to agree to pass the Senate's version of this year's transportation-spending bill, which more or less extends the status quo. “The White House hasn’t recommended funding sources, and the Congress has been reluctant to propose new revenues,” says Yaro, of the Regional Plan Association. House Republicans in particular have staked out a radical position on infrastructure funding, going so far as to propose eliminating mass-transit financing entirely from the gas tax. In fact, even if Obama wins a second term, his ability to do anything much more than hold the line on current spending levels would probably be contingent on his party winning both houses of Congress. "I think then he could really use the hammer of the bully pulpit of a sitting president who does’t have to run again," said Chris Ward, who served as the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's executive director before moving to construction firm Dragados. "I think he’ll be a very different president once he gets reelected." “I’ll tell you this, if he wins a second term, he’s going to come into a second term with some domestic priorities,” said Schank. “Investing in transportation is not a bad way to invest his political capital.”

**New spending wrecks commitment- Collapses compromise and causes sequestration**
**Tschida 11/7-** Staff writer for ABC (Stephen, 11/7/12, “Biden: Dems ready to compromise on 'fiscal cliff'”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.wjla.com/articles/2012/11/top-democrat-wants-quick-deal-on-fiscal-cliff--81843.html|__http://www.wjla.com/articles/2012/11/top-democrat-wants-quick-deal-on-fiscal-cliff--81843.html__]]</span> || RT)
The election victory has given Obama new leverage in the upcoming showdown with House Republicans controlling over fiscal issues. But a rejuvenated Obama still confronts a re-elected House GOP majority that stands in powerful opposition to his promise to raise tax rates on upper-bracket earners, although House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, has left the door open for other forms of new revenue as part of a deal to tackle the spiraling national debt. "The American people have also made clear that there is no mandate for raising tax rates," Boehner said Tuesday night. "What Americans want are solutions that will ease the burden on small businesses, bring jobs home, and let our economy grow. We stand ready to work with any willing partner - Republican, Democrat, or otherwise - who shares a commitment to getting these things done."

**Sequestration will gut the economy**
**AIA 9/20-** Aerospace Industries Association (9/20/12, “Sequestration Study: 956,181 Small Business Jobs at Risk”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.sacbee.com/2012/09/20/4838242/sequestration-study-956181-small.html</span> || RT)
ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 20, 2012 -- New analysis projects nearly half of 2.14 million sequestration-related job losses to hit small business ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 20, 2012 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- A new analysis of an economic report concludes that 956,181 small business jobs nationwide are among those at risk under sequestration, a finding that heightens concern about widespread job losses across defense and non-defense employers of all sizes starting in 2013. The analysis updates a study conducted for the Aerospace Industries Association in July by Dr. Stephen S. Fuller, Dwight Schar Faculty Chair and director for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, in conjunction with Chmura Economics and Analytics. The study projected a loss of 2.14 million American jobs in the event that Budget Control Act mandates take effect on January 2, 2013 – the date on which $1.2 trillion budget cuts begin to impact federal programs. "Further analysis shows that nearly half of all sequestration job losses would come from small businesses," said Fuller. "This is a crucial finding given the importance of small business job creation to the economy and their role as sources of innovation for national defense." Fuller's analysis concludes that approximately 45 percent of all job losses resulting from cuts to DOD and non-DOD programs in the first year of sequestration would come from businesses with 500 or fewer employees. "At a time when our leaders are calling for policies to help small businesses boost their capacity for job creation, sequestration threatens to drain the economy of a vital source of economic growth and innovation," said AIA President and CEO Marion C. Blakey. "Clearly, sequestration is not only a concern for prime contractors and international manufacturers. Sequestration has the potential to do equal harm to Main Street and Wall Street." According to the Small Business Administration, 20 percent of Defense Department prime contracts and 35 percent of DOD subcontracts in 2011 were awarded to small firms. In 2011, 18 percent of NASA prime contracts went to small businesses and 38 percent of its subcontracts to small companies. Additionally, between two-thirds and three-quarters of defense industrial purchases are directed to small suppliers, many of which are the only source of specialty parts and technologies for the U.S. military. "The threat of sequestration is already causing my company to be very cautious," said Joe Murphy, chairman of The Ferco Aerospace Group, a small family-owned aerospace sheet metal fabrication business in Franklin, Ohio. "Congress doesn't realize how quickly manufacturing capability will be lost with sequestration. It can take 12 months or longer to train a welder and once those skills are lost, it will take months to recover." The SBA says that small firms employ half of all private sector employees. According the U.S. Census Bureau, small businesses create 90 percent of all new jobs on an annual basis. "The last thing this country can afford is legislative trickery like automatic sequester cuts that knock the legs out from underneath small and minority businesses that generate 90 percent of new jobs every year," said Roger A. Campos, president and CEO of the Minority Business Roundtable. "Sequestration budget cuts set to hit in January will destroy a total of over 2 million American jobs, half in smaller businesses. The uncertainty has already caused business owners to stop hiring. It will take bipartisan agreement to repeal sequestration and replace it with a smarter approach to the budget and debt reduction. Let's not put small businesses on the chopping block." "This important report highlights how small businesses – the backbone of our economy – are especially vulnerable to sequestration," said Mackenzie Eaglen, resident fellow at the Marilyn Ware Center for Security Studies. "From a national security perspective, letting the avoidable occurrence of sequestration force small businesses to exit the defense industry or go out of business altogether would not only hurt our economy but taxpayers." State-by-state numbers and Dr. Fuller's analysis may be viewed at <span style="color: #000000;">www.secondtonone.org</span>.

**That turns the case [Cross apply their econ impact OR]**

**Turns the case**
**Royal 10** – Director of CTR
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write: The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with anincrease in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag'effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in theuse of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political sciencescholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===Fiscal Cliff DA (Stanford)=== 
**Obama and congress will compromise over the sequestration now**
**Reuters 2/8-** (2/8/13, “UPDATE 3-White House warns of damaging 'sequestration' spending cuts”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/02/08/usa-fiscal-whitehouse-idUSL1N0B870D20130208|__http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/02/08/usa-fiscal-whitehouse-idUSL1N0B870D20130208__]]</span> || RT)
Cutting government spending remains a high priority for Republicans, who still control the House of Representatives. However, the White House pushed back on Friday by painting a dire picture of what would happen if the automatic cuts were allowed to go into effect. Obama wants Republicans to agree to a short-term budget package to avoid the deepest of the automatic spending cuts but has said it needs to be "balanced" - that is, include some increases in revenue from closing tax loopholes. Boehner has said he would block any delay in those cuts unless other spending cuts and reforms are agreed to. Key Democratic U.S. senators are discussing a plan that could be introduced next week to turn off the sequester for 10 months, through Dec. 31, and pay for it half with new revenues and half with spending cuts, a Democratic Senate aide said. While no elements have been decided upon yet, provisions under discussion include ideas Democrats have raised before, such as raising taxes on carried interest, a provision aimed at wealthy investors who profit from hedge funds and private equity partnerships. Tax breaks for corporate jets and large oil companies could also be targeted, along with higher payroll taxes on smaller private firms organized as S-corporations. The senators are also considering reductions in farm subsidies, which they consider a spending cut. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid discussed the plan on Thursday with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray, Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus and Appropriations Committee Chairman Barbara Mikulski.

**And Obama’s credibility will be key to a deal**
**Stein, 1/21-** (Sam, “Obama's Post-Partisan Promise Mellows Amid First Term Gridlock,” Huffington Post, January 21, 2013,http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/21/obama-post-partisan-promise_n_2490700.html || RT)
But gridlock has a way of grinding down even the most idealistic soul. During Obama's first term, Republicans rebuffed the president time and again. Eventually, the president's aides concluded that more could be done working around or against Congress, rather than with it. The seeds of that approach -- which involve barnstorming outside the Beltway, urging voters to pressure elected officials, and taking harder lines for negotiations -- were planted during the payroll tax cut fight in early 2012 and bloomed during the fiscal cliff standoff at year's end. With high-stakes budget fights over the debt ceiling, government funding, and sequestration coming in the first few months of 2013, the more combative Obama will be front and center once more. "The president took the case directly to the American people and involved them more fully in the discussion," Axelrod said of the payroll tax cut and fiscal cliff fights. "I do think that was a significant change and one that is still very much available to the president. Not just available to him. I think he is convinced that is essential going forward."

**Now is key- Political capital is waning in the squo**
**The Jersey Journal 1/30-** (1/30/13, “Obama's challenge: Selling ideas, not just himself”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.nj.com/us-politics/index.ssf/2013/01/obamas_challenge_selling_ideas.html|__http://www.nj.com/us-politics/index.ssf/2013/01/obamas_challenge_selling_ideas.html__]]</span> || RT)
"The political capital he gained during the campaign will begin to depreciate as fights over the continuing [budget] resolution drag on, as all these new crises pop up ahead of the midterms," Madden said.

**But spending on transportation infrastructure costs Obama political capital and collapses the deal- Causes sequestration**
**Capital 12**[online news publication, “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower Moment?”, March 27]
At the moment, it can safely be said that building support for increased transportation spending is not the president's top priority, as he heads into a general election with the economy just showing signs of recovery. Infrastructure funding—and what were once packaged as stimulus projects, generally—have taken a back seat to, say, the price of gas and, by extension, the conspicuously expanded drive for domestic energy resources. The lesson that Obama and the administration seem to have taken from the times they have pushed hard for spending on big transportation-infrastructure projects is that they're a tougher sell than expected, or at least that voters don't necessarily see them as the economic generators they eventually become. So, for example, the president insisted that the federal stimulus act include $8 billion for high-speed rail, but then absorbed a great deal of grief over ensuing allocations, which were criticized as politically motivated. And while spending on less costly projects has been easier for the administration, politically, it has also been less rewarding. For instance, the stimulus included $1.5 billion in funding for so-called TIGER grants, a small pot of money (it was later expanded to $2.6 billion) that’s been sprinkled around the country. They hardly got noticed nationally, other than by transportation advocates, who felt they were too small to make any meaningful change to the physical transportation system itself. (There was a total of $48 billion in stimulus spending on projects around the country, but aside from the high-speed rail component and the TIGER grants, those funds are generally considered to have been inserted at the initiative of Congressional leaders and were not part of a coordinated national transportation strategy.) The reforms that transportation boosters have in mind are, generally speaking, more profound: an ongoing commitment to paying for large capital projects and maintenance of existing infrastructure; sustainable sources of revenue to offset that cost; alterations to the system of incentives that drive commercial and residential growth, and to the metrics that measure the efficiency and cost of moving people around their regions and across the country. “The federal tax code subsidizes some really bad development,” says Andrew Goldberg, managing director of government relations at the American Institute of Architects, which has advocated tax-code reforms. “A lot of the funding goes toward sprawl, toward building where land is cheapest." “I know this isn’t sexy," said Schank, "but he could direct D.O.T. to start doing the research necessary to implement real performance measures and accountability for transportation.” In other words, the administration could lay out a precise vision for how it would like to see the money it controls spent, and support that vision accordingly. The American Society of Engineers says there’s a $3 trillion backlog in surface transportation spending. The United States spends a mere 2.4 percent of its G.D.P. on transportation and water infrastructure, compared to Europe’s 5 percent and China’s 9. Many transportation experts also argue for a significantly higher tax on gas. This is politically difficult, if not impossible, as illustrated by the way Republicans have latched onto currently high gas prices as an argument against Obama, and the president's high-profile response, cheerleading the expansion of domestic oil and gas exploration as a solution. But the fact is gas here is cheap, relatively speaking: Americans are likely at any given time to be paying about half as much for fuel as Europeans. Yet gas-related revenue is where much of the nation’s infrastructure funding comes from. “We’ve got one of the lowest federal gasoline taxes in the world,” said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. “The other countries that have gasoline taxes as low as ours include Saudi Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, and Kuwait.” And that’s not the only issue with the gas tax, which is about 18 cents per gallon and which provides much of the funding for the nation's highways and mass transit (New York’s M.T.A. derives some $1 billion from it per year). It's not pegged to inflation, so it provides ever less revenue in real terms. Also, it's a victim of its own success: Today, thanks in part to the fact that the gas tax makes it more expensive to burn fuel, cars are much more fuel-efficient. Less consumption equals less revenue. But while transit-dedicated revenue from gas is going down, the need to spend money on the nation's aging transportation infrastructure is going up. “The interstate system, most of it is already approaching half a century old,” says Yaro. “It’s at the end of its useful life. Big stretches need to be rebuilt and there’s no money to rebuild them, much less create any new capacity in the system." The president, at least rhetorically, recognizes that. He's proposed a half-trillion-dollar, six-year transportation plan. And he’s suggested a $50 billion infrastructure bank that would leverage private funding. As of now, they're still just proposals. “So far he hasn’t really put his political capital behind it because he has other priorities,” said Schank. In this year’s State of the Union, the president made a strong argument for infrastructure spending. “During the Great Depression, America built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge,” he said. “After World War II, we connected our States with a system of highways. Democratic and Republican administrations invested in great projects that benefited everybody, from the workers who built them to the businesses that still use them today.” “In the next few weeks, I will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape that slows down too many construction projects. "But you need to fund these projects. Take the money we're no longer spending at war, use half of it to pay down our debt, and use the rest to do some nation-building right here at home.” The “you” in that sentence was Congress. But the Republican-controlled House is looking to cut transportation spending, not increase it. It will be all the president can do to get them to agree to pass the Senate's version of this year's transportation-spending bill, which more or less extends the status quo. “The White House hasn’t recommended funding sources, and the Congress has been reluctant to propose new revenues,” says Yaro, of the Regional Plan Association. House Republicans in particular have staked out a radical position on infrastructure funding, going so far as to propose eliminating mass-transit financing entirely from the gas tax. In fact, even if Obama wins a second term, his ability to do anything much more than hold the line on current spending levels would probably be contingent on his party winning both houses of Congress. "I think then he could really use the hammer of the bully pulpit of a sitting president who does’t have to run again," said Chris Ward, who served as the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's executive director before moving to construction firm Dragados. "I think he’ll be a very different president once he gets reelected." “I’ll tell you this, if he wins a second term, he’s going to come into a second term with some domestic priorities,” said Schank. “Investing in transportation is not a bad way to invest his political capital.”

**Sequestration will gut the economy**
**AIA 9/20-** Aerospace Industries Association (9/20/12, “Sequestration Study: 956,181 Small Business Jobs at Risk”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.sacbee.com/2012/09/20/4838242/sequestration-study-956181-small.html</span> || RT)
ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 20, 2012 -- New analysis projects nearly half of 2.14 million sequestration-related job losses to hit small business ARLINGTON, Va., Sept. 20, 2012 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- A new analysis of an economic report concludes that 956,181 small business jobs nationwide are among those at risk under sequestration, a finding that heightens concern about widespread job losses across defense and non-defense employers of all sizes starting in 2013. The analysis updates a study conducted for the Aerospace Industries Association in July by Dr. Stephen S. Fuller, Dwight Schar Faculty Chair and director for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, in conjunction with Chmura Economics and Analytics. The study projected a loss of 2.14 million American jobs in the event that Budget Control Act mandates take effect on January 2, 2013 – the date on which $1.2 trillion budget cuts begin to impact federal programs. "Further analysis shows that nearly half of all sequestration job losses would come from small businesses," said Fuller. "This is a crucial finding given the importance of small business job creation to the economy and their role as sources of innovation for national defense." Fuller's analysis concludes that approximately 45 percent of all job losses resulting from cuts to DOD and non-DOD programs in the first year of sequestration would come from businesses with 500 or fewer employees. "At a time when our leaders are calling for policies to help small businesses boost their capacity for job creation, sequestration threatens to drain the economy of a vital source of economic growth and innovation," said AIA President and CEO Marion C. Blakey. "Clearly, sequestration is not only a concern for prime contractors and international manufacturers. Sequestration has the potential to do equal harm to Main Street and Wall Street." According to the Small Business Administration, 20 percent of Defense Department prime contracts and 35 percent of DOD subcontracts in 2011 were awarded to small firms. In 2011, 18 percent of NASA prime contracts went to small businesses and 38 percent of its subcontracts to small companies. Additionally, between two-thirds and three-quarters of defense industrial purchases are directed to small suppliers, many of which are the only source of specialty parts and technologies for the U.S. military. "The threat of sequestration is already causing my company to be very cautious," said Joe Murphy, chairman of The Ferco Aerospace Group, a small family-owned aerospace sheet metal fabrication business in Franklin, Ohio. "Congress doesn't realize how quickly manufacturing capability will be lost with sequestration. It can take 12 months or longer to train a welder and once those skills are lost, it will take months to recover." The SBA says that small firms employ half of all private sector employees. According the U.S. Census Bureau, small businesses create 90 percent of all new jobs on an annual basis. "The last thing this country can afford is legislative trickery like automatic sequester cuts that knock the legs out from underneath small and minority businesses that generate 90 percent of new jobs every year," said Roger A. Campos, president and CEO of the Minority Business Roundtable. "Sequestration budget cuts set to hit in January will destroy a total of over 2 million American jobs, half in smaller businesses. The uncertainty has already caused business owners to stop hiring. It will take bipartisan agreement to repeal sequestration and replace it with a smarter approach to the budget and debt reduction. Let's not put small businesses on the chopping block." "This important report highlights how small businesses – the backbone of our economy – are especially vulnerable to sequestration," said Mackenzie Eaglen, resident fellow at the Marilyn Ware Center for Security Studies. "From a national security perspective, letting the avoidable occurrence of sequestration force small businesses to exit the defense industry or go out of business altogether would not only hurt our economy but taxpayers." State-by-state numbers and Dr. Fuller's analysis may be viewed at <span style="color: #000000;">www.secondtonone.org</span>.

**Turns the case**
**Royal 10**– Director of CTRJedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write: The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with anincrease in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag'effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in theuse of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political sciencescholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

==Strategies== 
===Greenhill=== 
Round 1 vs Pace ES (HTF w/Gas Tax)
1NC: Fear of Death K, Cap K, Senate DA (plan causes Republican Senate), Case D
2NC: Fear of Death K
1NR: Senate DA
2NR: Fear of Death K

Round 3 vs UC Lab School YN (Space Transportation Infrastructure)
1NC: Fear of Death K, Cap K, Senate DA, Stem CP, Case D
2NC: Fear of Death K, Stem CP (condo was on this flow)
1NR: Senate DA
2NR: Fear of Death K, Stem CP (condo was on this flow)

Round 6 vs Notre Dame GB (High Speed Rail)
1NC: Extra T, Cap K, Senate DA, Dedev, Case D
2NC: Senate DA, Case D
1NR: Dedev
2NR: Senate DA, Dedev

===Bronx=== 
Round 1 vs McDonough RT (Climate adaptation)
1NC: Extra T, Fear of Death K, Senate DA, Case Turns
2NC: Fear of Death K, Case Turns
1NR: Extra T, Senate DA
2NR: Extra T

Round 4 vs Weston ?? (Nextgen)
1NC: Extra T, Fear of Death K, Senate DA, Case turns
2NC: Fear of Death K, Senate DA, Case Turns
1NR: Extra T
2NR: Extra T

Round 6 vs Lakeland SB (Port Security)
1NC: Port Security=not T, Fear of Death K, Senate DA, Redirect previously allocated grants CP, case D
2NC: Fear of Death K, Case D
1NR: Redirect grants CP, Senate DA
2NR: Redirect grants CP, Senate DA

Double Octofinals/Sextodecimal vs Lexington AD (Guam)
1NC: Multi plank international actor CP, Senate DA, T-military, Fear of Death K, Case Turns
2NC: Senate DA, Case Turns
1NR: Multi plank international actor CP, Rest of Case Turns
2NR: CP, DA, Case Turns

===Dowling=== 
Round 2 vs Millard North CK (National Infrastructure Bank)
1NC: T-Structures, Fiscal Cliff DA, Fear of Death K, Stem Politics (immigration reform of h1b visas) DA, case D
2NC: Fiscal Cliff, Stem PTX, Case D
1NR: T-Structures
2NR: Fiscal Cliff, Stem PTX, Case D

Round 3 vs Bishop Guertin RV (Alaska Ports)
1NC: We read our aff (VTS) as a CP with the Strader and Flohberger evidence, Alaska do the plan CP, F-35 Tradeoff DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Fear of Death K, Case D
2NC: VTS CP, Fear of Death K
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case D
2NR: Condo good

Round 5 vs Bloomington HZ (she read some random aff but always kicks it and goes for wipeout)
1NC: Fear of Death K, T Structures, Fiscal Cliff DA, Anthro turns
2NC: T
1NR: Answering Wipeout, PTX
2NR: T, Presumption

Doubles vs Des Moines Roosevelt HH (public transportation infrastructure)
1NC: T Vehicles + Vagueness, Empire K, Anthro Turns
2NC: Empire K
1NR: condo, T Vehicles + Vagueness
2NR: Vagueness -__-

===Golden Desert=== 
Round 2 vs Damien LR (Bering Strait Tunnel)
1NC: VTS CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Land Grants, Fear of Death K, Case D
2NC: Fear of Death, Case D
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: Fear of Death


Round 4 vs Loyola DW (Port Dredging)
1NC: Fear of Death K, T-Investment + Increase + Extra T, Mechanical Dredging PIC (<3 you Vikram), Dredging DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case D
2NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, Case D
1NR: T-Investment + Increase + Extra T
2NR: Extra T


Round 6 vs Juan Diego EC (Border Transportation Infrastructure)
1NC: Fear of Death K, ADV CP for relations and trade, Fiscal Cliff DA, T-United States, Case D
2NC: Fear of Death , Case D
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Fear of Death


===Stanford=== 
Round 2 vs College Prep HJ (Mayport CVN)
1NC: Fear of Death K, Homeporting PIC (again <3 for Vikram), Bio D DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Military, Case D
2NC: Homeporting PIC, Bio D DA, 1/2 case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff, other 1/2 of case
2NR: PIC, Bio D DA

Round 4 vs Loyola DW (Port Dredging)
1NC: Fear of Death K, Fiscal Cliff DA, Bio D DA, T-Investment + Increase + Extra T, EPA CP, Case D
2NC: EPA CP, Bio D DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case D
1NR: T-Investment + Increase + Extra T
2NR: Extra T (lol, again)

Round 5 vs Lakeland SP (Port Security)
1NC: Fear of Death K, Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Investment + Transportation Infrastructure + Increase + Extra T, Remove Cost Share Requirements CP, Case D
2NC: Fear of Death K, Case D
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Fear of Death K

Round Doubles vs Sage Ridge CL (JPPSP)
1NC: T-Military, Fiscal Cliff DA, Fear of Death K, Electricity DA, Case D
2NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, Case D
1NR: T-Military
2NR: T-Military

===Berkeley=== 
Round 1 vs Bellarmine AM (Encountering the Other through Transportation Infrastructure)
1NC: Cap K, Anthro Turns and Mann Turns on Case
2NC: Cap
1NR: Anthro + Mann
2NR: Anthro

Round 3 vs Interlake HL (Airports D & G, Insecurity, Debate) Many, many thanks to Sarah and Chris for an excellent round and a productive and intellectually stimulating discussion even though I didn't contribute much to it :)
1NC: Agonism FW, Advocacy PIC, Mann Turns on Case
2NC: Advocacy PIC
1NR: Agonism FW
2NR: Advocacy PIC

Round 5 vs New Trier WW (Icebreakers)
1NC: T-Vehicles, Sequestration DA, Fear of Death K, Backstopping DA on the Methane ADV, Case D
2NC: Backstopping DA, Case D
1NR: Sequestration DA
2NR: Sequestration DA, Case D

Round Trips vs Leland AV (NIB)
1NC: T-TI, Sequestration DA, Export-Import Bank CP, Fear of Death K
2NC: Fear of Death K (everything except theory and framework)
1NR: Fear of Death K (theory and framework)
2NR: Fear of Death K