=[[toc]] Cite Requests= 
**For __all__ cites email Priyanka** **at ghosh895@gmail.com**
=Affirmative= 
==Guam== 
===Inherency=== 
**The existing roadway network is deficient – improvements are needed to prevent congestion and traffic impacts from the relocation**
**NEPA 11**[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]

An improved network of roads on Guam is needed as part of the mission-...action is explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1.

**Plan Text:**
The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam
===Advantage 1 is Relations=== 
**The Guam Road Network is required to support construction of facilities needed for effective Marine Corps projects & realignment**
**NEPA 11**[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]

The Guam Road Network (GRN) is proposed to become Guam’s nonmilitary roadway system...housing on Guam, and training to support the Marine Corps’ defensive mission.

**Realignment is key to resetting the bilateral alliance with Japan**
**Delgado 6/30**/12 (Nick Delgado, KUAN – Guam’s News Network, “Guam briefing held on Capitol Hill”, [[http://www.kuam.com/story/18921168/2012/06/30/guam-briefing-held-on-capitol-hill]] // Veevz)

Guam – The House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific, and the... a more serious impact to our critical bilateral relations with the Japan government.

**US-Japan relations are key to Asian stability, and US position across the world**
**US Dept. of State 5/5** [US Department of State, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, “Background Note: Japan, Updated on March 5, 2012, http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/4142.htm /ghosh]

Because of the two countries' combined economic and technological impact on the world, the...budget. Japan broadly supports the United States on nonproliferation and nuclear issues.

**Failure to cement the alliance results in Korean, Taiwan, and Indo-Pak war – that goes nuclear**
**Armitage et al., 2k** (Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

Asia, in the throes of historic change, should carry major weight in the... U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy.

**A. China war causes extinction**
**Hsiung 01** (James Hsiung, Professor of Politics @ New York University, Ph.D of Political Science @ Columbia University, Twenty-First Century World Order and the Asia Pacific: Value Change, Exigencies, and Power Realignment, August 11, 2001, access via Google Books)

But decision-makers cannot afford such luxury. Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore’s Senior... be absolutely nothing left in Japan or Taiwan or in the conflict’s wake.
**B. A Korean conflict causes global thermonuclear exchange killing all life**
**Kim 02** (Kim Myung Chul, Executive Director of Center for Korean-American Peace, “Agreed Framework is Brain Dead; Shotgun Wedding is the Only Option to Defuse Crisis,” October 24, 2002, http://nautilus.org/napsnet/napsnet-policy-forum/nautilus-institute-policy-forum-online-agreed-framework-is-brain-dead-shotgun-wedding-is-the-only-option-to-defuse-crisis/ )

Any military strike initiated against North Korea will promptly explode into a thermonuclear exchange between... would end up finding themselves reduced to a second-class nuclear power.

**C. Indo-Pak conflict results in extinction GDS**
**Fai 01** (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, [[http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/20]] 01/July/13/05.html)

The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical... an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.

**Alliance key to innovation to solve warming** 
**Calder 10** (Kent E., Director, Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies SAIS/John Hopkins University, "U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.-JAPAN COOPERATION," http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf)

Active U.S.-Japan cooperation energy and environmental issues has a powerful,...and do to the configuration of embedded political interests in both countries. 

**The United States has a moral responsibility to act against global warming**
**Claussen 6** (Eileen, October 5, "Climate Change: The State of The Question and The Search for The Answer", President of the PEW center for climate change, http://www.pewclimate.org/press_room/speech_transcripts/stjohns2of2.cfm)
Buy Africa produces just 2 to 3 percent of worldwide emissions...developed countries that were producing the lion's share of these. 
===Advantage 2 is Guam Economy=== 
**Guam’s economy is stagnating**
**Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11** (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,” [[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic%20%20Development%20Strategy.pdf|http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic %20Development%20Strategy.pdf]], YX)

Guam has seen a precipitous drop in revenues from three major sectors of the economy... .9 billion in 2009 after increasing 0.5% in 2008.

**Realignment - the link is reverse causal – failure to realign wrecks Guam’s economy**
**Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11** (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,” [[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic%20Development%20Strategy.pdf|http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic %20Development%20Strategy.pdf]], YX)

The U.S. Department of Defense has maintained bases on Guam since the... apparent that a continued military presence is a significant component of Guam’s economy.

**It’s the best solution in the fight against poverty – it pumps billions of dollars into the economy**
**Calvo 12** [Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, Five-term senator within Legislature of Guam, “Second State of the Island Address,” February 1, 2012, [[http://www.pacificnewscenter.com/images/pdf]] /stateofislandaddresssecond.pdf/ghosh]

We also need the military buildup. It is clear as day to me that... the IT needs of the Marines. The possibilities go on and on.

**Humanity has a moral obligation to alleviate poverty.**
**UN 2006** (General Assembly Press Release. December 2006. “WORLD HAS MORAL OBLIGATION TO FIGHT POVERTY, PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS OF MOST VULNERABLE, SAYS GENERAL ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT IN HUMAN RIGHTS DAY MESSAGE”)

Following is the message by Sheikha Haya Rashed Al Khalifa ( Bahrain), President of... hand in hand that we all have a moral duty to take action.

**Poverty outweighs an ongoing thermonuclear war**
**Gilligan 2000** (James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, 2000 edition, Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic, p. 195-196)

The 14 to 18 million deaths a year caused by structural violence compare with about... the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world.

**Structural harms outweigh all other considerations**
**Abu-Jamal 98** (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19/98, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)

We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree,...so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.
===Solvency=== 
**The Guam Road Network is critical to provide an effective and sustainable military relocation**
**NEPA 11** [Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]

The Guam Road Network (GRN) is proposed to become Guam’s nonmilitary roadway system... on Guam, and training to support the AMDTF and its defensive mission.

**Total cost need to fund transportation infrastructure exceeds financing anticipated from Japan – additional funding needed**
**NEPA 11**[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]

DOD’s cost estimates indicate that the total cost for utilities is likely to exceed the...financing by $614 million and $1.05 billion, respectively.

**The Department of Defense and FHWA is key to provide funding for the roadway improvements – DAR Program provides the means**
**NEPA 11**[Barry Leonard (editor), Associate Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering @ Naval Postgraduate School, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation: Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force: Environ. Impact State. (EIS), 2011, access via Google Scholar / ghosh]

The roadway improvements sections have been prepared jointly by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA... replacement projects have been included in the analysis presented in this Final EIS.
=Negative= 
==Coercion== 
===1NC=== 
**The funding for the aff is coercively obtained -- the government uses its influence and strength to force citizens to finance transportation infrastructure**
**Rothbard 2** (Dean of the Austrain School of Economics, Murray N., "The Nature of the State", excerpted from //The Ethics of Liberty// ch. 22-25, 2002, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html]] // EM)

The State indeed performs many important and necessary functions...he will be arrested or shot if he should continue to resist.
**Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance is key**
**Petro 74** (Sylvester, Professor of Law @ New York University, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p.48)

However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway...emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.
**Each new step of coercion must be resisted - it moves us one step further along the road of oppression**
**Browne 1995** (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for DownsizeDC.org, //Why Government Doesn't Work//, p. 65-66)
Escalation Each increase in coercion is easier to justify...reformers who would use force only to build a better world.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]