[[toc]]
For the record, my name is Michael Olesberg. Yes, the title of this page is incorrect.
Anyways, email me at 1a.olesberg@gmail.com for any questions.

=Affirmative= 
=University of Michigan= 
==Plan Text== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially invest in port dredging and infrastructure investment.
We reserve the right to clarify…

==Advantage 1== 
===Contention 1 is trade=== 
Ports fail post Panama expansion
Army Corps of Engineers 2012
(“U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization Strategy Options for the Future”, 4-2, http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Options_for_the_Future_Working_Draft_v1_2012_Apr_01.pdf, DOA: 7-12-12)

The health of the U.S. economy depends …
… take advantage of larger vessels that begin to service their trade.



Maritime infrastructure key to the overall economy—increases over all exports – that’s
Juda and Burroughs 04 -- professors in the Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island + Professor, Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island, Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (Lawrence and Richard, "Dredging Navigational Channels in a Changing Scientific and Regulatory Environment," Journal of maritime Law & Commerce, Vol. 34, No. 2, April, 2004 http://www.uritc.org/media/finalreportspdf/536151.pdf)

Historically, transportation by vessels operating on rivers and oceans…
…dependence on the maritime transportation system.


Exports make growth sustainable – prevents investment bubbles and collapses – that’s
Istrate et al, 10 -- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf) // NK

Exports Could Contribute to the Rebalancing of the U.S. Economy…
…can be part of the solution to many long-standing difficulties.


Trade solves war
McDonald ‘4 [Patrick J, works with Department of Governmnet, University of Texas at Austin, 2004 “Peace through Trade or Free Trade?” Journal of Conflict Resolution, 48; 547, http://jcr.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/48/4/547.pdf ]

More broadly, this study argues that a neglected version…
…a negotiated compromise short of war during a crisis (e.g., Morrow 1999; Gartzke, Li, and Boehmer 2001).


Case solves economy- 99% trade and jobs
Nagle ‘12, GMU economics masters, 2012
(Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation”, 5-7, http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf, DOA: 7-12-12)

For centuries seaports have been…
…trade growth, population growth, increasing vessel size, etc.

Reliable ports are key to sustainable exports solving econ growth - that’s
Calhoun ‘11, Waterways Council Inc. chairman, 2011
(Rick, “Dredging for Prosperity”, Marine Log, August, proquest)

Just like the nation itself, our maritime industry is…
…in the future of our inland waterways transportation system.

This would force light loading – that breaks the US shipping industry
Weakley 08 --President of the Lake Carriers' Association (James H. I., Testimony Before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, April 30, 2008, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html) CS

The Importance of Dredging Our ports and harbors…
…is required to set aside seats with no passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies.

Leads to extinction
Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 [Aaron, is a Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel is the Senior Editor of Commentary and a Visiting Scholar at Witherspoon Institute, Wall Street Journal “The Dangers of a Diminished America” October 28th 2008 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]

Then there are the dolorous consequences…
…from internal travails with external adventures.


==Advantage 2== 
===Contention 2 is heg=== 
Allocating HMT funds upgrades ports-resolves competitiveness crisis – that’s
Hackbarth ‘12, Free Enterprise, 2012
(Sean, “Let’s Not Forget to Modernize Seaports”, 4-6, http://www.freeenterprise.com/infrastructure/let%E2%80%99s-not-forget-modernize-seaports, DOA: 7-13-12)

When I say “infrastructure” roads, bridges, and…
…"six ports deep enough to handle the new larger ships that will pass" through the canal.

Robust maritime industry key to military readiness– that’s
AMP 2012
(American Maritime Partnership, “U.S. TRANSCOM General Says Domestic Maritime Industry is "Fourth Arm of Defense”, 5-22, http://www.americanmaritimepartnership.com/news/2012/052212%20NMD.html, DOA: 7-13-13)

U.S. TRANSCOM Commanding General William Fraser III today said…
…transported 90 percent of all military cargoes moved to Afghanistan and Iraq.

Readiness key to deterring global wars – that’s
Spencer 2k, Policy Analyst at Heritage, 9/15/ 2000,
[Jack, Heritage Backgrounder #1394] (PDCL1741)

Military readiness is vital because…
…thereby preserving peace.


Perception of weakness causes transition wars
Friedberg 2011 (July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)

THE UNITED States and the People’s Republic of China….
…have so often been marked by war.

Great power war
Barnett, 11 [Thomas P.M. Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]

Events in Libya are a further reminder...
…that should make you nervous.

Heg prevents war
Kagan 11 Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19)

The looming battle over the defense budget could…
…must “share the pain,” we weaken ourselves even further.

==Solvency== 
===Contention 3 is solvency=== 

Ports are federal jurisdiction – only fed investment can solve very important part of our economy
AAPA, 11 - AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP//

//Over time these constitutional responsibilities…//
//…jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.//

//Federal regulations prevent other actors from solving – only federal action can solve//
//Anderson, 11 –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (A. Paul, “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf)//MM

With increasingly larger ships calling the East Coast, it is now…
…approving and funding critical infrastructure projects is fundamentally broken.

Federal Regulations and lack of funding mean only USFG can solve
Nagle, 2012- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM

First, the funding level of the Corps of Engineers’ new…
…so that we can meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.



=Negative=