[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==**Plan: The United States Congress should pass the Realize America’s Maritime Promise Act.**== 
===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1: Trade</span>=== 

====Panama and Suez Canal expansions mean that port dredging is key to handling larger ships==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Ph.D. founder and president of Martin Associates, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (John C., conducted more than 500 port economic, planning, and marketing studies for seaports, terminal operators, and ocean carriers in the United States, Asia, Europe, and South America “Sailing into the New Century”, //Industry Today//, Volume 13, Issue 2, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F343)//MM|http://industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F343)]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With the deployment…</span> the global economy.

====Current lack of funding results from misappropriation of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IAM Journal, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (IAM Journal for Fighting Machinists, “Modernize Our Nation’s Ports and Waterways, Support the RAMP Act,” Volume 17, No. 5, May, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.goiam.org/images/articles/news/iam-journal/recent-journals/may/iamjournal_may2012.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The IAM is supporting…</span> RAMP Act is long overdue.”

====That results in inadequate channel depths==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Beacon, 2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Maritime Exchange newspaper services serving Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, “Ramping up RAMP”, Maritime Exchange, Winter, Vol. 21, No. 4, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.maritimedelriv.com/Publications/Beacon/issues/Winter2011/Winter_2011_Beacon.pdf)/MM|http://www.maritimedelriv.com/Publications/Beacon/issues/Winter2011/Winter_2011_Beacon.pdf)]]</span>
“As a result… can be changed.

====And light loaded ships eviscerate the shipping industry – the impact is irreversible==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weakley</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, President of the Lake Carriers' Association, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (James H. I., Testimony Before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, April 30, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)</span>
The Importance of Dredging… lose its efficiencies.

====Shipping is key to the economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nagle</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, President and Chief Executive Officer for the American Association of Port Authorities, former Director of International Trade for the National Coal Association and Assistant Secretary for the Coal Exporters Association, previously worked in the Office of International Economic Research at the U.S. Department of Commerce, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation,” May 7, http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf)</span>
For centuries seaports… growth, increasing vessel size, etc.

====Trade deficit wrecks the economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weller</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, and Reidenbach, Special Assistant for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Christian E. and Luke, “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion,” February, http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/issues/2011/02/pdf/high_tech_trade_exec_summ.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States faces… and long-term economic growth//.//</span>

====Studies prove economic crises lead to war==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Jedediah, //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives//, pg. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods… ancillary to those views.

====And the ballooning trade deficit causes protectionism and tit-for-tat retaliation==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hufbauer</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> et al, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Gary, Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, Woan Foong Wong, and Jared Woollacott, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession,” March, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf)</span>
The U.S. unemployment rate…<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> instances of U.S.¶ protectionism.</span>

====And the US must lead on trade – otherwise, protectionism spirals globally==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Panitchpakdi</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>Security General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, **__2004__** (Supachai, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, February 26, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm
The second point is that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">strengthening…</span> but by the absence of rules.

====Protectionism quickly escalates to global war – multiple scenarios==== 
**__Panzer__**, New York Institute of Finance, **__2008__** (Michael, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Continuing calls for curbs…</span> of a new world war.

====Interdependence prevents war==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Director of the Cato Institute Center for Trade Policy Studies, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Daniel, “Peace on Earth? Try Free Trade Among Men,” December 28, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5344]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
As one little-noticed headline… can produce best at home.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 2: LNG</span>=== 

====Panama Canal expansion allows for US export of LNG to Europe==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaton</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, reporter for the //Houston Business Journal//, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact,” Houston Business Journal, May 29, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
Economists at a recent… a game-changer.

====But this requires port dredging==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ebinger</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, et al., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)</span>
The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">successful export …</span> in shipping costs to Asia. 40

====Increasing US LNG exports breaks European dependence on Russia==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ratner</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, specialist in energy policy, et al., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Michael, Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” //Congressional Research Service//, March 13, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span> 27 member-state European …oil-indexed natural gas prices.

====The Russian stranglehold on the European energy market prevents democratic reforms in Central Asia==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baran</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Director and Senior Fellow at the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Zenyo, “EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” //The Washington Quarterly//, Autumn, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The lack of reliable … grip on Europe’s neighbors</span>.

====European energy independence forces Russian rapprochement with the West, while energy dependence splinters Europe and results in conflict==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asmus</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, U.S. diplomat and political analysis, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Ronald D., “Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, Proquest)</span>
This accomplishment was …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">price for their passivity. </span>

====That escalates to nuclear war==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McDermott</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the ‘Risk’ of Nuclear Conflict,” December 6, The Jamestown Foundation, Eurasia Daily Monitor, Vol. 8, Issue 221, http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=38748)</span>
In the current … the victor (See EDM, December 1).

===Anti-Politics=== 
====Moving away from anti-politics prevents extinction==== 
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small</span>__, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, __20____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span>__ (Jonathan, “Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">What will be ... seeks to do just that.</span>


====<span class="underline">Only criticizing from the inside out allows us to not cede politics to the Right</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gitlin</span><span class="underline">, Professor of Journalism and Sociology and Chair of the Ph.D. Program in Communications at Columbia University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span><span class="underline"> (Todd, //The Intellectuals and the Flag//, </span>http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_05.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">So two Manichaeisms ... Its anger is intimate.</span>


====Attempting to work outside the state cedes the political==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gitlin</span><span class="underline">, Professor of Journalism and Sociology and Chair of the Ph.D. Program in Communications at Columbia University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span><span class="underline"> (Todd, //The Intellectuals and the Flag//, </span>http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_05.pdf)
This book assumes ... resistance is its negative pole.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The impact is extinction: refusing traditional politics abandons social responsibility and makes crises inevitable</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boggs</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Professor of Social Studies at National University in Los Angeles, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Carl, “The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America,” //Theory and Society//, Vol. 26, No. 6)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The decline of the public sphere ... vanished from civil society.</span>


====Psychological retreat from politics solves nothing==== 

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boggs</span>__, Professor and Ph.D. in Political Science at National University, Los Angeles, __19____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>__ (Carl, //Theory and Society// 26: 741-780)
Both mall culture ... simply go unchallenged

====Criticism without policy is ineffective==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bérubé</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, directs the Humanities Center at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Michael, “Cultural Criticism and the Politics of Selling Out,” http://www.altx.com/ebr/ebr2/2berube.htm)</span>
<span style="line-height: 24px;">This then has ... movements of public policy</span>

=Negative= 
Past 2NRs:
Sunset CP+Complexity K (kicked alt) NB
Sunset CP+Politics DA
States CP+Politics DA

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]