<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wake**: Isabel was 2A/1N, Simon was 1A/2N</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Georgetown**: Simon was with Daniel Budai (Simon was Double 2s)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bronx**: Simon was the 2A, and 2N for rd 3. Isabel was the 2N for rds 2 and 6 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cap Classic**: Simon was the 2A, and Isabel was the 2N. Simon was Mav for Rd 3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**BCFL 3**: Simon was with Victoria Brown (Simon was Double 2s)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Scranton**: Day 1, Simon was the 2A, Isabel was the 2N. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Day 2 Simon was Double 2s</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**BCFL 4**: Simon was with Aman Aggarwal (Simon was Double 2s)</span>
**Lexington:** Simon was with [[2012-2013 - Marriotts Ridge (MD) - Will Watson & Kevin Zheng|Kevin Zheng]] (Simon was Double 2s)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You can contact us at:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Isabel: lynxstar22@gmail.com.</span>
Simon: simonwzhu[at]gmail[dot]com

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More stuff will be up soon</span>

In the meantime, check out our [[2012-2013 - Atholton (MD) - Novices|Novices]]
or maybe [[2012-2013 - McDonogh (MD)- Viraj Patel & Sahil Shah|the top team in our state]]

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lex</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">will be posted soon</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BCFL 4, Scranton, BCFL 3</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Cap Classic/Bronx aff)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus, Simon and I advocate a substantially increase its investment in racially just transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap Classic Day 2, Octas</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Bronx Aff)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus, Simon and I advocate the United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in racially just transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap Classic Day 1, Bronx</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 1: The Racial Implications of Transportation Policy</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation isn’t neutral but is embedded in discursive and ideological systems – the fetishism of economically productive modes of mobility reflects dominant power structures</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Konrad ’9[2009, Miriam, PhD in sociology from Georgia State University, “Transporting Atlanta”, State Universty of New York Press, Albany, p. 1-2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is astonishing … mode of mobility.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal transportation policy has been pivotal in the segregation and ghettoization of minorities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mandell Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 8</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bekah-, “Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth,” 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289, Lexis Nexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racist federal transportation … arteries and overpasses.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brenman ‘7 [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Three major kinds … and regressive taxes.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The transportation decision-making process ignores minorities and only benefits the wealthy, educated population.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bullard ‘0</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert D.-; TRANSPORTATION EQUITY IN THE 21ST CENTURY: A Newsletter of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University”; Volume 1, Number 1; Spring, 2000; [[http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/|www.ejrc.cau.edu]]; [[http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/atep%20newsletter%20spr00sm.PDF]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Procedural Inequity. Attention … and economic activities.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 2 is Debate</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system in education – exposing it leads to the best form of knowledge production.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mills ‘97[1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">White Supremacy is … political are highlighted.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our dialogical approach is fair and the only way to deconstruct our positions in debate. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Galloway ‘7 [2007, Ryan, Asst Prof and Director of Debate @ Samford, Ryan-former GMU debater; Dinner and Conversation at the Argumentative Table: Reconceptualizing Debate as an Argumentative Dialogue; CONTEMPORARY ARGUMENTATION AND DEBATE; Vol. 28]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As dialogue, the … and ontological potential.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The disconnected objective narration of debate is harmful: Modern epistemic norms are sown with bias towards upper class white males beneath supposed “neutrality”.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stone-Mediatore ’10 [2010, Shari-; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45,; http://phaenex.uwindsor.ca/ojs/leddy/index.php/SSJ/article/view/2851/2371/]</span>





<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For several decades … not academically-oriented.” </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current policy making reflects the assumptions and worldview of the white male power base, ignoring and disadvantaging minority voices.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shaw Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State ‘4</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The methods and … relations of power"(1997a, p. 3).</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impacts of nuclear war only seek to mask the oppression and exploitation of white supremacy and institutionally racist practices.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Omolade City College Center for Worker Education in New York City 1984</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barbara-a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, Summer, p. 12; [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In April, 1979, the … Who will stand up?</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Relying on strict utilitarian calculus justified suicide bombing, the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, continued genocide, and other atrocities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Farer 2008(Tom,former President of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States, is Dean of the Graduate School of International Studies at the University of Denver; "Un-Just War Against Terrorism and the Struggle to Appropriate Human Rights": Human Rights QUarterly, Volume 30, Number 2; MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American leaders who … of human rights.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus Symon and I affirm the resolution through a disaffirmation of the state, that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through an exposition of racism in its institutions.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 3: Racial Justice</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Understanding the intersection between race and place is a prerequisite for analyzing ghettoization and unequal transportation distribution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Squires professor of sociology and public policy and public administration at George Washington University and a member of the board of the National Housing Institute and Kubrin associate professor of sociology at George Washington University and is coeditor of Crime and Society ‘6</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gregory D. and Charis E.-; “Privileged Places: Race, Opportunity and Uneven Development in Urban America” By Gregory D. Squires and Charis E. Kubrin; [[http://nhi.org/online/issues/147/privilegedplaces.html]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When 10-year-old … what and why.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our speech act is key – exposing racism is a prerequisite to affirming racially just transportation policy. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DAVIS prof of History of Consciousness and Feminist Studies @ UC, Santa Cruz2k8</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Angela Y.-former black panther, civil rights activist/scholar; Recognizing Racism in the Era of Neoliberalism, Vice Chancellor’s Oration; [[http://www.abc.net.au/news/opinion/speeches/files/20080318_davis.pdf]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because racism is … life of racism.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Memmi Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against … stakes are irresistible.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crenshaw ‘97 [1997, Carrie, PhD, Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This essay explores … gender and class.</span>

===2AC Framework=== 


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Resolved is to reduce through mental analysis.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Random House Unabridged Dictionary 2006</span>
(http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved)
Resolve<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: 1.To come ...</span> analysis <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(often fol. by into).</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The context of the resolution is determined before the colon</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peck 96</span> __(U of Ottawa; http://www.uottawa.ca/academic/arts/writcent/hypergrammar/colon.html)__
The colon ... introductory<span class="underline"> idea.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Best policy option must include attention to the language that shapes the policy</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Juma 95</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Calestous, Professor of the Practice of International Development @ Harvard University, Policy Research in Sub-Saharan Africa, African Centre for Technology Studies, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www/|http://www]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. ksg. harvard. edu/sed/docs/k4dev/juma_pubadmin1995. pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this...and argumentation (Majone, 1989, p. 1).</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their exclusionary framework is an independent link to our aff. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills ‘97</span>[1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We all understand .</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.. of Western academic philosophers </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bronx Rd 4 and Georgetown</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is The Economy</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No large scale efforts to protect US infrastructure from global climate change—federal funding is critical</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neumann, ’09 [December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The federal government is most heavily involved in funding new and improved infrastructure in the</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">serious, because shovel‐ready is almost certainly not climate‐ready.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, warming isn’t a debate—positive feedbacks and existing emissions mean its inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 [[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate change will destroy every sector of our current infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schwartz, ’11 [Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The transportation planners, designers, and operators of this nation’s transportation systems face many</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">change be more apparent than on the vast transportation network of this country.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That collapses economic growth</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Little, ‘11 [04/05/11, Richard Little is the Director of the Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation—escalates</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harris and Burrows, ‘09 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Broad studies prove our argument</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Royal, ‘10 [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth makes war impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Boudreux, professor of economics, ‘06 [10/20/06, Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We’ll isolate two specific scenarios</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-Climate Aff-1AC-Greenhill Round Robin Rounds 2&3-Scenario 1 is Highways]]Scenario 1 is Highways</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Highways are at risk from climate change impacts – storm surge, flooding, and erosion will cause bottlenecks that exacerbate the pressure on the system</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As in most parts of the nation, roads are the backbone of the transportation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">whether any strength was restored over time (Gaspard et al., 2007).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First highways—they are key to demand, business productivity, manufacturing industry—empirical research proves</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Keane ’11 [Thomas P. Keane is an economist in FHWA's Office of Policy Development. He works both in research relating to the economic impacts of highway infrastructure investment and on the FHWA Congestion Pricing Team in the areas of variable tolling and parking pricing issues. He has been employed by FHWA since November 1990. He has a master's degree in applied economics from the University of Maryland. “The Economic Importance of the National Highway System,” Federal Highway Administration, Initially written in 1996, Updated 4/08/11 [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When transportation decision-makers at the federal, state, and local levels discuss</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">900 full-time, on-site, highway construction jobs nationally.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Highway failure collapses the manufacturing industry—investment independently revitalizes it</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hermann, ’11 [Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector”, pg lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure Investment = A Healthy Economy The job-creation potential of infrastructure investment is</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">to maintain and improve the nation's infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Manufacturing is critical to US defense industrial base</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thompson, ’11 [2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, “Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,”,[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last week, the federal government reported that the U.S. trade deficit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">little evidence that they grasp the urgency of halting America’s decline in manufacturing.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to US deterrence posture</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eaglen and Sayer, ’09 [May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, “Maintaining the Superiority of America’s Defense Industrial Base,” pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Foundation of American Military Strength Since World War II, the United States has</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and Marine to remain adequately prepared for a full spectrum of potential operations.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Credible deterrence solves global nuclear wars.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Paul Robinson, president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” 3/22/2001,[[http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I served as an arms negotiator on the last two agreements before the dissolution of</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">attack with nuclear weapons; but the choice would be in our hands.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-Climate Aff-1AC-Greenhill Round Robin Rounds 2&3-Scenario 2 is Seaports]]Scenario 2 is Seaports</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Storm surge and sea level rise from climate change decimates ports and waterways – they are critical to the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Due to their location, marine facilities are most vulnerable to storm surge and relative</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">costs to system users would be dramatically higher, if not prohibitively higher.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They are key to the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nagle ’11 [12/2011, Kurt Nagle is the president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” Industry Today vol. 14, no. 3,[[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It seems the United States willingly allows infrastructure to crumble as other countries – particularly</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">secure alternative for cargo while offering significant energy savings and traffic congestion relief.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And port infrastructure is the vital internal link for US agriculture competitiveness – freight movement and exports</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Khachatryan and Casavant ’11 [7/19/11 Hayk Khachatryan is a Research Associate and Director. Ken Casavant is the Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity “THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE,”[[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage to international markets has</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PNW) economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to global food production</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stulp, ’09 [3/20/2009, John Stulp is an agriculture commissioner in Colorado, “America’s economy needs farmers,” [[http://www.journal-advocate.com/news/2009/mar/20/americas-economy-needs-farmers]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While farmers and ranchers constitute less than 2 percent of our population, they feed</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">continue to undergird the economy with products that touch every American every day.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These conflicts will escalate – compromise is simply impossible in a world of resource shortage</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vatkiotis 08-- Asia regional director for the Geneva-based Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, Michael, 05/28, New Straits Times, “A hungry world tests skills of peacemakers,” Lexis,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE food price crisis is threatening to plunge millions back into poverty and if not</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">affected countries solutions must be found that address both elite and popular grievances.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Outweighs—greatest security threat</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Avery 2003 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dennis T., 5/30, - Director of the Hudson Institute's Center for Global Food Issues, “Why the World Used to Have More Wars,” Hudson Institute, [[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=2876]].)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Human prehistory was dominated by wars—usually over critical resources such as hunting grounds</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">-yield farming, literally is the peace-maker of the world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Food crises escalate</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calvin, ‘02 (William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons,[[http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields will</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-Climate Aff-1AC-Greenhill Round Robin Rounds 2&3-Plan]]Plan</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its climate resiliency investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-Climate Aff-1AC-Greenhill Round Robin Rounds 2&3-Contention 2 is Solvency]]Contention 2 is Solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action is key—holdings, domestic and international modeling, technical and fiscal support, and jurisdictional coordination</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smith, ’10 [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”,[[http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The federal government has a critical role to play in an effective and coordinated approach</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and Budget (OMB) to ensure the success of¶ interagency efforts.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congestion is causing a drag on the economy – urbanization, regulations, state budget crisis makes economic growth unsustainable. Creating efficient transportation infrastructure is THE prerequisite to sustainable growth</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Keeling and Mooney, ‘11 [2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for Business Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth” [[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">High unemployment, languid economic growth and growing urbanization make transport’s role in driving growth</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">via the goods and services they purchase and those employed to provide them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Double dip recession is coming next year – only domestic growth efforts solve – none of their resiliency or alt cause claims apply.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sivy, ‘8/28 [August 28, 2012, Michael Sivy is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition. Sivy has appeared as a stock-market commentator on television, including the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. In addition, he has been heard on NPR's All Things Considered, PRI's Marketplace and on the CBS Radio network. “Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?”, http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In addition to a host of warnings, last Wednesday’s Congressional Budget Office report did</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">is hardly likely to do any better as storm clouds start rolling in.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Decline leads to global nuclear wars</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barnhizer 6 — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The scale of social needs, including the need for expanded productive activity, has</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">social justice while avoiding and mitigating the most destructive consequences of our behavior.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congestion reduction measures are a pre requisite to growth and a positive stimulus – accessibility is critical for productivity</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hartgen and Fields ‘9 [David T. Hartgen, Ph.D., P.E. is Emeritus Professor of Transportation Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The author of more than 300 studies on transportation policy and planning, he established UNC Charlotte’s Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in 1989 and now conducts research in transportation policy and planning. M. Gregory Fields is a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte pursuing a Ph.D. in georgraphy and urban-regional analysis. He earned his B.S. from the U.S. Military Academy and M.A. from Webster University in St. Louis and UNC Charlotte. “Gridlock and Growth: The Effect of Traffic Congestion on Regional Economic Performance,” Reason Foundation 2009 [[http://www.hartgengroup.net/Projects/National/USA/cong_region_performance/2009-06-22_Final_Summary_PS371.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Regional road networks were provided by each region’s respective planning agency. Using points corresponding</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">people come to malls and universities from work sites, not from home.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congestion destroys business productivity, trucking industry, time usage, and freight – ALL are key to growth and the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cambridge Systematics ‘2 [“The Benefits of Reducing Congestion: NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment,” January 2002 [[http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congestion in metropolitan areas affects business transportation costs and productivity, and hence the “</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in congested conditions more than twice as highly as overall travel time savings.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Competitiveness</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US is behind now – devolution to the states and private sector has damped competitiveness – only a national ITS policy can solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Policy factors appear to be much more important than non-policy factors in explaining</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">these countries to articulate clear and concise national ambitions and objectives towards ITS.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Multiple internal links</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First Jobs</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Productivity and Innovation are key to and economic competitiveness and hegemony.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dabney ’10 [April 25th, 2010, Michael, Writer for the Epoch Times, The Epoch Times, U.S. Competitive Edge in Jeopardy: The U.S. ponders its declining leadership in innovation as Asia and Europe gain steam, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/technology/us-competitive-edge-in-jeopardy-34041.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In his seminal 2002 best-seller “The Creative Class,” author Richard Florida</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">over the last decade, while China was rated first in this category.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS deployment creates hundreds of thousands of small business jobs and high tech jobs</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Belcher, ‘9 (December 4, 2009 Scott Belcher, CEO and President, Intelligent Transportation Society of America, represents several hundred member organizations including public agencies, private industry leaders, and academic institutions involved in the research, development, and deployment of intelligent transportation systems that improve safety, increase mobility, and sustain the environment, “Congress: Invest in Intelligent Transportation Systems to create jobs”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/70623-congress-invest-in-intelligent-transportation-systems-to-create-jobs]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Congressional leaders work to craft a jobs package that will address our nation’s alarming</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and emissions, improving system performance and creating more livable, sustainable communities.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competitiveness prevents great power war – collapse kills hegemony</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Baru, ‘9 [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hence, economic policies and performance do have strategic consequences. In the modern era</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">they will do so once again in today's America remains to be seen.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony solves all war—deterrence and cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zhang and Shi ‘11­– both MA candidates at Columbia University, researcher at Carnegie and consultant for the World Bank (January 22, 2011, Yuhan Zhang, and Lin Shi, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: the US will go the way of all great</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No risk of their heg bad turns---US engagement and reintervention are inevitable---it’s only a question of making it effective---the plan prevents failed engagement that triggers their turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kagan, ‘11 (Robert, contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. “The Price of Power”. The Weekly Standard, Jan 24, 2011, Vol. 16, No. 18. [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In theory, the United States could refrain from intervening abroad. But, in</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in the kind of international system that American power has built and defended.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Social science proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war—no peaceful transition</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wohlforth 09 – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Its Investment in Intelligent Transportation Systems Infrastructure In the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS solves – multiple technologies contribute to achieving free flow and reducing congestion</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS improve the performance of a country’s transportation network by maximizing the capacity of existing</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">example, state Departments of Transportation) more accountable for providing real results.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Military</span>=== 
====1NC==== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Preexisting</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC</span>==== 
Rowland (Limits good)

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Substantial</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Telecommunications</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure includes roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chapman ’11 [September 29th, 2011, Chapman and Cutler LLP, Attorneys at Law within Finance“The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eligibility for financial assistance must be […]for public and commercial buildings</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Telecommunications are distinct from transportation infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Peters ’7 [October 25th, 2007, Mary, Secretary of Transportation Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 [[http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because transportation system users do […]telecommunications, electricity, pipelines, and railroads.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vehicles</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vehicles are part of our transportation system, not our transportation infrastructure</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Amosweb ‘12 [2012, “Taking A Ride On TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE” A pedestrian’s guide to the economy,[[http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=pdg&c=dsp&k=47]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We usually think about transportation in terms […], and boats need docks and ports.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CounterPlan</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Asian Counter Advocacy</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carbon Tax CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Equity CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RnD Tax Credit</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A permanent tax credit solves both economy and competitiveness - incentivizes innovation and increases jobs and GDP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AIA '10 [Aerospace Industries Association, “Research and Development Tax Credit,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/RandDpaper.pdf]], May]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In short, a preponderance of AND in the credit rates would result in the creation of 162,000 jobs in the short-run.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Puentes ’11 [2011, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">III. A New State Approach An [...]development programs and commissions.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantage</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections (Wake)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*Insert Uq*</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*Insert Link*</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ohio is CRITICAL for national election of both candidates – highest percentage its tipping-point state</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Silver 8/30 – NYT Political Blogger, Leading Polling Statistician</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nate, “Aug. 29: So Much Depends Upon Ohio”, August 30, 2012, 3:54 AM153 Comments[[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/aug-29-so-much-depends-upon-ohio/]], Access 8/30/12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A one-point lead isn’t much... to showcase himself has started.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If Romney wins the presidential election, he will go to war with Iran.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bender 8/27 [Bryan. August 27, 2012. ‘Mitt Romney strikes hard line on Iran.’ Boston.com articles. Bender earned undergraduate degrees in Political Science and English Writing from the University of Pittsburgh. [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-03-07/politics/31125697_1_nuclear-weapon-mitt-romney-nuclear-facilities/2]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON _ Mitt [[#|Romney]] on Tuesday... weapon are unlikely to work. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US attack on Iran causes nuclear war and extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dennis Ray Morgan 9, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aggression in the Middle East along... of all of human civilization</span>

===Inflation DA=== 
====1NC==== 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DnG K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is insufficient to discuss transportation infrastructure only at the macro level</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze and Guattari ‘80 [A Thousand Plateaus 214-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is not … personal and collective.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Desire manifests itself at the local level – understanding macro level policies is a secondary consideration</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ballantyne ‘7 [Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 27-28]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So these habits … an inaccurate aspect.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is rhizomatic politics</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conley ‘6 [Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In their dialogues … identity is undone.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DR. CRENSHAW Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This analysis of ... mask its existence.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, … someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strats</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 vs. Westminster OG (HSR - econ, heg, warming) -- Will Caplan</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T Transportation Infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carbon Tax CP (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (Obama Good) (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 vs. Berkeley Prep (NIB - growth, econ analysis)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T Transportation Infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RnD Tax Credit CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 5 vs. MBA BT (HSR - econ, air pollution)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T Transportation Infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RnD Tax Credit CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Georgetown (Simon Zhu with Daniel Budai)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 1 vs. New Trier PD (Carbon Pipelines - Warming) -- Azhar Unwala</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T Pipelines</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (Same Ohio Scenario) (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 4 vs. Westminster OG (HSR - Econ, Warming, Resource Wars)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T Preexisting</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC/1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RnD Tax Credit CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 5 vs. Georgetown Day School (Disabilities)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DnG K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bronx</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 vs. Baltimore Polytech ES (Bataille-cycles) -- Buse</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework (2NC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 vs. Newark Science BM (Free mass transit - neolib) -- Shane Stafford</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DnG (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 6 vs. Greenhill DJ (Gas Tax) -- Willy Xiao</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Gas Tax (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (2NC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adv. CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sextodecimofinals vs. Lexington SL (Guam) -- Buse, Neustadt</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T (i don't remember)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan Specific Deterrence Adv. CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg bad (1NR)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap Classic</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 vs. River Hill SS (Deconstruction) -- Kevin Whitley</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The" PIC (1NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Asian Counteradvocacy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inflation DA</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 3 vs. BCC GM (Free mass transit - neolib)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DnG K (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC) (2NR)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 5 vs. St Ignatius (ITS) -- Githens</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Telecommunications (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RnD CP (2NC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elims</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We were aff the rest of the tournament</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BCFL 3 (Simon Zhu with Victoria Brown)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rd 2 vs. BCC EM (Free mass transit - neolib) -- Rich McDonough</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness K (1NR) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DnG K (2NC) (2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Stuff (2NC) (2NR)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scranton</span>=== 
====Rd 1 vs. Stuyvesant CH (JDDSP - Heg, Econ) -- Alberto Acosta==== 
T Military
T Substantial (1NR)
Whiteness K (2NC)
RnD CP (1NR) (2NR)
Heg Bad (1NR) (2NR)
Other case stuff (1NR)

====Rd 4 vs. E.L. Meyers CL (Keystone Pipeline - Econ, BioD, Oil Dependence) -- Andrew Geathers==== 
T Pipelines
T Substantial
Whiteness K (2NC/1NR) (2NR)
Equity Assessment CP w/ Racism NB (1NR)
Case Stuff (1NR)

====Rd 5 vs. Stuyvesant CL (Psychoanalysis, consumerism, utility maximization) -- Kevin Cenac==== 
FW (1NR)
Whiteness K (2NC) (2NR)
DnG (2NC) (2NR)
Case stuff (2NC)

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BCFL 4</span>=== 
====Rd 2 vs. BCC (Free mass transit - neolib) -- Myers==== 
T Pre-existing (2NC) (2NR)
Whiteness K (2NC)
States CP w/ Buy America NB (1NR) (2NR)
Other case stuff (2NC)

====Rd 3 vs. McDonogh (Racially just transportation infrastructure - Racism, Warming) -- Neustadt==== 
T Pre-Existing (2NC)
T Vagueness (2NC) (2NR)
DnG K (1NR)
State Bad K (2NC)
Case Stuff (2NC) (2NR)

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lexington</span>=== 
====Rd 2 vs. River Hill DD (Courts Aff) -- Ewald==== 
T Pre-existing (2NC)
T Vagueness (2NC) (2NR)
Spectacular Blackness
Politics DA (Immigration) (1NR)
Equity CP

====Rd 4 vs. Classical (Reject the Rez) -- Suo==== 
Framework (1NR)
Spectacular Blackness (2NC) (2NR)
Knowledge Production K (2NC)
Case stuff (2NC) (2NR)

====Rd 5 vs. Beacon (John Henry) -- Emerson==== 
Framework (1NR)
Spectacular Blackness (2NC) (2NR)
Knowledge Production K (2NC) (2NR)
Case stuff (2NC) (2NR)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>