[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive; font-size: 110%;">I</span>nfórmatióñ= 
Affirmative/Negative Cites-- gsinger14@brophybroncos.org
Complaints-- mwaxman14@brophybroncos.org

Too nervous/we don't respond-- zaneclarkewaxman@gmail.com
AND, if he doesn't respond-- puja.gubbi@gmail.com

(If you're just looking for pictures of Sam Wolff-- [[@debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Brophy College Prep (AZ) - Justin Hegyi and Sam Wolff|Click here]] or [[@http://www.flickr.com/photos/swolff13/|Here]])
=Affirmative= 
==1AC SWSDIT (AZ)== 
===1AC Trade=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The Panama Canal expansion drastically alters maritime trade—new harbor deepening is key to trade competitiveness</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Bridges 2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Jerry A,Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ports are</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> dynamic, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">vibrant centers of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> trade and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">commerce</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, but what is most </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">infrastructure, including landside and waterside access to seaports. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">We cannot wait</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">And funding is insufficient—federal and certain investment is key to dredging</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Szakonyi 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark, Associate Director of the Journal of Commerce, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">"This is a significant development. It wasn't so long ago that (the </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">deepening expenses themselves reflects just how little optimism there is for federal help.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Infrastructure is key—a strong supply chain boosts US exports and US competitiveness—companies will simply invest elsewhere without it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Lamb-Hale 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nicole Y., Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce , “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S> Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, [[http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AMERICA’S FREIGHT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN COMPETITIVENESS. As sourcing and product delivery operations span </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">systems, and more – determines in part the attractiveness of a location. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Further dredging is necessary</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AAPA 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (American Association of Port Authorities, “Maintaining and Deepening our Maritime Highways” November 2010, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Awareness/HMT%20Fact%20Sheet_12%2028%2010.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seaports serve as a critical gateway</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> to domestic and international trade, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">connecting</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> large and </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">is also carefully managed to ensure contaminated sediments are contained and not harmful.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">A stable funding stream is key to trade leadership—solves international stability</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Kiefer et al 2000</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jack, principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Indirect benefits of Corps projects include gains associated with international trade.Historical expenditures for </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">trade are widespread and are not limited to a handful of coastal states.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The impact is great power wars</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">PANITCHPAKDI ‘4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, 2/26/2004, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. [[http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The second point is that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">strengthening the world trading system is essential to America's wider</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">constrained, not by multilateral rules, but by the absence of rules.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, dredging the lower Mississippi is key to export-based growth, but more funding is needed </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Calhoun 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick, President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Throughout this country's great history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the federal government's role is in part to ensure </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of our ports and waterways in keeping America strong</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and keep her moving.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Increasing exports makes the economy sustainable and solves the trade deficit—absent this the recovery will fail even with increased gdp</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Istrate et al 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Emilia, Senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]] ) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Exports Could Contribute to the Rebalancing of the U.S. Economy and a </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">of the U.S. economy and its distance from trading partners. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Trade deficit kills the economy </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Weller et. al. 2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian, Dr. Christian E. Weller is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Boston. His area of expertise includes retirement income security, macroeconomics, money and banking, and international finance. He is also a research scholar at the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Political Economy Research Institute and an institute fellow at the University of Massachusetts Boston’s Gerontology Institute. Prior to joining the Center, he was on the research staff at the Economic Policy Institute, where he remains a research associate. “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html]]) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States faces enormous economic obstacles in the immediate future as it recovers from </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">of any serious strategy to produce </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">sustained</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">long-term</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> economic growth</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">And, economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">periods of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic decline</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> may </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">increase</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the likelihood of external</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">conflict</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Economic growth solves war—strengthens institutions and solves escalation </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Strauss-Kahn 2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dominique, Former Professor of Economics at the Paris Institute for Political Studies, Managing Director, International Monetary Fund, “Economic Stability, Economic Cooperation, and Peace—The Role of the IMF”, [[http://www.imf.org/external/np/speeches/2009/092309.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">As I noted, the crisis is not over. Indeed, its human and </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">50 percent chance of returning to violence</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> partly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">because of weakened institutions. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Barnhizer 6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Georgetown International Environmental Law Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The scale of social needs, including the need for expanded </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">productive activity</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, has </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">social justice while avoiding and mitigating the most destructive consequences of our behavior</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Restoring the trade balance solves a global wave of protectionism </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Hufbauer et. al. 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary, Former Senior Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations, Author of multiple books on international trade, Peterson Institute for International Economics, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession”, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. unemployment rate more than doubled</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> between the onset of the </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">an easy pass on</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">future new instances of U.S.</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">protectionism</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">8</span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Snowball protectionism causes nuclear war </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Panzner 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> finance and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">trade will inspire the U</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>
===1AC LNG=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">T</span>he plan is key to increase LNG exports
**Ebinger et al. 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, p. 15, Brookings, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)//GP//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shipping Capacity The ... shipping costs to Asia. 40</span>//

//Panama expansion means unique opportunities for LNG exports to Europe//
//**__Eaton, 2012__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – reporter for the Houston Business Journal (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact “, Houston Business Journal, May 29 2012, http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html) </span>// MGD

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economists at a recent ... necessarily be a game-changer.</span>

Increasing US LNG exports breaks European dependence on Russia
**Ratner et al, 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">specialist in energy policy, other authors include ***Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs,** *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and ***Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs (Michael, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf)//AM//**</span>

**//__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 27 member-state ... oil-indexed natural gas prices.</span>//**

**//Russian monopoly destroys security and pro-democracy efforts in Eurasia//**
//Baran, 7 - **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior fellow and director of the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C.</span>** (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zenyo, “ EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY AUTUMN 2007, http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf)</span>**//

//**__The lack of reliable and ...__ __Caucasus would increase.__**//

//**That causes Eurasian instability**//
//Asmus, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Executive Director of the Transatlantic Center at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, in Brussels, From 1997 to 2000, he served as U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs (Ronald, “ Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs. New York: Jan/Feb 2008. http://www.jstor.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/stable/pdfplus/20020270.pdf?acceptTC=true)</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IN THE early 1990S, ... </span>** __autocratic, nationalist Russia is on the rise.__//

//**Nuclear War**//
//Mcdermott 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, The Jamestown Foundation, Washington DC, Senior International Research Fellow for the Foreign Military Studies Office (FMSO), Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and Affiliated Senior Analyst, Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen. McDermott is on the editorial board of Central Asia and the Caucasus and the scientific board of the Journal of Power Institutions in Post-Soviet Societies. He recently wrote The Reform of Russia’s Conventional Armed Forces: Problems, Challenges and Policy Implications (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the “Risk” of Nuclear Conflict”, 12/6/11, The Jamestown Foundation, http://www.jamestown.org/details/?tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BshowUid%5D=140&tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BbackPid%5D=60&no_cache=1)</span>**//**GP**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the current election season the ... </span>__would wish__** __to chew** on.__

==__1AC Meadows__== 



===1AC Snake River Ecosystem=== 

And---the Snake River has become a death trap for Salmon---juvenile smolts on their journey to the Pacific are shredded in turbines or overstressed
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Budy et al 2</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)</span>
The Impounded River… delayed hydrosystem mortality.
=== === 
And, the most comprehensive statistical and scientific evidence links salmon mortality to the hydrosystem---breaching the dams is critical
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Budy et al 2</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)</span>
Abstract.—The numbers … delayed hydrosystem mortality.
And---the dams are eviscerating the social fabric of the Columbia Basin---costs are downplayed and benefits are overstated---debates on removal must focus on DATA and STATISTICS
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hawley 11</span>(Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities (pp. 7-12). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition.
Dam-removal advocates … be accomplished with water.

137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds and land animals
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">S</span>ave <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">O</span>ur <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">W</span>ild <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">S</span>almon<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">, environmental advocacy group, </span>3/6/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2009</span> (“Why Restore Wild Salmon?”, Save Our Wild Salmon,
[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]])
Salmon and steelhead … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the Pacific Northwest</span>.
And---Salmon predate humans in the pacific northwest by millennia---we must recalibrate our decision-making away from calculated exploitation of nature toward appreciation of balance and beauty
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lichatowich 1</span> (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB),Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis, pp 1-7, google books)
In earlier times, … high-quality environment for people?
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Our relationship to salmon demonstrates our fundamental ecological assumptions</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lichatowich 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB),Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis, pp 7-8, google books)</span>
Some people believe … the point of crisis.

This debate can democratize dam removal---citizens must challenge money-laced politics
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hawley 11</span> (Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities (pp. 67-70). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition.
In addition to this kind of … and ears on the water.

We must advocate dam removal in the face of political opposition
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bryant 11</span> (Levi, Morton on Incrementalism , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/) “[Institutional power]” added
Well no, this is not what … There’s never an excuse for activist punching.

===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17px;">The United States federal government should remove the following federally owned dams: Ice Harbor, Little Goose, Lower Monumental, and Lower Granite.</span>**

===1AC Decision Calculus=== 
obsession with time-frame and “try or die” scenarios paves over ongoing ecological degradation
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nixon 10</span> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)
When Lawrence Summers, … ongoing, belated casualties.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">You should be highly skeptical of apocalyptic doomsaying</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gross and Gilles 12</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp123---125)</span>
Flip through the … trends like global warming.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Catastrophe is a political device to silence the salmon</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bryant 11</span> (Levi, Prof of Philosophy at Collins College, july 26, The Scandal of Political Realism, [[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/26/the-scandal-of-political-realism/]]) *[is] added
It’s no wonder that realism … those that currently reign.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Confronting anthropocentrism in pedagogical circles is vitally important</span>**
**Bell and Russel 2k** (Anne C. Bell, department of education, York University, Canada, and Constance L. Russel, Associate Professor, Faculty of Education, Lakehead University, Co-Editor, Canadian Journal of Environmental Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn,” CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 25, 3 (2000):188–203, http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf)


For this reason, the various …anthropocentrism passes unchallenged.1

===Glenbrooks Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should create a waterway by removing the following federally owned dams: Lower Granite, Little Goose, Ice Harbor, and Lower Monumental

===New card at Desert Ridge=== 
**Rejecting anthro is a d-rule**
<span class="Underline">**Scarfe ‘8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adam, Ph.D., M.Ed. Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies, California State University, Bakersfield, “Overcoming Anthropocentric Humanism and Radical Anti-Humanism: Contours of the Constructive Postmodernist Environmental Epistemology,” Process Studies Supplement, Vol. 12, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In outlining some ... a future work. </span>

===2AC AT T-not TI=== 
**We meet---their interpretation includes waterways---dam removal creates a free flowing river that allows boating**
**CNN 1999**
([[http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE]])

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The resolution is … than in manmade form. </span>[Bell = Scott Bell, program coordinator of conservation and public policy for the American Canoe Association]

**We meet—the plan is legislatively a water way project—they get all of their ground because it would go through water way congressional procedure removal allows boating and kayaking**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Garrity</span>**, Washington State Conservation Director @ American Rivers, the leading organization working to protect and restore the nation’s rivers and streams, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">No Date</span> Given
(Michael, [[http://act.americanrivers.org/site/DocServer/snake_econ_factsheet_06-05.pdf?docID=588]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">RECREATION AND TOURISM … $310.5 million per year.</span>

**That’s the core of the topic**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stevens</span>**, organizer for EcoOdyssey, a promotional campaign for alternate transportation, 4/26/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2011</span>
(Matthew, “Frequently Asked Questions,” [[http://www.ecoodyssey.info/Press/Frequently%20Asked%20Questions.pdf]])

__Ecotourism that utilizes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … the ecotourist experience.</span>

**And, you have to remove something to create a waterway, just like dredging affs remove soil, we remove dams**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bowman 2002</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Margaret Bowman is Senior Director for Dams Programs for American Rivers, August 2002, “Legal Perspectives </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on Dam Removal”, Kenyon BioScience Journal Vol. 52 No. 8, http://biology.kenyon.edu/courses/envs461/02%2028%20BOWMAN_MARGARET_B%20dam%20removal.pdf)phol</span>

Clean Water Act section … (US Code, title 33, sec. 1344).


**US Code Includes the snake river**
**Restani 2** (Jane, Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, JD @ UC-Davis, Aug 21, Case No. 95-03-00277-S, Thomson Multimedia, Plaintiff V United States, Defendant, [[http://www.cit.uscourts.gov/SlipOpinions/Slip_op02/02-91.pdf]])
33 U.S.C. § 1804 identifies … the (27) Tennessee-<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Tombigbee Waterway.</span>

**However, 48 miles of the river is excluded---**
**Restani 2** (Jane, Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, JD @ UC-Davis, Aug 21, Case No. 95-03-00277-S, Thomson Multimedia, Plaintiff V United States, Defendant, http://www.cit.uscourts.gov/SlipOpinions/Slip_op02/02-91.pdf)

Thomson next challenges … fails for several reasons.

**And---that’s a huge chunk of the Snake, we turn that into free flowing waterway—we’ll insert an image into the debate**
<span style="background-color: #000000; color: #ffffff;">http://www.bluefish.org/mapofdams.gif</span>



**And---IW funding deals with dams**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Restani 2</span>** (Jane, Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, JD @ UC-Davis, Aug 21, Case No. 95-03-00277-S, Thomson Multimedia, Plaintiff V United States, Defendant, [[http://www.cit.uscourts.gov/SlipOpinions/Slip_op02/02-91.pdf]])
Thomson next challenges … advantage for certain ports.
**The court agrees**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NPCC No Date</span>** (Northwest Power and Conservation Council, think tank dedicated to water issueso n the Columbia and snake, “Hells Canyon Dam,” http://www.nwcouncil.org/history/HellsCanyon.asp)
After a lengthy review … desirability of its demise.”

**And--- counter-interpretation—we should evaluate human and non-human transportation infrastructure we meet---removal creates thousands of miles of inland waterways for salmon and steelhead---the assumption that the topic only includes human infrastructure establishes anthropocentric dominance within debate pedagogy---that’s Bell and Russel---rivers are fundamental transportation infrastructure for Northwest Salmon**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baldwin ‘6</span>**
Jeff Baldwin. Professor of Geography at Sonoma State. Autumn 2006. “The Culture of Nature Through Mississippian Geographies”. __Ethics & the Environment__. Pages 24-25.

Individuals, populations, and multi-species … <span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Canyon, to name just a few.</span>


==1AC Stanford== 
===1AC Ableism=== 
**As debaters on this year’s resolution we are confronted with our nation’s failing transportation infrastructure. Unfortunately, our crumbling system of roads is deeply embedded within a system that excludes people who are constructed as disabled.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AAPD 12</span>** (The American Association of People with Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Congress is currently … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> use mass transit. </span>

**Conventional norms in Policy debate would have us respond to this latent ableism by proposing the hypothetical enactment of specific policy action, Instead of waving a magic wand and pretending that our broken government will impose a utopian solution, __vote aff to endorse a politics of mobility which destabilizes ablenormativity as a sociocultural apparatus in order to affirm the possibility of non-ableist transportation infrastructure investment by the federal government__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Imrie 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (Rob, University of London Geography Professor , January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement [[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]] pg. 1652)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Abstract. In this … corporate-sector responsibilities.</span>

**And---instead of treating disability as a __negative problem__ to be __cured by policy reform__, our __scholarship__ must deconstruct the assumed normality and perfectibility of the body. Voting aff acknowledges the the need to __accept the diversity of life worlds__**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Campbell 9</span>** (Fiona Kumari, Prof at Griffith Law School in Australia, Convenor of the Australasia’s largest postgraduate disability studies program in the School of Human Services & Social Work at Griffith, //Contours of Ableism: The Production of Disability and Abledness//, pp 3-6)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">My approach is three … considered in more detail.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, the fight against oppression must destabilize Ableism---the naturalization of social inferiority as biological difference is the psychological primer for exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Siebers 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Tobin, University of Michigan, Professor of Literary and Cultural Criticism, “The Aesthetics of Human Disqualification”, Oct 28, Lecture, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCoQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdisabilities.temple.edu%2Fmedia%2Fds%2Flecture20091028siebersAesthetics_FULL.doc&ei=LWz4T6jyN8bHqAHLkY2LCQ&usg=AFQjCNGdkDuSJkRXMHgbXqvuyyeDpldVcQ&sig2=UCGDC4tHbeh2j7-Yce9lsA, accessed 7/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Oppression is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">systematic … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of justifiable human inferiority.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Deconstruction of Ableism requires you to accept vulnerability in the face of death**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Julia **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kristeva, ‘10</span>** (psychoanalyst, and professor at the Institut Universitaire de France. Director of the doctoral program "Langue, littérature, image" at the University of Paris Diderot-Paris 7, she is a tutelary member of the Psychoanalytical Society of Paris and doctor honoris causa of a number of universities where she teaches regularly in the United States, Canada, and Europe, “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, and . . . Vulnerability”, Women's Studies Quarterly. New York: Spring 2010. Vol. 38, Iss. 1/2, Proquest)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Disabilities are multiple<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> the politics of disability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span></span>
===1AC Democracy=== 
**Contention 2 is the Role of the Ballot is to affirm the Model of Debate that cultivates critical democratic reflexivity and social justice---disability debates are incredibly important**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bérubé 2</span>** (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “citizenship and disability,” adapted from a talk given at the 2002 convention of the Arc of the United States (formerly the Association of Retarded Citizens of the United States).
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Over eleven years, then, … worthy of the name.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Our interrogation of ableism can revitalize our broader struggle for ethical democracy to end imperialist warmongering</span>**
**Giroux 11** (Henry A, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department., Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy , truth-out.org/opinion/item/68:left-behind-american-youth-and-the-global-fight-for-democracy
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Within the last few … </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and authoritarian regimes.</span>
==1AC Harvard Round 1== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Welcome to debate 2025 – the topic is, once again, “Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.”</span>//</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 1: We solve everything</span>__**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">scenario one is kindergartners key to US Heg:</span>//</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">State budget crisis forces cuts in technical K-12 education</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leachman et al ‘11</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Michael Leachman – Director of State Fiscal Research with the State Fiscal Policy division of the Center; holds a Ph.D. in sociology from Loyola University Chicago; policy analyst for nine years at the Oregon Center for Public Policy; AND</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">* Nicholas Johnson- graduate degree from Duke University's Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Director of the State Fiscal Project, which works to develop strategies for long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, encourage low-income tax relief, and improve the way states prioritize funding, received the Ian Axford Fellowship in Public Policy, a program financed by the New Zealand government and administered by Fulbright New Zealand. Through this fellowship, he spent six months as an advisor to the New Zealand Treasury and the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development; AND</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">* Erica Williams - M.A. in International Policy the Monterey Institute of International Studies; Policy Analyst with the State Fiscal Project; (Michael, Nicholas Johnson, Erica Williams, “State Budget Cuts in the New Fiscal Year Are Unnecessarily Harmful”, July 28,</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=3550]]</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>//</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Since states spend more ….. </span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that students and their families will have to fill.</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//__<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The budget also cuts state support for technical colleges by about </span>__//</span>**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">$70 million</span>__</span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> over the biennium, or 25 percent, and places a two-year freeze on local property tax levies that allow communities to raise funds for technical colleges.</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">That destroys American primacy</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nas ‘7</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Committee on Prospering in the Global Economy of the 21st Century: An Agenda for American Science and Technology Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy, “RISING ABOVE THE GATHERING STORM Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future”, National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, July,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11463.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">China and India indeed </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…..there is no competition</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">And nuclear war.</span>//</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">IRC ‘1</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…… Using nuclear weapons would make the U.S. a pariah state.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A federal infrastructure bank is key</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">COEA ‘12</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">- Council of Economic Advisers, Department of Treasury (“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, March 23,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget proposes a bold plan to renew and expand America’s infrastructure. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This plan includes</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> a $50 billion up-front investment connected to a six-year $476 billion reauthorization of </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> surface transportation program and</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> the </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">creation of a National Infrastructure Bank. The</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> President’s </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">plan would significantly increase investment</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> in …… </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">public and business sentiment regarding infrastructure investment.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario two is one port key to all heg ever:</span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">catastrophic events at Norfolk will leave the US __without__ an aircraft carrier force because it’s the only location in the US capable of CVN refueling</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">O’Rourke 12</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14,</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Strategic dispersal: </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The strategic dispersal of surface ships</span>__ <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">repair infrastructure </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">supporting</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> those crucial assets.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Great power war</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brookes 8</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[#|Heritage Foundation]]</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2k8 (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>



__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers</span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">quantity has a quality</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> all its own.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I sure hope we get those ports pretty soon</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States. </span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We solve and don’t you dare question it – durable fiat.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Contention Two is Brave New World</span>__**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In 1932, Aldous Huxley published his dystopian classic, //Brave New World//, to demonstrate the dangers of the bureaucratization of modern life, 81 years later, in 2013, we bring you a Brave New Aff---we hope that our __performance__ of a dystopian world of debate can open your eyes to the dangerous trends of our activity and society…we could have been at Berkeley with all of our favorite judges who would be much more receptive to this argument, instead we are 3000 miles from our home in Phoenix, talking to you…we think this idea is worth spreading and discussing, and we hope you are willing to listen to what we have to say</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The first part of the 1AC was performing what the world of debate will look like if we keep down the path of illogical nuclear war scenarios and reliance on a bankrupt government institution. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have performed our criticism of this form of debate—you should be uncomfortable with the way we have presented contention 1. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Policy debate has become a conditioned routine of “the United States federal government should”, and we soak it up round after round; we have come to believe that debate in any other form is impossible, Huxley describes the context for his brave new world in chapter 1:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Chapter One</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A SQUAT grey building of only thirty-four stories. Over the main entrance</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All conditioning aims at that: making people like their unescapable social destiny."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our tournaments look more like ritualistic, apocalyptic orgies than scholarly endeavors, Huxley continues</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the tom-toms continued to beat their feverish tattoo: “Orgy-porgy, Ford and fun,</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Kiss the girls and make them One. Boys at one with girls at peace; Orgy-porgy **gives release**.”</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Instead of taking a hit of fiat in the face of a slew of extinction impacts, we must re-invent our politics to hold our institutions accountable for corporate corruption, just like Bernard refuses to take Soma in Chapter six</span>__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">He remained obstinately gloomy the whole afternoon; wouldn’t talk to Lenina’s friends (of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. And instead of feeling miserable, you’d be jolly. So jolly,”</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lindsey 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Dr Jason, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in Political Science from Columbia University</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I. Introduction For the political scientist, Baudrillard's work on simulation and the hyperreal</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">our contemporary situation, is a greater challenge (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, in chapter 16, “the Savage” who has lived outside of the Brave New World for his entire life ends up in dialogue with the World Controller, Mustapha Mond, the man in charge of social stability and conditioning---Mond decides to banish the critical thinkers to an island away from society, what will you decide to do with us?</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE ROOM into which the three were ushered was the Controller's study. "His</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, who's any one. I almost envy you, Mr. Watson."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">You are the Controller in the debate---you can affirm the Savage’s rejection of the fascist, fear-based state, or you can banish us to an island</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Livingston 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deliberative democracy is a fantasy, and a dangerous one at that. A politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With it, nomads and barbarians lay siege to the gates of empire.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dystopianism can disrupt the overly conditioned practices of modern debate to open up new possibilities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith ’11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Brian, bachelor in English from Asbury College and MS in ethics and public policy from Suffolk University, and currently involved in the Boston University department of political science. Oct. 2011, from Philosophy and Literature, Vol. 35, Number 2, pp. 348-359, “Anti-Essentialism and Freedom in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World”, Project Muse) SW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When Huxley quotes the famous Jefferson line in Brave New World Revisited—"If a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of things to face up to the possibility of a radically divergent future.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC Harvard Round 2</span>== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ableism --- [same as Stanford]</span>
==1AC State== 
===1AC Straits of Malacca=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Status quo realignment to Guam has been hampered by delays, uncertainty, and cost overruns – infrastructure upgrades are a prerequisite to successful relocation</span>**
**Matthews 12** (Laura, International Business Times reporter, 7/12/12/, “Guam Faces Uncertain Future as U.S. Delays Shifting Marines from Okinawa,” [[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/351154/20120612/guam-military-buildup-relocation-marines-okinawa-real.htm]], JS)

**__The talks began …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they actually do." </span>

**Guam is comparatively the best way to solve Southeast Asian terror – distance from everything – specifically the Straits of Malacca**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kan 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Shirley A. Kan, 3/29/12, Congressional Research Service, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf, pg. 7, accessed 8/13/12, JTF]</span>

A third rationale … and San Diego.

**That solves multiple scenarios for extinction:**
**First is Terrorism –**

**The Jemaah Islamiya group will attack the Strait of Malacca – regional trends**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Piracy Watch 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Piracy Watch, 11/13/12, “Combating Maritime Piracy In The Straits Of Malacca International …,” http://piracywatch.net/2012/11/13/combating-maritime-piracy-in-the-straits-of-malacca-international/, accessed 11/13/12, JTF]</span>

There is a … <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> instability of the region. [20]</span>

**The Strait of Malacca will be attacked with WMDs – it’s the most vulnerable and results in oil price shocks and the collapse of maritime shipping, LNG trade, and Asian economies**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Korin, and Luft, 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anne and Gal, Institute for the Analysis of Global Security Director of Policy and Strategic Planning,, IAGS Executive Director, Foreign Affairs, November/December 2004, "Terrorism Goes to Sea," http://www.cfr.org/world/terrorism-goes-sea/p7545, CM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pirates and Islamist … and technical documents.</span>

**The strait is key to the regional and global economy**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Joint Force Quarterly ’07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“The enduring value of military-to-military cooperation in Southeast Asia”;Wheeler, John D.; Weinstock, Herschel, SECTION: Pg. 65(4) No. 47, 12/1/07)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Diversity and positive … </span> resolve common issues.

**Terrorism is the fastest internal link to Asian economic collapse – market psychology**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gatsiounis 04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ioannis, Malaysia based journalist who has written for the Wall Street Journal, Asia Times, and the New York Times, 8-11-04, " Malacca Strait: Target for terror," http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Southeast_Asia/FH11Ae02.html, CM)</span>

While supply is … to some extent<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Asian economic collapse causes great power war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Auslin 9</span> (Michael, Resident Scholar @ AEI, Weekly Standard, “Averting Disaster Preventing the worst case scenario in Asia”, http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/115jtnqw.asp)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AS THEY DEAL WITH … </span> systems in the past<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Independently, trade makes conflict impossible – terrorism disrupts trade and leads to great power wars**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Panitchpakdi 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Supachai Panitchpakdi, secretary-general of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, 2/26/2004, American Leadership and the World Trade Organization, p. http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second point … absence of rules.</span>

**Second is China –**

**Guam is critical to deterrence of Chinese aggression**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Halloran, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard, former New York Times foreign correspondent in Asia, “ A force buildup on Guam anchors a broad US military strategy to keep China in check," http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/January%202011/0111pacific.aspx, CM]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its strategy … </span> sense of pre-eminence.

**A strong forward presence in the Pacific is key to deterring China from going to war – establishes a regional security framework & preparations for de-escalating conflicts**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Berteau and Green ’12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David J. Berteau, International Security Program Director at CSIS, and Dr. Michael J. Green, Senior Advisor & Japan Chair at CSIS, U.S. Force Posture Strategy in the Asia Pacif­ic Region: An Independent Assessment, CSIS, August 2012, http://csis.org/files/publication/120814_FINAL_PACOM_optimized.pdf, NW]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent years the </span>… of larger conflicts.

**That allows a naval blockade of China which solves all conflict—perception is key and we control timeframe. Your interdependence defense doesn’t apply**
**Mirski 13** (Sean, Harvard Law School, “Stranglehold: The Context, Conduct and Consequences of an American Naval Blockade of China,” 2/12/13, Journal of Strategic Studies, Taylor and Francis Online, JS)

Since World War … __blockade were employed.__

**And, the Straits of Malacca are key—only Guam solves**
**Mirski 13** (Sean, Harvard Law School, “Stranglehold: The Context, Conduct and Consequences of an American Naval Blockade of China,” 2/12/13, Journal of Strategic Studies, Taylor and Francis Online, JS)

__To guarantee that … international shipping completely.__


**U.S.-China war is inevitable – ideology, nationalism, territorial disputes**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lieven 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Anatol, professor in the War Studies Department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation, June 12, 2012, New York Times, “Avoiding a U.S.-China War, New York Times,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html, NW]</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Relations between the … <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> of Central America.</span></span>

**Even limited China exchange causes extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Takai ’09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What would happen </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by nuclear hard-liners. </span>
===**1AC Plan Text**=== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure at the Port of Guam.**
===**1AC Solvency**=== 
**Port of Guam is key to military relocation—federal funding is necessary**
**Jowers 8** (Karen, Staff Writer for Air Force Times, “Military buildup threatens to overwhelm Guam,” 2008, [[http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2008/05/airforce_guam_051008p]], JS)

__No American community …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Guam officials said. </span>

=Negative= 
==Round 1 Meadows vs. Damien LR== 
===T-military=== 
**Interpretation—“Transportation infrastructure” is __strictly defined__ as facilities of transport—the aff is __military transportation infrastructure__ which is __distinct__**
**Musick ‘10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although </span>different definitions ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Katrina</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2005).</span>

**US Legal <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">code</span> agrees**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Infrastructure Improvement Act 7</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007 – Passed by the Senate, http://uspolitics.about.com/od/legislation/l/bl_s775.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4) INFRASTRUCTURE(A) IN GENERAL- ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> waste disposal facility</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Decision-Making K</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff is constructed in response to a deluded, paranoid vision of reality where the apocalypse is always just around the corner</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gross and Gilles 12 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp123---125)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Flip through the … like global warming.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">And, their obsession with time-frame and “try or die” scenarios paves over the ongoing suffering of billions of impoverished people and environmental destruction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Nixon 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When Lawrence Summers, … ongoing, belated casualties.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Debate’s obsession with extinction is decimating our decisionmaking skills---students are brainwashed into paranoid apathy as we ignore empirical analysis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp131---134)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EVENTS VERSUS TRENDS … is already here.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Too complex</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rosenau 97 </span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(JA</span>**MES N. ROSENAU** is University Professor of International Affairs with the George Washington University. His scholarship has focused on the dynamics of change in world politics and the overlap of domestic and foreign affairs, resulting in more than 35 books and 150 articles, including T//urbulence in World Politics: A Theory of Change and Continuity//., <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many Damn Things Simultaneously:Complexity Theory and World Affairs, </span>[[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In this</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> emergent ... </span>theorizing within its limits.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Alternative---wake up from the apocalyptic nightmare of contemporary debate---you are an educator evaluating the political rhetoric of the 1AC, use your ballot to spark a transition away from improbable extinction scenarios. Force them to re-evaluate their addiction to catastrophe. The plan might be a good idea, but only if it’s based in a realistic, value-based set of justifications</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, //The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">185-208)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At some point … prove us right.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Your first priority is to affect change within the debate community---instead of serving as a conduit for global fear-mongering day after day, tournament after tournament, debaters should learn to conduct our lives free from paranoia</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Pain and Smith 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Susan Smith, Professor of Geography at Durham University, Rachel Pain, social geographer at the University of Durham, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fear: Critical Geopolitics and Everyday Life</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 1-7)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fear is on … least partially dismantled.</span>


**And---debate must produce critical media literacy by stringently analyzing the hyped up predictions that flow from content-hungry journalists**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Abdullah 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(dated by latest citation, Muhammed Shahril Shaik Abdullah is presently a Research and Policy Executive at Yayasan MENDAKI, overseeing education-related issues. previously an Infocomm Technology Executive and Media Educator, Toward Critical Media Literacy; moving beyond analysis and evaluation, http://www.thereadinggroup.sg/Articles/Critical%20Media%20Literacy.pdf)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The role of ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">of social change.</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Round 2 Glenbrooks vs. Notre Dame DB</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counter-advocacy</span>**=== 

**Our interpretation---you should vote for the best political advocacy strategy---debate is about communication and framing is the basis of all policymaking**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Andress 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Lauri, MPH, JD, Texas Program for Society and Health, Rice University and Doctoral Candidate, University of Texas School of Public Health, Topic: Strategic Frame Analysis & Policy Making: Where Does SFA Fit into our Strategic Plan?, http://www.frameworksinstitute.org/ezine18.html?searched=environmental&advsearch=oneword&highlight=ajaxSearch_highlight+ajaxSearch_highlight1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> From time-to-time </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">after a presentation ... </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> good over market autonomy.</span>

**Brain Science proves Framing is key to argument analysis**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**The Rockridge Institute ‘7**( Think tank lead by George Lakoff, Goldman Distinguished Professor of Cognitive Science and Linguistics at the University of California at Berkeley,</span> July 26, 2007 “Frames and Framing” http://web.archive.org/web/20071219003037/http://www.rockridgeinstitute.org/aboutus/frames-and-framing///
//Framing matters//
Expressing progressive political ideas//<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> ... </span><span class="Box"> order to improve political debate.</span>



**We must criticize debate’s strategic norm in order to enhance the pedagogical and democratic benefits of the activity---this outweighs fairness**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lundberg 10</span>** (Christian O, Master of the House of Theory, Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p306-313)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Because they are</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> also ... </span><span class="Box">veritable </span>cornucopia of materials<span class="Box">.</span>

==Round 2 Desert Ridge vs. DV GE== 
===T-Vehicles=== 
**A. Interpretation – Infrastructure is fixed, permanent equipment**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**GAO 98** </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">– U.S. General Accounting Office (“Best Practices: Elements Critical to Successfully Reducing Unneeded RDT&E Infrastructure: Report to Congressional Requesters,” GAO Website, Jan. 1998, http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/156058.pdf)//RD//</span>
//DoD<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> generally </span>defines ... <span style="font-size: 7pt;">and software tools.</span>//



//**B. Violation – the affirmative increases investment in vehicles – they’re distinct**//
//**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFST 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)</span>//RD
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transportation or transport ... control, and etc.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Round 4 ASU vs. Bingham HH</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oppression Olympics K</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The aff commodofies the suffering of in exchange for your ballot in the debate economy---playing a game where we move scenarios of suffering around like chesspieces for our own personal enjoyment is the most unethical form of intellectual imperialism</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Baudrillard 94</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Jean, “The Illusion of the End” p. 66-71]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">We have long denounced the capitalistic, economic exploitation of the poverty of the 'other half of the world' [['autre monde]. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> today </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">denounce</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">moral and sentimental exploitation of</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> that</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">poverty</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> - </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">charity cannibalism... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">: the demographic catastrophe, a veritable epidemic which we deplore each day in pictures.</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There is no reason to vote affirmative—there is no connection between the recommendations of the 1AC and material agency.</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schlag ‘90</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Pierre, professor of law at the University of Colorado, Stanford Law Review, lexis, AM)In fact, </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">normative ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __advice into effect.__</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The question of “what should be done” is the __wrong question__—their description of the status quo as a fixed, describable place is a lie. Talking in terms of “should” is pointless and guarantees fascism.</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schlag ‘91</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Pierre, Professor of Law at the University of Colorado, 139 University of Pennsylvania Law Review, April, Heinonline, AM)For these legal thinkers,... legal academy practice. </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And---they are the brokers of trauma on the academic market</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Colvin 6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (chris, medical anthropologist and works as Senior Research Officer in Social Sciences and HIV/AIDS, TB and STIs with the Infectious Disease Epidemiology Unit in the School of Public Health and Family Medicine at the University of Cape Town, PhD Candidate at UVA dept of Anthro, Trafficking trauma: Intellectual property rights and the political economy of traumatic storytelling, SSN 0256 004 Online 1992-6049 pp. 171–182)</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">This article begins with </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> brief </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">look at</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> Khulumani Support Group, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a support group for//victims of apartheid-era human rights abuses//</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">......., ‘my story,’ a unitary, bounded </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">an</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">d</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">unchanging narrative</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> that incorporates all that is essential in the ‘story of a victim’ 4 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">an anxiety over alienation from their story</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">, once commodified.</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">ranslating misery into capital is a perverse system of capitalist profiting off its own excesses---you should vote negative to reject their cherrypicking of misery and refuse to engage in the economy of trauma---</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Tomsky 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Terri, Ph.D in English from U-British Columbia, postdoctoral fellow in cultural memory at the University of Alberta From Sarajevo to 9/11: Travelling Memory and the Trauma Economy, Parallax Volume 17, Issue 4, 2011)</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">In contrast to the cosmopolitization of a Holocaust cultural memory,1 there exist experiences of trauma that fail to evoke recognition and subsequently, compassion and aid. ....</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">The sooner we acknowledge the influence of these interests, the closer we will come to an understanding of how trauma travels.</span>==<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Round 6 ASU vs. Torrey Pines HN</span>== ===<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">The James Hansen K (Climate Rhetoric)</span>=== **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Framework---you should vote for the best political advocacy strategy---debate is about communication and framing is the basis of all policymaking</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Andress 2</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Lauri, MPH, JD, Texas Program for Society and Health, Rice University and Doctoral Candidate, University of Texas School of Public Health, Topic: Strategic Frame Analysis & Policy Making: Where Does SFA Fit into our Strategic Plan?, http://www.frameworksinstitute.org/ezine18.html?searched=environmental&advsearch=oneword&highlight=ajaxSearch_highlight+ajaxSearch_highlight1) From time-to-time </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> over market autonomy.</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brain Science proves Framing is key to argument analysis</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Rockridge Institute ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">( Think tank lead by George Lakoff, Goldman Distinguished Professor of Cognitive Science and Linguistics at the University of California at Berkeley, July 26, 2007 “Frames and Framing” [[http://web.archive.org/web/20071219003037/http:www.rockridgeinstitute.org/aboutus/frames-and-framing|http://web.archive.org/web/20071219003037/http://www.rockridgeinstitute.org/aboutus/frames-and-framing//]]</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Framing matters </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Expressing ... //improve political debate.//</span>

**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the use of apocalyptic rhetoric to justify warming has failed---industry advocates have latched onto alarmism to make people stop caring about evidence</span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span>//** //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp123---125)</span>////<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">134-140Of the many challenges ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> trend is accelerating.</span>

**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming apocalypticism covers up root cause of overconsumption and greed</span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Swyngedouw ‘10</span>//**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Erik, Professor of Geography at the University of Manchester in its School of Environment and Development, “Apocalypse Forever: Post-political Populism and the Spectre of Climate Change,” Theory Culture Society, Vol. 27(2–3): 213–232)</span>////<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">We shall start from ...y from polluting industries.</span>//

**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Alternative---wake up from the apocalyptic nightmare of the 1AC and turn off the Day After Tomorrow---refuse climate doomsaying and interrogate the framing choices of the aff---we agree that addressing warming is important, but we must frame __CCS__ correctly before we will get it onto the public Agenda</span>//**
**//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span>//** //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers,</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">185-208)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">he end of a ...</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> eventually prove us right.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Round 2 Stanford vs. Hunter AD</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Politics of Translatability K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our democracy is plagued by Elite corruption and partisan gridlock however Fiat has become religious doctrine within policy debate and we’re all happy to keep playing our game where the government operates smoothly---this argument is a Gateway Issue: before you decide whether the plan is a good idea, they have to JUSTIFY their METHODOLOGICAL RELIANCE on Fiat</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lindsey 12</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Dr Jason, </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in Political Science from Columbia University</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">I. IntroductionFor the political …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;"> is a greater challenge</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And---their hyped up extinction scenarios are government tactics to consolidate authority in the hands of the elite---neuroscience demonstrates that they are literally brainwashing us into Fascism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Livingston 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSEDeliberative democracy is … //generalized central black hole//</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Elitist corporate corruption accesses the root cause of all their impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hayes 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Christopher, Editor of The Nation and fellow @ Harvard’s Foundation Center for Ethics, (2012-06-12). Twilight of the Elites: America After Meritocracy (Kindle Locations 34-58), chapter 1)</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">AMERICA FEELS BROKEN. </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Over … to take responsibility*.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vote negative to politicize the ballot AGAINST their useless style of simulated politics---we refuse to consent to a methodology that consolidates power in the hands of corporate oligarchy---Shattering the illusion of FIAT and forcing the aff to search for new Models of Debate---they don’t get a perm because we are asking a PRIOR QUESTION</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Swyngedouw 8</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Erik, Prof of Social and Political Geography in School of Environment and Developpment at U of Manchester, Where is the political?)</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The aim of this contribution is to re-centre political thought again by exploring the views of a series of political philosophers and interlocutors who share the view that </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">‘the political’ needs … post-political post-democracy.</span>//

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan Flaw (aka Neil Murphy K)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. Interpretation: "resolved" means to be firm in purpose or intent.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">www.dictionary.com 2/9/2013</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Resolved:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">adjective: "firm in purpose or intent; determined."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B. Violation: the 1ac plan text capitalizes "Federal Government".</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C. Independent voter:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1) No solvency advocate and abuse of fiat. Plan text advocates an illegitimate solvency advocate. The resolution and their solvency evidence requires USfg lower-case action.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2) Aff must win offense for why the plan flaw and laziness is superior.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3) Grammar key to effective policy engagement</span>**

==**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Round 6 vs. St. Francis RG</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T – investment</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Interpretation – Increase means net increase</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Words and Phrases, 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Cummulative Supplementary Pamphlet, v. 20a, p.295)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991. Term “increase,” as used in statute giving the Energy Commission modification jurisdiction over any alteration, replacement, or improvement of equipment that results in “increase” of 50 megawatts or more in electric generating capacity of existing thermal power plant, refers to “net increase” in power plant’s total generating capacity; in deciding whether there has been the requisite 50-megawatt increase as a result of new units being incorporated into a plant, Energy Commission cannot ignore decreases in capacity caused by retirement or deactivation of other units at plant. West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation investment requires federal spending</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warner, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect</span><span style="color: #444444; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|__http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD__]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program. ‘(6) TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM- The term ‘transportation program’ means a plan or strategy prepared by a metropolitan planning organization or a State for transportation systems and facilities in the metropolitan planning area or the State, including a transportation plan, transportation improvement program, statewide transportation plan, or statewide transportation improvement program developed under section 5303 or 5304 of this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violation - The plan doesn’t increase federal spending – it just changes how current spending is financed.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress has a statutory cap on highway spending that sets an upper limit regardless of the size of the HTF</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal Highway Administration, 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Financing Federal-Aid Highways”, March,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/reports/financingfederalaid/financing_highways.pdf|__http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/reports/financingfederalaid/financing_highways.pdf__]])//DH</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The financing cycle … under contract authority.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Voting issue –</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A) Ground - Disad links and counterplan competition stem from requiring the aff to increase investment – they circumvent it by claiming to rearrange federal spending to allow deficit reduction by raising revenue.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B) Limits – specification of a funding mechanism creates unpredictable affs and advantages based purely on the funding mechanism. This aff isn’t conceptually distinct from a plan that cut the B-2 bomber and reallocated the money to the HTF.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C) Extra T is a voting issue – it is impossible for the negative to predict the untopical parts the affirmative can add to skew the debate in their favor. If we prove extra T, it is outside of your jurisdiction to vote aff.</span>**




==Semifinals Stanford vs. Pine Crest LM== 
===**Amygdala Reflexive Study of Neuroscience K**=== 

**Our democracy is plagued by Elite corruption and partisan gridlock however Fiat has become religious doctrine within policy debate and we’re all happy to keep playing our game where the government operates smoothly**
**And---their hyped up extinction scenarios are government tactics to consolidate authority in the hands of the elite---neuroscience demonstrates that they are literally brainwashing us into Fascism**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Livingston 12</span>** (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE
Deliberative democracy is … //central black hole//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The alternative is to deconstruct fear using the ballot as a micropolitical act of resistance---instead of serving as a conduit for global fear-mongering day after day, tournament after tournament, debaters should learn to conduct our lives free from paranoia**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Pain and Smith 8</span>** (Susan Smith, Professor of Geography at Durham University, Rachel Pain, social geographer at the University of Durham, //Fear: Critical Geopolitics and Everyday Life//, 1-7)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fear is on the up</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. … </span> least partially dismantled.
===Hegemony K=== 
**China threats are predicated on affect rather than evidence**
**Lim ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kean Fan, Department of Geography, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, “What You See Is (Not) What You Get? The Taiwan Question, Geo-economic Realities, and the “China Threat” Imaginary,” Antipode Journal, Wiley Online Library, AM)</span>

__The identification of__ __…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and balancing China. </span>

**The NPT and anti-prolif discourse treat Third World nations as unique nuclear threats- the logic of their plan assumes fundamental cultural differences between the West and its others that can be used as basis for making racist political divisions- you should be suspicious of their truth claims because they’re self-serving and polarizing**
**<span class="Heading4Char">Gusterson ’99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Hugh, Anthropologist @ MIT, </span>__Nuclear Weapons and the Other in the Western Imagination__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, //Cultural Anthropology// Vol. 14, No. 1 Feb. 1999 pp. 111-143, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the … national security discourse.</span>

**The affirmative’s evocation of the terrorist threat is not objective—it’s based on flawed information and is used to define a Western identity—this framing __causes terrorism__ and makes an effective response impossible.**
**Jackson ‘7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, Reader in International Politics, Dr Jackson lectures on critical terrorism studies, international conflict resolution and security studies. He was awarded his PhD from the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, and has previously taught at the University of Manchester and the University of Otago. He is the founding editor of the journal, Critical Studies on Terrorism, and the convenor of the BISA Critical Studies on Terrorism Working Group (CSTWG). He is currently working on an ESRC-funded project in collaboration with Dr Matt McDonald (Warwick) on ‘The Coalition of the Willing and the Construction of Security’, “Constructing Enemies: ‘Islamic Terrorism’ in Political and Academic Discourse,” Government and Opposition, Vol. 42, No. 3, pp. 394–426, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Employing the same … </span> **__waste of resources.__**

**Rhetorical engagement with the Middle East is locked within an orientalist narrative of dualistic identity construction—The Aff’s epistemological intervention is founded on assumptions that make domination inevitable.**
**Munif**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD—Umass Amherst Department of Sociology, 20</span>**06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Media is the Continuation of War,” MIT E-Journal of Middle East Studies, Vol. 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, an understanding … </span> __of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">European</span> __**modernity.**__

==Round 4 Harvard vs. East Kentwood LS== 
===Intersectionality K=== 
**Their understanding of anti-blackness is a calcified ideology that’s lost the ability to be self-reflexive about racial progress in society---voting aff only re-enforces a self-fulfilling narrative and re-enforces their investment in disenfranchisement**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 8</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">—Chaired Professor for Excellence in English at the University of Washington. Author of the National Book Award-winning novel //Middle Passage// and many other works. (Charles, The End of the Black American Narrative, American Scholar, 77(3):32-42)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 5pt;">Yet, despite being … </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> of their character?</span>




**Specifically, the geopolitics of disability intersects with race**
David T. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell AND</span> Sharon L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder, ’10</span>** (PhD Michigan and executive director of the Institute on Disabilities, AND Assistant Professor of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois, Chicago, “Disability as Multitude Re-working Non-Productive Labor Power” Temple University and Independent Scholar, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 4.2 (2010), 179-194)
The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Geo-</span>Politics … and gender intersect.¶

**And, race is interrelated with capital**
**Young ‘1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - professor of English @ University of Alabama (Robert, “The Linguistic Turn, Materialism and Race: Toward an Aesthetics of Crisis,” Callaloo, 24(1), Winter 2001, pp. 334-345, Project MUSE, AM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1985 during … horizon of language” (265).</span>



**The alternative is to REFUSE TO ACCEPT ANY ONE ONTOLOGICAL ROOT CAUSE OF OPPRESSION and Embrace specific intersectional approaches--- totalizing theories ignore complexity of social issues and devolve into authoritarianism---specifically their alternative would only end in more violence and increased racism because of the inevitable binaries constructed by a violent revolution---**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Morson 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gary, Professor of Slavic Studies, Russian Literature and History at Northwestern, “Anna Karenina In Our Time: Seeing More Wisely,” P. 152-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If Levin resembled so … as they appear. </span>
===Invisibility K (thanks andy jones)=== 
**The battle for the public sphere is over—we lost. Conservatives and Liberals are now two sides of the same coin, and any movement that actually promises radical change will be destroyed as soon as it becomes visible. An invisible movement has the most subversive potential—voting neg to reject politics is the only political act**
**The Invisible Committee, ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">an anonymous group of French professors, phd candidates, and intellectuals, in the book “The Coming Insurrection” published by Semiotext(e) (attributed to the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarnac_Nine|Tarnac Nine]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by the French police),</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tarnac9.noblogs.org/gallery/5188/insurrection_english.pdf]]]</span>

__Whatever angle you …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> drawn from it.</span>

**To make micropolitics visible is to coopt it by giving resistance an object – this understanding allows resistance to be framed, to be declared a failure and prevents the immanence of imperceptible politics from coalescing around mundane practices and habitudes of existence**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tsianos et al. ‘8</span>** Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. “Escape Routes: Control and Subversion in the 21st Century” Pluto Press

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In this sense </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… for imperceptible politics.</span></span></span>

**Their arguments about personal agency are ultimately conservative and de-politicizing – arguments for localizing activism within the purview of social location are the equivalent of privatizing social change, creating us as dependent on the necessity of their advocacy. The more successful their strategy is the more damage it does by making institutions necessary to our understanding of social change**
**__Hershock '99__**, East-West Center, 1999. [“Changing the way society changes”, //Journal of Buddhist Ethics//, 6, 154; [[http://jbe.gold.ac.uk/6/hershock991.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The trouble is … </span> __with all things.__
==Double-Octafinals Harvard vs. Pace CK== 
===Rodriguez K=== 
**Moving the USFG around like a chesspiece normalizes racist violence---the alternative is radical analysis and radical rejection of the state**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rodriguez 8</span>** (Dylan, Associate Professor at Un iversity of Califo r n i a Riverside, Warfare and the Terms of Engagement, libcom.org/files/Critical Resistance - Abolition Now! Ten Years of Strategy and Struggle against the Prison Industrial Complex.pdf
This introductory litany … progressive US left.

===ASPEC=== 
(Analytics)
===Micropolitical Alternative=== 
(Analytical micropolitical affirmation of critical evacuation infrastructure)
==Round 2 State vs. Desert Vista DH== 
===T-Substantial=== 
**A. Interpretation**
**A substantial investment is over 20%**
**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)//EM
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>__C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount which--__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">`(i) was added to the capital account for an existing facility during the 3-year period ending on the last day of any taxable year with respect to which such facility is a tax holiday plant, and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">`(ii) </span>__caused the sum of all amounts added to such account during such period to exceed 20 percent of the total value of such facility__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (determined in the manner provided in subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>

**Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion**
**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)//EM

__This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). It is the latest report on the uses of and accountability for Recovery Act funds in selected states and localities, focusing on the $48.1 billion provided to the Department of Transportation (DOT) to invest in transportation infrastructure.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This report also examines the quality of recipients' reports about the jobs created and retained with Recovery Act transportation funds. This report addresses the (1) status, use, and outcomes of Recovery Act transportation funding nationwide and in selected states; (2) actions taken by federal, state, and other agencies to monitor and ensure accountability for those funds; (3) changes in the quality of jobs data reported by Recovery Act recipients of transportation funds over time; and (4) challenges faced and lessons learned from DOT and recipients. GAO analyzed DOT and recipient reported data; reviewed federal legislation, guidance, and reports; reviewed prior work and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

**B. Violation**
**The affirmative’s investment is not over $9.62 billion**

**C. Voting issue:**

**1. Limits – Any investment under 20% explodes the topic and makes it impossible to research all the possible affs.**

**2. Ground – generic disads like tradeoff and spending don’t link to minor increases in spending, which are specifically key on this topic.** 
===**Security K**=== 
**Their security discourse sanitizes global destruction by proliferating symptom-focused solutions to global power imbalances—causes cycles of violence that make global warfare and extinction inevitable**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ahmed 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Dr. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed is Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Research and Development (IPRD), an independent think tank focused on the study of violent conflict, he has taught at the Department of International Relations, University of Sussex "The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society" Global Change, Peace Security Volume 23, Issue 3, 2011 Taylor Francis)//GS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. From securitisation … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on these issues.</span>

**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the flawed framing of security—a radically renewed focus on the epistemological and representational security lens is a prerequisite to effective policy solutions**
**Bruce 96** –<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Graeme, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert, editor, widespread author on security, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This goal is … them, and why?</span>
===Reg Neg CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should conduct a binding regulatory negotiation over the substance, implementation and enforcement of [ ]. The United States federal government should implement the results of the negotiation.** 

**The counterplan solves the whole case–regulatory negotiations facilitate consensus decisions quickly that are legitimate and enforced**
**Harter ’97** (Phillip, JD at University of Michigan, 46 Duke L.K. p. 1399-1400)


__The most well ...__  __considered most valuable.__
===__Immigration PTX__=== 
**Immigration reform passing now** 
**Salamanca 3/13** (Jean-Paul, Reporter for Latino Post, “Immigration Reform News: Obama Still Waiting on Immigration Bill, Tells Democrats He Is "Very Positive" On Reform Chances,” 3/13/13, [[http://www.latinospost.com/articles/14284/20130313/immigration-reform-news-obama-still-waiting-bill-tells-democrats-very.htm]], JS)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He is urgently ... the Daily Caller.</span>

**Plan kills Obama's immigration push**
Amy <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harder</span>, National Journal, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2/6</span>/13, In Washington, Energy and Climate Issues Get Shoved in the Closet, www.nationaljournal.com/columns/power-play/in-washington-energy-and-climate-issues-get-shoved-in-the-closet-20130206

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a news ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> blow to Republicans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**Obama’s political capital key to passage**
Bill <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Keller 13 </span>, NYTimes, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2/3/</span>13, Selling Amnesty, www.nytimes.com/2013/02/04/opinion/keller-selling-amnesty.html?pagewanted=print

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let’s assume that ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//legislative tactics//.

**Critical to US economic recovery**
Aaron Terrazas, Migration Policy Institute, July 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, The Economic Integration of Immigrants in the United States: Long- and Short-Term Perspectives, http://www.migrationpolicy.org/pubs/EconomicIntegration.pdf

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The fate of </span>immigrants... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">immigrants often provide.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nuclear war</span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Harris and Burrows ‘9 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report ...</span> dog-eat-dog world.
==__Round 3 State vs. Hamilton RS__== 
===__T-Land Grants__=== 
**A. Interpretation - ‘Its’ shows ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005** 
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__its__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ours, theirs </span>__are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__possessive pronouns____used to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> substitute a</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">noun</span> __and to show__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possession or </span>__ownership.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
**Warner, 11** – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect<span style="color: #444444;"> to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, </span>[[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term</span> **__‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ‘(6) TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM- The term ‘transportation program’ means a plan or strategy prepared by a metropolitan planning organization or a State for transportation systems and facilities in the metropolitan planning area or the State, including a transportation plan, transportation improvement program, statewide transportation plan, or statewide transportation improvement program developed under section 5303 or 5304 of this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>

**Violation–the aff does not solely use federal funding–Loan guarantees leverage private investment but do not actually spend federal funds—even if the company defaults, the money goes to __banks.__**
**It’s also conditional**
**Muro and Rothwell 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mark Muro, senior fellow and director of policy for the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings, Jonathan Rothwell a Senior Research Analyst and Associate Fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program Brookings: “DOE’s Loan Guarantee Program Will Likely Result in Minimal Costs and Large Gains for Taxpayers” By Climate Guest Blogger on Sep 28, 2011 at 8:25 am by Mark Muro and Jonathan Rothwell, in a Brookings repost BK</span>
**__A loan guarantee is distinct from free money__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> via a grant or a tax credit. </span>__A guarantee results in actual spending **only if the borrower goes into default**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at which point, the attorney general is obligated to recover the unpaid principal and interest by seizing the borrower’s assets.</span>


**Voting Issue—**
**Limits–literally any incentive mechanism or transfer of funds to any organization is topical**
**Ground–they spike out of core neg arguments like the spending DA and privatization CP, and also take away CP mechanisms from the neg—that’s crucial on a large topic.**
**Extra-topicality is an independent voting issue–we can’t predict the different combinations of funding mechanisms that the aff could use to skew the debate in its favor and doesn’t jurisdictionally affirm the resolution.** 
===**Frontier K**=== 
**(tag written by hand before round, i lost it)**
**Turner ’20** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frederick Jackson Turner, Prof. at Harvard, //The Frontier in American History//, Chapter 1, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a recent ... discussed farther on.</span>
===**Leases CP**=== 
**The United States federal government should offer negotiated land leases for the development of a [whatever plan says for ‘bering strait tunnel’**

**The counterplan and the plan are distinct – the plan is a free gift**
**Benge 12** Vicki, “Definition of a Federal Land Grant,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ehow.com/info_8013048_definition-federal-land-grant.html]]</span>

**__A federal land ...__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the federal government.</span>


**Leases solve – lead to “//__guaranteed__//” infrastructure, and generate //__additional revenue__//**
**Rice Center 86** “Prepared for Federal Highway Administration and Urban Mass Transportation Administration U.S. Department of Transportation,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ntl.bts.gov/DOCS/afut.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Both highway and .... </span>taken by Pierce.

**Revenue raised from leasing vital to environmental protection**
Adam **Vann**, Legislative Attorney, 2-1-**2012** <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40806.pdf]]</span>
*BLM=Bureau of Land Management

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recent </span>**__concerns__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over ... </span> **__environmentally sensitive areas.__**

**Unique risk in the Bering Strait- only the CP solves important remediation measures to protect biodiversity and provides the requisite energy needs** 
Artyom V. **Ell**, principal architect, **et al 2012** <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.proa2.ru/project/bering_strait_tunnel_and_peace_park]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Biosphere. </span>**__Unique geographical ...__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> through the tunnel.</span>
==Semi-Finals State vs. Desert Vista RZ== 
===Ableism K=== 
(see Stanford 1AC)
===Anthro Good=== 

**Anthropogenic focus is good—**

**The alternative is environmental paralysis** 
**Manson 9 -** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">received my B.A.in philosophy from the University of Maryland-College Park in May 1989 and my Ph.D. in philosophy from Syracuse University in December 1998. I held the post of Gifford Research Fellow in Natural Theology at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland from January 1999 through May 2001. In the 2001-2002 academic year I was Postdoctoral Research Associate at the Center for Philosophy of Religion at the University of Notre Dame. I was a visiting assistant professor of philosophy at Virginia Commonwealth University in the 2002-2003 academic year before I was hired as an assistant professor at the University of Mississippi in 2003. I was promoted to associate professor in 2009 (Neil, Necessary Anthropocentricism, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.environmentalphilosophy.org/ISEEIAEPpapers/2009/Manson.pdf) AS</span>

**__Many environmental philosophers ...__**  __term from Callicott.__

**Turn—indigenous peoples—**

**Eliminating divisions between human and animal causes the conscious destruction of indigenous cultures.**
**Staudenmaier ‘4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Ambiguities of Animal Rights, Institute for Social Ecology, http://www.social-ecology.org/article.php?story=20040611140817458)</span>

__The unexamined cultural ...__ __a serious concern__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Loss of cultural diversity risks extinction.**
**Stavenhagen ’90**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rodolfo, Professor @ the United Nations University, </span>__The Ethnic Question__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pg. 73</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The struggle for ...</span> __all human beings__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Key to space col—**

**Animal experimentation and exploitation is critical to NASA zero-gravity birthing tests that are a pre-requisite to space colonization.** 
**Lakdawala** **2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Seema, BORN IN SPACE 3..2..1..BLASTOFF, http://www.cse.emory.edu/sciencenet/undergrad/SURE/Articles/2000_art_lakdawala.html)</span>

__Human kind has__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> __be born in space__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Prevents extinction.**
**Austen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ben, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]], AM) *Modified for gender, denoted by brackets</span>

__Earth won’t always ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Earth than on it.” </span>
=Negative Strategies= 
==Meadows== 
Round 1 vs. Damien LR
Aff: Aircraft Carriers
1NC-- T-military, Decision-Making K, Case-D
2NC-- K
1NR-- T, Case-D
2NR-- T

Round 4 vs. College Prep FP
Aff: Port Dredging
1NC-- Decision-Making K, Case-D
2NC-- K
1NR-- Case-D
2NR-- K, Case-D

Round 5 vs. Desert Vista BC
Aff: Alaskan Ports
1NC-- Decision-Making K, Case-D
2NC-- K
1NR-- Case-D
2NR-- K, Case-D
==Glenbrooks== 
Round 2 vs. Notre Dame DB
Aff: NexGen
1NC-- Decision-Making K, Counter-Advocacy, Case-D
2NC-- K, Case
1NR-- Counter-Advocacy
2NR-- K, Counter-Advocacy, Case

Round 4 vs. Grapevine JU
Aff: ITS
1NC-- Decision-Making K, Case-D
2NC-- K
1NR-- Case-D
2NR-- K, Case-d

Round 6 vs. Westwood LR
Aff: NIB
1NC-- Cap K, De-Dev
2NC-- K, Collapse inevitable
1NR-- Alt, De-Dev
2NR-- K, De-Dev

==Desert Ridge== 
Round 2 vs. Desert Vista GE
Aff: Electric Vehicles
1NC-- T-vehicles, Decision-Making K, Case-D, Solvency (analytics)
2NC-- K
1NR-- T, Case-D, Solvency
2NR-- K, Case-D, Solvency

Quarters vs. Hamilton DP
Aff: Dredging
1NC-- Decision-Making K, Case-D
2NC-- K
1NR-- Case-D
2NR-- K, Case-D

==ASU== 
Round 1 vs. Chandler SW
Aff: Climate Adaptation
1NC-- Cap K, De-Dev
2NC-- Cap K
1NR-- De-Dev
2NR-- K, De-Dev

Round 4 vs. Bingham HH
Aff: Emergency Evacuation (New Orleans kinda)
2NR-- Oppression Olympics K

Round 6 vs. Torrey Pines HN
Aff: CCS
2NR-- The James Hansen K (Climate Rhetoric)

Octas vs. Sage Ridge CL
Aff: PSPP
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR-- Decision-Making K</span>

==Stanford== 
Round 2 vs. Hunter AD
Aff: Adaptation
1NC-- Politics of Translatability K, Plan Flaw
2NR-- K and Plan Flaw as a Link

Round 3 vs. Marquette FV
Aff: National Parks
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Round 6 vs. St. Francis RG
Aff: HTF
1NC-- T-investment, Politics of Translatability K
2NR-- K

Double-Octafinals vs. St. Francis RS
Aff: Port Security
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Octafinals vs. GBN HK <3
Aff: Ports
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Quarters vs. Damien LR
Aff: Carriers
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Semifinals vs. Pinecrest LM
Aff: Buses
1NC-- Amygdala Reflexive Study of Neuroscience K, Hegemony K
2NR-- Both K's
==Harvard== 
Round 1 vs. Chatahooche MS
Aff: Port Security
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Round 4 vs. East Kentwood LS
Aff: Afro-Pessimism (Wilderson)
1NC-- Framework, Intersectionality K, and Invisibility K
2NC-- Intersectionality K, Invisibility K, and Oppression Olympics
1NR-- Framework
2NR-- Intersectionality K

Round 5 vs. Pace BP
Aff: NIB
2NR-- Politics of Translatability K

Double-Octafinals vs. Pace CK
Aff: Critical Evacuation
1NC-- Rodriguez K, Politics of Translatability K, ASPEC, Micropolitical Alternative
2NR-- Micropolitics

==State== 
Round 2 vs. Desert Vista DH
Aff: Alaskan Ports
1NC-- T-sub, Security K, Reg Neg CP, Immigration PTX, Case-D
2NC-- Reg Neg CP, Case-D
1NR-- PTX
2NR-- CP, PTX, Case-D

Round 3 vs. Hamilton RS
Aff: Bering Strait
1NC-- Frontier K, T-land grants, Leases PIC, Reg Neg CP, Immigration PTX, Case
2NC-- T, PIC, Case
1NR-- PTX
2NR-- T, PIC

Sems vs. Desert Vista RZ
Aff: Heidegger
1NC-- Framework, Ableism K, Oppression Olympics K, Reg Neg CP, Immigration PTX, Anthro Good
2NC-- FW, Ableism K, Oppression Olympics K, Reg Neg CP
1NR-- Anthro Good, PTX
2NR-- Ptx, Anthro Good