[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
Aff vs. Westminster BW


==ADV 1== 
<span class="Underline">**Advantage one is warming**</span>
**Its real – reject skeptics**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6/24, Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Certainty in science </span>__If you ask a scientist …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

<span class="Underline">**its irreversible – optimistic projections fall short of the tipping point,** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Anderson and Bows 2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kevin Anderson and Alice Bows, Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, School of Mechanical,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace and Civil Engineering, “Beyond ‘dangerous’ climate change: emission scenarios for a new world”, [[http://climateknowledge.org/figures/Rood_Climate_Change_AOSS480_Documents/Anderson_Emission_Scenarios_PhilTransRoySoc_2011]].pdf] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In relation to the first two issues … particularly those directly informing policy. </span>

<span class="Underline">**And even if we cut emissions to zero we cannot change atmospheric CO2 concentrations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cairns, 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—University Distinguished Professor of Environmental Biology Emeritus, Department of Biology, and Director Emeritus, University Center for Environmental and Hazardous Materials Studies, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University [John Cairns Jr, “IRREVERSIBLE CLIMATE CHANGE WILL ALSO CHANGE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT,” 2010]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmental and management methods and procedures … </span>__as carbon dioxide’__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’ (Solomon et al. 2009, p 1705).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Environmental stress will be the leading cause in 21st Century conflicts via migration and resource shortages**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conely and Werz 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Laura is a graduate student in international relations at the University of Chicago and a Research Associate for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress and Michael is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and a public policy scholar with the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and at Harvard, Center for American Progress, "Climate Change, Migration, and Conflict", January 2012, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/01/pdf/climate_migration.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Migration adds another layer of complexity to the scenario … cutting across all aspects of human development.</span>


**Specifically, it will causes instability in Yemen, Pakistan, and the Arctic**
**Rogers and Gulledge 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. (Center for New American Security, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy”, April 2010,http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The national security community is just beginning … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">near- and long-term </span>planning in the Arctic<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Cite">Continued Yemeni instability causes Saudi Arabia-Iran proxy wars</span>
<span class="Cite">Bipartisan Policy Center 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Project Co-Chairs: Ambassador Paula Dobriansky, former Undersecretary of State Admiral (Ret.) Gregory Johnson, former Commander, U.S. Naval Forces, Europe Fragility and Extremism in Yemen, Bipartisan Policy Center, January 2011 pg 3</span>

Were<span class="underline0"> the situation to deteriorate further, … an extremely impoverished and underserviced population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**Nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">United Press International 09</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Saudi-Yemen conflict sharpens region's rivalries” [[http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2009/12/01/Saudi-Yemen-conflict-sharpens-regions-rivalries/UPI-23441259705297/]])</span>

<span class="underline0">If the U.S. initiative to solve … </span>fighting in Yemen gets worse and drags in others<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Pakistan collapse causes GNW**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pitt, 9 [</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]])]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan … addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Staples</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 8/10/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is … threat or **use of nuclear weapons**.”__

**We’re inherent – new satellite non uniques your DA**
<span class="Underline">**Scientific American 11/17,**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Weather Data Gap Now Appears Certain:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NOAA says the gap will begin in late 2016 and last from 12 to 18 months, depending on how long it takes to complete quality-control checks on a new satellite”, John J. Fialka and ClimateWire | November 17, 2011, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=weather-data-gap-now-appears-certain</span>
NOAA received<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> just $382 million for JPSS … </span><span class="Underline">must overcome years of setbacks,"</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Zinser said. </span>


==ADV 2== 

**A unique window exists for continued US-Chinese cooperation, but building trust is key**
**IIP Digital 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ Merle David Kellerhals Jr., Staff Writer, 25 October, “U.S.-China Relationship Is Evolving, Diplomat Says”, http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2011/10/20111025155930elrem0.8380701.html#ixzz1mmJSAEtd</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington — </span>__Today’s relationship between … and trust will be essential,” he said.__

<span class="Underline">**Environmental leadership like the plan is vital to overall US-China relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rogers 12/8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Will Rogers, Research Associate and Joseph S. Nye Jr. Internship Coordinator, Mr. Rogers’ research focus spans unconventional security challenges, and he has authored or co-authored a range of publications on energy, climate change, environmental cooperation in Asia, and cybersecurity, “Can China and the United States Develop Stronger Military Ties Through Environmental Cooperation?”, http://www.cnas.org/blogs/naturalsecurity/2011/12/can-china-and-united-states-develop-stronger-military-ties-through-env] </span>

<span class="Underline">As </span>policymakers<span class="Underline"> look for opportunities … misperceptions that might otherwise destabilize relations. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Collapsed US-China relations lead to nuclear war and extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wittner 11/28**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lawrence Wittner is Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany. His latest book is "Confronting the Bomb: A Short History of the World Nuclear Disarmament Movement", “COMMENTARY: Is a Nuclear War with China Possible?”, Nov. 28, 2011, http://www.huntingtonnews.net/14446] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While nuclear weapons exist, there remains … </span><span class="Underline">and generating chaos and destruction.</span>

<span class="Underline">**They also solve cyberterror**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Segal 2011**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Adam Segal is the Council on Foreign Relation’s Ira A Lipman senior fellow for counter-terrorism and national security. “The role of cyber security in US-China relations”, June 21, 2011, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/06/21/the-role-of-cyber-security-in-us-china-relations/] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While this flare up is likely to be short lived … </span><span class="Underline">in defining international norms of behaviour.</span>


**Extinction**
**Fritz, 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber … </span>__compromising command and control centres directly.__

<span class="Underline">**Independently, increased monitoring prevents conflict in over the Spratlys**</span>
**Baker and Wiencek 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Baker, John C. (Editor); Wiencek, David G. (Editor). Cooperative Monitoring in the South China Sea : Satellite Imagery, Confidence Building Measures, and the Spratly Islands Disputes]</span>

__Given the prospects for prolonged multinational … with resolving the Spratly Islands disputes.__


**Territorial disputes draw in great powers --- causes World War 3**
**Waldron, 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO)</span>

__MAKING THESE flash-points all the more__ __… Russia, or India, or Japan--or the____U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>

==Plan Text== 

**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS DEVELOPMENT OF EARTH OBSERVATION SYSTEMS BEYOND THE EARTH’S MESOSPHERE.**
==Solvency== 
**The plan solves adaptation:**

**a. <span class="Underline">US leadership enables international mitigation and adaptation planning</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Lewis et. al 10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James A. Lewis, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change: A Report of the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program”, June 2010, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate change will have pervasive and unavoidable … </span><span class="Underline">current capability shortfall is eliminated.</span>


**b. specifically, it enables prediction of resource shortages and migration**
**Dysart ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mary D.- Air War College (Air War College, Air University, “Remote Sensing and Mass Migration Policy Development”, February 16, 2011)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many indicators that mass migration is … starvation that promotes mass migration.</span>

**c. The plan is a pre-requisite to migration solutions**
**Brown 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Oli Brown, Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development, Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate … </span>__better understanding of future forced migration.__

<span class="Underline">**NASA key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Navalgund and Singh 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ranganath R. Navalgund+ and Raghavendra P. Singh, Space Applications Centre, “SPACE OBSERVATION FOR CLIMATE CHANGE STUDIES”, ISPRS Archives XXXVIII-8/W3 Workshop Proceedings: Impact of Climate Change on Agriculture, http://www.isprs.org/proceedings/XXXVIII/8-W3/0_Invited-1/1-RRN.pdf] </span>

The ESSP of NASA addresses unique,<span class="Underline"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">altitude of approximately 705 km. </span>

=Round 2= 
Negative Vs. UC Lab Asteroids with Asteroids and Cloud Computing advantages

Strategy
- jackson vanik (2nr)
- case (2nr)
- T human
- Edleman K
- Earth Science Tradeoff DA
- DOD CP

**Politics of tomorrow engender futurism. When this utopia of the future fails to materialize, those who endanger reproduction are scapegoated**
**Edelman 4**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Lee, professor and chair of the English Department at Tufts University, No Future: Queer Theory and Death Drive. 2004, p. 112-3 MH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Ignore for a moment what demands to be called the transparency of this appeal. … </span>__structuring fantasy that ensures "our collective future."__

**Heteronormativity results in omnicide. The combination of the universal suspicion of Queerness and the genocidal impulse to eradicate it motivates a larger apocalyptic movement to rescue hetero-culture with extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sedgwick 8</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Eve, Professor of English at Duke University, //Epistemology of the Closet//, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">From at least the biblical story of Sodom and Gomorrah, </span>scenarios<span class="Underline"> … ones be opened and opened and opened?</span>

**The alternative is to reject the aff’s worldview in favor of a queer theory based approach. Resistance must be constant, potentials must not be limited, and worldviews must reject the normate.**
**Steyaert 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Doctor in Psychology and Professor in Organizational Psychology at the University of St. Gallen (January 2010, Chris, //Gender, Work and Organization.,// “Queering Space: Heterotopic Life in Derek Jarman’s Garden”, vol. 17, no. 1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The </span><span class="Underline">rich artistic output</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that Jarman realized … </span><span class="Underline">extremely simplified, </span>and<span class="Underline"> extremely </span>poor<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

=Round 3= 
**aff v Juan Diego Idriss and Roberts**

**took out pakistan**
**put in this bad boi**

**Warming’s collapses Tajik stability – spillsover**
<span class="Cite">EN</span>, EurasiaNet News, <span class="Cite">2010</span>, Tajikistan: Climate Change Could Devastate Central Asian Nation – Report, http://www.eurasianet.org/print/53927
Tajikistan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Central Asia's most impoverished country… </span>//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">wrestling over </span>__////__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">dwindling water resources</span>__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in coming decades."</span>

**Independently, satellites key to Tajikistan adaptation strategies**
**Mergili et al. ’11 [**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin Mergili, Christian Kopf, Bernhard Müllebner, and Jean F. Schneider - Institute of Applied Geology, BOKU University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, Austria “Recent changes and ﬂuctuations in the glacial and periglacial environment of Tajikistan”, Geophysical Research Abstracts Vol. 13, EGU2011-8374, 2011 EGU General Assembly 2011, [[http://www.mergili.at/publications/mergili_et_al_2011a.pdf]]]</span>
__Whilst glacier ﬂuctuations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the… </span> __environment of Tajikistan__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Tajik instability quickly escalates central Asian instability and nuclear conflict, drawing in other countries.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Peimani, 2002**—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hooman Peimani, Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for International Cooperation and Security, Senior International Relations consultant with the United Nations in Geneva, PhD in International Relations, with a focus on regional security, 2002, Hooman, Failed Transition, Bleak Future?, p. 122-7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__civil war in Tajikistan showed how… **conflict**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Central Asia or the Caucasus.</span>


=Round 4= 
neg vs GBN KS

Security K (2nr)
Case (2nr)
Edleman Case Turn
T - Beyond
T - Human
Jackson Vanik DA
Aerogel and Asteroid Detection CP

=Round 5= 
== == 
aff vs Edgemont MX
==Advantage One== 


**Oceans are at risk – the timeframe is now**
**BBC 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard Black Environment correspondent, BBC News, “World's oceans in 'shocking' decline”, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-13796479?print=true]</span>

<span class="Underline">mapping and then reducing the input of pollutants including plastics, agricultural fertilisers and human waste </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">making sharp reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of ocean biodiversity causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Craig, 03-</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, (Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">we kill the ocean we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The Black Sea is almost dead, n863 its once-complex and productive ecosystem almost entirely replaced by a monoculture of comb jellies, "starving out fish and dolphins, emptying fishermen's nets, and converting the web of life into brainless, wraith-like blobs of jelly." n864 More importantly, the Black Sea is not necessarily unique.</span>


<span class="Underline">Specifically, ocean Plankton key to all life on earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cribb 2006</span> adjunct professor at University of Technology, Sydney [“Plankton: A Critical Creation,” September 16, http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,20867,20398844-5003900,00.html]
<span class="underline0">. </span>It is perilous to our own survival to ignore this critical creation."
<span class="Underline">Understanding oceans key to solve warming</span>
<span class="Underline">The Economist 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Invisible carbon pumps”, Sept. 9, 2010, http://www.economist.com/node/16990766/print]</span>
<span class="Underline">They want to understand what makes such compounds refractory and whether they can be made more or less so. They also want to know exactly how viral infections stimulate production of the molecules.</span>
**Warming is real and anthropogenic -- causes extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Deibel 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of IR Terry, Prof IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet</span>
==Advantage Two== 
<span class="Underline">Declining fish stocks lead to an East Asian war</span>
<span class="Underline">AFP 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Pascale Trouillaud, “Fading fish stocks driving Asian sea rivalries”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hFpI2JgF3tulNtGlkoW8TQ7jm_sw?docId=CNG.59f2d7e0ea0789c82e01c9fc7bec375b.3d1]</span>
<span class="Underline">but in recent years, Japan's coastguard has been increasingly active, confronting Taiwanese and Chinese boats </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in a similar fashion to the September 7 incident.</span>


**Asian war escalates and leads to extinction**
**Landay, 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Jonathan S. Landay, National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, KNIGHT RIDER NEWS SERVICE, March 10, 2000, p. online</span>



__Pakistan, a conflict between the two could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">Lack of fishing oversight hurts India-Sri Lankan relations</span>
<span class="Underline">BBC 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Pia Chandavarkar, “Conflict brews between Sri Lankan and Indian fishermen”, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-south-asia-12710928?print=true]</span>

<span class="Underline">Experts say there should be stricter enforcement of regulations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when it comes to the fishing season, the number of trawlers and the type of fishing equipment allowed.</span>


<span class="Underline">India-Sri Lankan relations key to preventing a India-China regional conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Atlantic Sentinel 3/26</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Abhijit Iyer-Mitra is a research officer for the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies' Nuclear Security Programme and a contributing analyst for the geostrategic analysis community Wikistrat. He has a Master's degree from Monash University in international relations. His work focuses on foreign policy and strategy issues related to nuclear states. “Eyeing China, India Strains Relations With Sri Lanka”, http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/03/eyeing-china-india-strains-relations-with-sri-lanka/]</span>

which will in turn set in motion a new round of regional balancing in the subcontinent.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">India-China conflict leads to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kahn 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jeremy Kahn, writer for Newsweek, October 19, 2009, “Why India Fears China,” online: http://www.newsweek.com/id/217088</span>
the leadership in Beijing needs "a small military victory<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span>to unify the nation, and India is "a soft targ<span class="underline0">et</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,"</span>


<span class="Underline">The world’s fisheries are at risk now – the plan is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Stuart et. al 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ Venetia Stuart 1*, Trevor Platt 2, and Shubha Sathyendranath2 1Bedford Institute of Oceanography, 2Plymouth Marine Laboratory, “The future of fisheries science in management: a remote-sensing perspective”, ICES Journal of Marine Science (2011), 68(4), 644–650, available online]</span>
Ocean-colour radiometry is the only means of quantifying the base of the marine food chain<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i.e. phytoplankton biomass) </span>on a global scale, providing a synoptic-scale window into the pelagic ecosystem

==Solvency== 

**Plan is key to preventing a gap in ocean data – US technology key**
**Henson et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ S. A. Henson1,*, J. L. Sarmiento1, J. P. Dunne2, L. Bopp3, I. Lima4, S. C. Doney4, J. John2, and C. Beaulieu1 1Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA 2NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, Princeton, NJ, USA 3Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l’Environnement, Gif sur Yvette, France 4Dept. of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, MA, USA *now at: National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, UK, “Detection of anthropogenic climate change in satellite records of ocean chlorophyll and productivity”, Biogeosciences, 7, 621–640, Published: 15 February 2010, http://darchive.mblwhoilibrary.org:8080/bitstream/handle/1912/3208/bg-7-621-2010.pdf?sequence=1]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">moorings </span>__will be necessary to detect the full suite of biological responses to global warming.__

**It solves ocean biology and warming**
**Dierssen 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Heidi M. Dierssen, Department of Marine Sciences/Geography, University of Connecticut, “Perspectives on empirical approaches for ocean color remote sensing of chlorophyll in a changing climate”, Edited by David M. Karl, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, and approved August 24, 2010, PNAS]</span>
__technological approaches that can decipher the multihued ocean and the ever-changing diversity of life within.__

<span class="Underline">Sea WiFS is the best ocean sensor – solves warming</span>
**Henson et. al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ S. A. Henson1,*, J. L. Sarmiento1, J. P. Dunne2, L. Bopp3, I. Lima4, S. C. Doney4, J. John2, and C. Beaulieu1 1Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA 2NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, Princeton, NJ, USA 3Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l’Environnement, Gif sur Yvette, France 4Dept. of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, MA, USA *now at: National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, UK, “Detection of anthropogenic climate change in satellite records of ocean chlorophyll and productivity”, Biogeosciences, 7, 621–640, Published: 15 February 2010, http://darchive.mblwhoilibrary.org:8080/bitstream/handle/1912/3208/bg-7-621-2010.pdf?sequence=1]</span>

The currently observed relationships may prove to be an analogue of the future response to climate change<span class="Underline">;</span>

**It also aids mitigation and adaptation to warming**
**JOC 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The Joint Ocean Commission Initiative is a collaborative effort of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy and Pew Oceans Commission to catalyze ocean policy reform. Led by Admiral James D. Watkins (U.S. Navy, Ret.) and the Honorable Leon E. Panetta, the primary goal of the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative is to accelerate the pace of change that results in meaningful ocean policy reform. “JOINT OCEAN COMMISSION INITIATIVE U.S. OCEAN POLICY REPORT CARD”, http://www.opc.ca.gov/webmaster/ftp/pdf/docs/Documents_Page/Reports/2007_reportcard.pdf</span>
__This support should also extend to major observing initiatives__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> supported by NSF </span>__and remote sensing satellite programs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> supported by NASA’s Earth Science Program.</span>

<span class="Underline">Remote-sensing satellites key to preventing overfishing</span>
<span class="Underline">Stuart et. al 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ Venetia Stuart 1*, Trevor Platt 2, and Shubha Sathyendranath2 1Bedford Institute of Oceanography, 2Plymouth Marine Laboratory, “The future of fisheries science in management: a remote-sensing perspective”, ICES Journal of Marine Science (2011), 68(4), 644–650, available online]</span>
__Rapid detection and operational monitoring__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of toxic dinoflagellate blooms, such as Karenia brevis in the Gulf of Mexico, </span>__is now possible using satellite data__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hu et al., 2005; Cannizzaro et al., 2008). Under certain conditions, blooms of these phytoplankton cells can kill fish, mammals, and other marine organisms, and adversely affect local tourism and commercial shellfish industries</span>

<span class="Underline">SeaWiFS was the most effective ocean-sensing satellite but it’s no longer operational</span>
<span class="Underline">ISN 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Juli Berwald, ISNS Contributor Inside Science News Service, “Ocean-Studying Satellite 'No Longer Recoverable'”, [[http://www.insidescience.org/current-affairs/ocean-studying-satellite-no-longer-recoverable]]</span>
SeaWiFSdatawascollectedby researchers at 132 receiving stations around the globe<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Yoder explained that </span>this provided an unprecedented opportunity for research with a regional focus

==Plan== 

**PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE ITS SEA-VIEWING WIDE FIELD-OF-VIEW SENSOR SATELLITE CAPABILITIES**
=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]