[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC (Wake)== 
===Contention 1. Inherency=== 
The recent transportation bill provided insufficient funding allocations out of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for the purpose of dredging of us ports and harbors.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stabenow et al 8-14 (Debby, letter to Congress from 25 bipartisan senators, “Portman, Brown Join Bipartisan Call for Harbor Funding,” </span>[[http://portman.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/press-releases?ID=259fe2ac-a28f-4407-825c-3a921a831c7e]]<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, August 14, 2012)</span>
As you develop the budget for fiscal year 2014 (FY2014), we want to
AND
look forward to working with you to strengthen our nation’s infrastructure and economy.



This funding shortfall will exacerbate the problems faced by US ports that are currently un-prepared for Panama Canal expansion’s impact on shipping.
Jay <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Landers</span>, contributing editor at Civil Engineering Magazine, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">7/3</span>/12, “U.S. Ports Should Ready for Panama Canal Expansion,” Civil Engineering Magazine, http://www.asce.org/CEMagazine/ArticleNs.aspx?id=25769809931
A U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report says East Coast and Gulf
AND
fleet,” the report states. (Some East and Gulf Coast ports).


**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should mandate full use of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for operating and maintaining the navigation channels of the United States.</span>**


===Contention 2. Trade=== 
US competitiveness on the decline – infrastructure is a key indicator
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hariani 9-5 (Ansuya, economic and investment writer at CNBC, "US Slips Down the Ranks of Global Competitiveness,” September 5, 2012, http://www.cnbc.com/id/48905756)</span>
The United States has slipped further down a global ranking of the world's most competitive
AND
as the most competitive economies, coming in 1st and 2nd, respectively.


Panama canal expansion will overload US infrastructure now-modernization is key to sustain trade and the economy.
**Army Corps of Engineers 2012**
(“U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization Strategy Options for the Future”, 4-2, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Options_for_the_Future_Working_Draft_v1_2012_Apr_01.pdf]], DOA: 7-12-12)
The health of the U.S. economy depends upon the vitality and expansion
AND
” to take advantage of larger vessels that begin to service their trade.


__**Scenario 1: Economy –**__
Light loaded ships kill the seaport industry
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Weakley 08</span> --President of the Lake Carriers' Association (James H. I., Testimony Before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, April 30, 2008, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html) <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CS</span>
The Importance of Dredging Our ports and harbors are gateways to domestic and international trade
AND
required to set aside seats with no passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies.


Port modernization solves the economy-99% of trade and 15,000 jobs for every billion in exports
**Nagle, GMU economics masters, 2012**
(Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation”, 5-7, http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf, DOA: 7-12-12)
For centuries seaports have been an economic lifeline connecting us to the rest of the
AND
cannot accommodate trade growth, population growth, increasing vessel size, etc.


Reliable ports are key to sustainable exports – that solves economic recovery
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Calhoun</span>, Waterways Council Inc. chairman,<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> 2011</span>
(Rick, “Dredging for Prosperity”, Marine Log, August, proquest)
Just like the nation itself, our maritime industry is facing a multitude of challenges
AND
not a cost, in the future of our inland waterways transportation system.


Trade deficit wrecks the economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Weller et al.</span>, Center for American Progress senior fellow, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>
(Christian, “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, 2-9, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html]], DOA: 7-13-12)
The United States faces enormous economic obstacles in the immediate future as it recovers from
AND
of any serious strategy to produce sustained and long-term economic growth.


Decline causes global war.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mead</span> CFR senior fellow, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2009</span>
(Walter, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2-4, [[http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger-0]])
So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work;
AND
the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.


Studies prove.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Royal</span>, director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense,<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> 2010</span>
(Jedediah, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">periods of </span>economic decline<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> may </span>//increase the likelihood of external conflict//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. </span>
First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's
AND
the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown.
Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of
AND
on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are </span>//strong//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//mutually reinforcing//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn </span>//returns the favour//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Moreover, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the presence of a recession tends to </span>//amplify//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the extent to which international and external conflicts </span>//self-reinforce//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> each other</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) </span>
Economic decline<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">been </span>linked with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an </span>//increase in//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the likelihood of </span>//terrorism//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which has the capacity to </span>//spill across borders//and lead to //external tensions//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. “Diversionary theory
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at </span>//systemic, dyadic and national levels//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>
This<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> observation </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is </span>//not contradictory// to<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> other </span>perspectives that link economic interdependence with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a </span>decrease<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the likelihood of external </span>conflict<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. [end page 214] </span>Those studies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and </span>//do not specifically consider//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the occurrence of and conditions created by </span>economic crises<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


And trade deficits cause unsustainable debt – causes global conflict
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Elliot, Guardian economics editor, 2006</span>
(Larry, “America is living beyond its means”, 10-2, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2006/oct/02/usnews.economicdispatch]], DOA: 7-13-12)
Consumers have been using their homes like ATMs - borrowing against rising prices - but
AND
give up global financial hegemony without a fight seems fanciful in the extreme.


Maritime infrastructure key to the economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Juda and Burroughs</span> -- professors in the Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island (Lawrence, Richard, "Dredging Navigational Channels in a Changing Scientific and Regulatory Environment," Journal of maritime Law & Commerce, Vol. 34, No. 2, April, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2004</span> http://www.uritc.org/media/finalreportspdf/536151.pdf) <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CS</span>
Historically. transportation by vessels operating on livers and oceans has been essential to the
AND
more than double. further increasing dependence on the maritime transportation system.5


Maritime investment has a high multiplier effect and facilitate international trade – the funds already exist and federal action is key
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nagle 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., July 8, 2011, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/HMT%20Testimony%20on%20HR104%20to%20T%26I-WRE%208%20July%202011.pdf) CS</span>
Seaports serve as a critical gateway to domestic and international trade, connecting large and
AND
to maintain tl1e nation's ports and harbors with the revenue provided by users.


Seaports affect every other sector of the economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Martin Associates 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- team of economic analysts and transportation consultants evaluating the impacts of additional cargo through seaports (February, "An Economic Analysis: Priority Seaport Projects to Expand Capacity, Enhance Competitiveness, Accelerate Economic Growth, and Create Well-Paying Jobs Statewide," http://www.flaports.org/Assets/312011100301AM_Martin_Associates_Analysis_of_Seaport_Priority_Projects_February_2011.pdf) CS</span>
With respect to jobs, four types of job impacts are measured. These are
AND
firms, equipment and parts suppliers, maintenance and repair services, etc.


__**Scenario 2: Protectionism –**__
Strong US growth is key to promoting free trade–mercantilism risks protectionism and conflict
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Posen 9</span> – Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)
In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might
AND
rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.


Protectionism escalates – causes tit for tat trade war – boosting exports solve
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hufbauer et al.</span>, Peterson Institute senior fellow, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2010</span>
(Gary, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession”, March, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf]], DOA: 7-12-13)
The U.S. unemployment rate more than doubled between the onset of the
AND
an easy pass on future new instances of U.S.¶ protectionism.


Protectionism alone causes global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Spicer, 96 </span>(Michael, economist and member of British Parliament, The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, pg. 121)
“The choice facing the West today is much the same as that which faced
AND
a penny, stability will be at a premium in the years ahead.


Interdependence solves war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Griswold</span>, director of the Cato Institute Center for Trade Policy Studies,<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> 2005</span>
(Daniel, “Peace on Earth? Try Free Trade among Men”, 12-28, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5344]])
As one little-noticed headline on an Associated Press story recently reported, "
AND
acquire them peacefully by trading away what they can produce best at home.


Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction
**Panzner 8** – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.


===Contention 3. Agriculture=== 
Ports and waterways are key to agricultural competitiveness but not ready for post-Panamax ships
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Agriculture.com 8-21 (August 21, 2012, “Aging U.S. ag transportation system needs repair – USB,” http://www.agriculture.com/crops/soybeans/marketing/aging-us-ag-trsptation-system-needs_142-ar25895)</span>
The aging transportation system that has given U.S. farmers a competitive advantage
AND
industries of $145.9 million annually, according to the study.


Dredging is key to sustain agricultural competitiveness-transaction costs are too high without it.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stallman, AFBF president, 2012</span>
(Bob, “US export industry in dire need of port updates”, 3-30, [[http://westernfarmpress.com/government/us-export-industry-dire-need-port-updates?page=2]], DOA: 7-13-12)
It may surprise many that if the planned expansion of the Panama Canal was completed
AND
. Without this investment in infrastructure, we will literally miss the boat.


Plan solves – port investment boosts value of ag products.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Casavant et al.</span>, Washington State economic sciences professor, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>
(Ken, “The Relationship Between U.S. Transport Infrastructure Improvements And International Trade”, [[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]], DOA: 7-13-12)
The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage to ¶ international markets
AND
, but only the frequency of services was found to be statistically significant.


Decline in US ag allows Brazil to fill in
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AP 2008</span>
(Associated Press, “U.S. grain exports snagged by infrastructure delays”, 8-25, [[http://www2.jcfloridan.com/news/2008/aug/25/us_grain_exports_snagged_by_infrastructure_delays-ar-60163/]], DOA: 7-13-12)
Some agribusiness groups worry the bottlenecks could hurt the United States' standing as a global
AND
could drain between $9 billion and $18 billion from the economy.


Specifically, Brazil pushes the US out of the soy export market- causes deforestation
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Martin, Chicago Tribune, 2004</span>
(Andrew, “Brazil threatens U.S. soybean dominance”, 6-13, [[http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2004/06/290689.shtml]], DOA: 7-13-12)
Spurred by new global markets, soaring prices and vast tracts of undeveloped land,
AND
actually works for soybeans . . . but then the damage is done."


Amazon key to prevent extinction- biodiversity, oxygen and disease
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sohn, staff writer, 99</span>
(Pam, "Eight Days in Brazil," Chatanooga Times Free Press (Tennessee), 4-11, lexis)
Inside Brazil's rainforest, the Amazon is a waterworld of life. It nurtures more
AND
rivers are life. And the Amazon is life on a grand scale.


===Contention 4. Solvency=== 
Federal jurisdiction is key - states would have to undo TWO CENTURIES OF SUPREME COURT PRECEDENT. The disconnected and unpredictable nature of State and local planning processes would jeopardize the economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AAPA 2011</span>
(“Getting Back to Basics”, March, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf]], DOA: 7-13-12)
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8 of the United ¶ States Constitution, Congress
AND
critical infrastructure which has languished when dependent upon State and local planning processes.


Federal regulations prevent deepening waterways without a USACE study first. The Army Corps of Engineers will stall any attempt to dredge not authorized by them.
**Allen, 12** - Judson Falknor Professor of Law, University of Washington; Visiting Professor, Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Professor of Maritime Studies, U.S. Coast Guard Academy (Craig, “ Future Ports Scenarios for 21ST Century Port Strategic Planning”, JOURNAL OF TRANSPORTATION LAW, LOGISTICS & POLICY, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID2066661_code334079.pdf?abstractid=1967856&mirid=2]])//DH
To keep pace with growing capacity demands, marine terminals that once averaged 50 acres
AND
completed until 2024—more than a decade after the canal expansion.92


Plan is key to spurring private and local investment in port improvements. Local funds and private investors are tied up in the status quo because only federal authority and funding will allow port projects to proceed.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gibbs 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Subcommittee Chairman (Bob, “Memorandum on the Hearing on “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?”, October 21, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/112th/Water/Water%20Briefing%20Memo%20%20%2010-26-11.pdf)</span>
Infrastructure Investment Investing in ports not only creates jobs during the construction period, but
AND
less than the FY 2011 annualized Continuing Resolution of $2.361.

2A: dping@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org
2N: ehubinger@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org