[[toc]]
=1AC= 
==1AC Wake-Georgetown== 

**Contention one is the Advantage –**
**Levees keep minorities vulnerable and will inevitably fail**
**Associated Press 8/31/12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees By CAIN BURDEAU | Associated Press http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When Hurricane Isaac whirled …that more will follow.</span>

**New Orleans lacks evacuation plans – the carless will be trapped again.**
**Renne et al. 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ//</span>
//__The objective of …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and Williamson 2007).</span>//

//**We should be prepared for the next Katrina – the alternative is generalized accident**//
//**Steinberg 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Philip E., 2008, “What is a City? Rethinking the Urban after Hurricane Katrina,” http://books.google.com/books?id=v1x2cbHvULAC&dq=What+Is+a+City%3F:+Rethinking+the+Urban+After+Hurricane+Katrina&source=gbs_navlinks_s, mat)</span>//
//__The flooding____that …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">taken for granted.</span>//

//**The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Transportation is critical for evacuation**//
//**Wailoo et al. 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A landmark decision …</span>__many inner-city neighborhoods.__//

//**Our fight against this is key to our ethic – the alternative is to endorse violence and permanent war**//
//**Memmi****00 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>//
//__The struggle against racism …the stakes are irresistible.__//

//**There is an obligation for government action on Katrina**//
//**Jorgenson 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Fred Cuny, </span>__…**through policy**__ **__and practice.__**//

//**Federal government is key – other agencies will get overwhelmed and can’t control coordination**//
//**GAO 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The experience of …federal government’s evacuation preparedness.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;"><span style="display: block; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: justify;">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in Louisiana.**</span></span>
//**Contention Two is Ethics –**//
//**Transportation justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES disasters and cannot solve our obligation**//
//**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )</span>//ALo
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__American transportation model … **interim care and treatment**. 194__

**Welcoming the Other is the only way to prevent apocalypse. Their flashpoint ethic claims don’t matter – without overhauling the system the status quo is futile**
**Fasching 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When I began …the third millennium.</span>

**This ethic outweighs consequences**
**Burns 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawrence, Professor in History of Medicine at the King’s University College at the University of Western Ontario, “Identifying concrete ethical demands in the face of the abstract other: Emmanuel Levinas’ pragmatic ethics”, Philosophy Social Criticism March 2008 vol. 34 no. 3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The link between the … </span>__responsibility for the other__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitable and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other**
**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>

__Since ‘it is impossible … it wants to secure.__

**Our primary responsibility is the cultivation of compassion towards Otherness – this is critical to avoiding oppression and endless injustice that plagues isolated societies. That is a precondition for war.**
**Porter 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024 .Accessed: 25/08/2012 09:40</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Also</span>__, I suggest__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (but … also in sociopolitical arenas.</span>

**We should view morals before consequences – we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences**
**Lenman 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53</span>
__A__ __typical morally significant … precisely not be consequentialist.__

**A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen**
**Cuomo 1996**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," … </span>__of war and militarism.__

**Structural harms outweigh**
**Abu-Jamal 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__We live__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, equally immersed, … </span>**__passes away with them.__**

**Even if our politics is impossible, it is still good. Our struggle is necessary to celebrating life. The alternative denies our potential to affirm life and condemns others to unnecessary suffering.**
**May ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Todd May, prof @ Clemson. “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism 2005 Vol 31 nos 5–6 pp. 517–531)</span>
__To change the world …**world up for you.**__

**Ignoring morals justifies Nazi Germany**
**Dimitrijevic 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nenad, associate professor at CEU Political Science Department, “Moral knowledge and mass crime : A critical reading of moral relativism,” Philosophy Social Criticism February 2010 vol. 36 no. 2</span>
__When thinking about perpetrators__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… reads that authenticity exculpates.</span>

**The impact is genocide and nuclear war**
**Fasching 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Living in an age ….</span>__openness to the stranger.__

==1AC Greenhill== 
<<Took out the Steinberg card and replaced it with>>

**Aff spills over**
**Willson 01**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Purpose of planning. The purpose of transportation planning … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is an explicit part of the planning activity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
=2AC Add-On= 
==2AC Add-On - Environment== 
**As long as social hierarchies exist environmental destruction is inevitable**
**Bookchin 93**-Director Emeritus @ the Institute for Social Ecology [Murray, //Environmental Philosophy: From Animal Rights to Radical Ecology//, “What is Social Ecology?” 1993, [[http://dwardmac.pitzer.edu/anarchist_archives/bookchin/socecol.html]], DKP]
__With the rise of hierarchy and human …-hand with the destiny of the nonhuman world.__
=2AC Case= 
==2AC Case - Spillover== 
**Aff spills over**
**Willson 01**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Purpose of planning. The purpose of …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> part of the planning activity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2AC Case - Util Bad== 

**3. Utilitarianism kills agency**
**Odell 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Illinois (Jack, “On Consequentialist Ethics,” Wadsworth, Thomson Learning, Inc., pp. 98-103)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This objection can, as Samuel Scheffler has … of the separateness and nature of persons."</span>

**Util as the starting point destroys morality – leads to racism**
**Primoratz 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Igor Principal Research Fellow @ Center for Applied Philosophy amd Public Ethics, The Philosophical Forum, Volume 36, No. 1, “Civilian Immunity in War”, Spring, p. 44-46) Herm</span>
__Consequentialist thinkers__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">usually present …</span> __consequentialist would settle the matter.__


==2AC Case - AT: Compassion Bad== 
**Compassion is not bad; your evidence is about pity – they are different**
**Tevenar 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gudrun von Tevenar, MA and PhD Birkbeck College, London “NIETZSCHE’S OBJECTIONS TO PITY AND COMPASSION”</span>
When we examine these objections with the pity/… he elevates compassion while Nietzsche denigrates pity.

**Some suffering may be inevitable – but extreme suffering is unjustified**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edelglass, 6</span> (William, Department of Philosophy, Colby College in Maine, “Levinas on Suffering and Compassion,” Sophia, Volume 45, Issue 2, October 2006, pg. 43-59, SpringerLink, pdf, Tashma)
According to Levinas's phenomenology, mild discomfort can be … is the great scandal, for they consider suffering to be evil only when it is both severe and unjustified.
==2AC Case - AT: Impact Defense== 
**Ideology cloaks violence**
**Herbert 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brent, “The Genocidal Mentality, Pt. 1: The 'free market' as genocidal ideology,” http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2003/10/273192.shtml</span>
__That this process is kept … workers of genocide themselves.__

==2AC Case - AT: War Decreasing== 
**Wars increasing**
**Hadley 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor of History TodayKathryn, “Alarming increase in wars,” July, http://www.historytoday.com/blog/2011/07/alarming-increase-wars</span>
New research by Professors Mark … of governments to settle disputes by force.
=2AC CP= 
==2AC CP - EIS== 
**The case is a disad – their focus on process destroys the product – leads to serial policy failure**
**Oenen 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gijs van Oenen is senior lecturer in practical philosophy at the Department of Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Ph.D. from the University of Amsterdam in 1994. Next to the Erasmus University, he has been affiliated with the University of Amsterdam, Webster University Leiden, and the Rotterdam Academy of Architecture and Urban Design. A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political LIfe Gijs Van Oenen. Theory & Event. Baltimore: 2006. Vol. 9, Iss. 2;1 pgs 40.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">32. These employees thus … process of production, or 'provision'.</span>


**2. NEPA’s predictions are haphazard and inaccurate – makes mitigation measures useless**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farber 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Law @ UC-Berkeley Daniel, “ADAPTATION PLANNING AND CLIMATE IMPACT ASSESSMENTS: LEARNING FROM NEPA’S FLAWS,” http://www.law.berkeley.edu/files/NEPA_Adaptation.pdf</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One of NEPA’s major … impacts below the “significance” level</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**5. Perm do the plan and do an EIS – One time consultation means they can’t solve the impact**
**Wasserman 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cheryl, Associate Director for Policy Analysis, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, “ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS” Ninth International Conference on Environmental Compliance and Enforcement 2011, [[http://inece.org/conference/9/proceedings/57_Wasserman.pdf]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These distinctions can be …</span> __implemented as a one-time event.__


<span class="Heading3Char1">8. Major delay</span>
<span class="Heading3Char1">Dill 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD in Urban Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer, “What Influences the Length of Time to Complete NEPA Reviews? An Examination of Highway Projects in Oregon and the Potential for Streamlining,” http://dot.alaska.gov/stwddes/desenviron/assets/pdf/resources/nepareviewtime.pdf</span>
<span class="underline">How long does …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Group data was not explained</span>


==2AC CP - Private== 

**The CP creates capitalist monopolies that assures imperialism**
**Kolanu 12** Abhishek Bose-Kolanu, (Harvard University 2011) Lecture Ten Feb. 18th 02/20/2012 Lecture Ten – Imperialism Concluded http://thinknippon.org/en/lectureten/

I. Returning to Lenin, How do … allowed to return to their homes), war, etc.

**You have it backwards – the government response was bad BECAUSE of the private sector notions of neoliberalism**
**Giroux, 2006** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ

In a May 25, 2001 interview, Grover Norquist, … emergency response plan in the event of a flood.

**Private sector fails for evacuation – multiple reasons**
**Sanchez et al. 09** [Thomas W. Sanchez, expert on transportation, land use, urban and regional planning, and environmental justice, John L. Renne, Associate Professor of Planning and Urban Studies at the University of New Orleans, Pam Jenkins, University of New Orleans, and Robert Peterson] Challenge of Evacuating the Carless in Five Major U.S. Cities Identifying the Key Issues http://planning.uno.edu/docs/The%20Challenge%20of%20Evacuation%20the%20Carless.pdf

Private-sector issues include conﬂicts … availability and ﬂexibility in times of increased demand.

==2AC CP - States== 

States fail in evacuation planning – government reports

GAO 08 GAO-08-544R: United States Government Accountability Office: Washington, DC 20548: April 1, 2008:

Why GAO Did This Study: During the evacuation of New ... transportation needs and develop agreements for emergency use of drivers and vehicles.



States fail in evacuation planning – empirics

National Council on Disabilities 06 The Impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on People with Disabilities: A Look Back and Remaining Challenges Lex Frieden, Chairperson August 3, 2006 http://www.ncd.gov/publications/2006/Aug072006



Often, local evacuation plans failed to adequately provide ... were unable to evacuate from threatened cities.31

=2AC DA= 
==2AC DA - Malthus== 

**Expert consensus that the population is stabilizing.**
**Demeny, PhD and distinguished scholar, 2004**
(Paul, “Population Futures for the Next Three Hundred Years: Soft Landing or Surprises to Come?” September, p. 516)

The dominant voices in that expert consensus … by spreading and ultimately generalized economic affluence.

==2AC DA - Politics== 
**Their uniqueness and impacts are constructed and the logic of the link can be used to deny any good policy – causes serial policy failure**
**Edelman 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">From Art to Politics: How Artistic Creations Shape Political Conceptions By Murray Edelman http://books.google.com/books?id=4lcthzR5SNgC&pg=PA17&lpg=PA1&output=html_text</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gombrich paraphrases an old Chinese …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**often wrong, and especially so in politics.**</span>

**Winners win**
**Blow 9/9/11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Charles, writer for the NYT, Rise of the Fallen? [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/10/opinion/blow-rise-of-the-fallen.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So why does it feel as if we’ve …</span> __middle: you take fire from both sides__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Plan bipartisan**
**Marino 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Marino Co-Chairs Coalition to Aid Hurricane, Flood Victims CONTACT: Renita Fennick 202-870-3386 or renita.fennick@mail.house.gov Sep 8, 2011 http://marino.house.gov/press-release/bipartisan-panel-help-fema-funding</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (Sept. 8, 2011) – U.S. Rep. Tom </span>__… categorized as conservative or liberal.”__

**Political capital isn’t real and their approach breeds violence**
**Ruby-Sachs 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Emma Ruby-SachsLawyer Posted: November 24, 2008, J.D. from the University of Toronto and practices civil litigation with Sutts Strosberg LLP, Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html]]</span>

__<span style="background-color: lime;">The classic approach to </span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a time when consensus is essential.</span>

**No link – Evacuation is popular and pushed by the following groups**
**GAO 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations</span>

__There are many relevant federal … of Metropolitan Planning Organizations.__

==2AC DA - Spending== 
**Depression now due to low government spending. Empirical examples prove**
**Krugman, 2012 – prof of economics at MIT**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Paul http://www.charlotteobserver.com/2012/06/09/3305371/reagan-vs-obama-on-public-spending.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access Date June 19, 2012 Reagan vs. Obama on public spending</span>
__There’s no question that America’s … that’s exactly what America needs.__

**Econ collapse doesn’t cause war**
**Bazzi****and****Blattman****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Department of Economics at University of California San Diego) Christopher (Samuel, assistant professor of political science and economics at Yale University) November “Economic Shocks and Conflict: The (Absence of?) Evidence from Commodity Prices” [[http://www.chrisblattman.com/documents/research/2011.EconomicShocksAndConflict.pdf?9d7bd4]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">VI. Discussion and conclusions A. Implications for our theories of political …</span> **__initially significant results than ambiguous ones__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.20</span>


**The aggressive nature of our economic system forces military expansion – root cause of your impacts**
**Mooers 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Chair of the Department of Politics and School of Public Administration at Ryerson University (Colin, “</span>__The New Imperialists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”,2006, pg 3-4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To answer these questions we must … occurred over the past two decades</span>

==2AC DA - Water Tradeoff== 

2 funding projects for transportation prove no link
Scribner 4/26 – Land-use and Transportation Policy Analyst, Competitive Enterprise Institute (Marc, 26 April 2012, “The Awful Truth about the Highway Bills,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, http://www.openmarket.org/2012/04/26/the-awful-truth-about-the-highway-bills/)
If you ever needed additional proof … the can down the road for 18 months.

Transportation bill just stole money from LUST – proves no impact
NACS, 7/2/12 (NACS, July 2, 2012, “Washington Report: President Obama to Sign Transportation Bill,” http://www.nacsonline.com/NACS/News/Daily/Pages/ND0702121.aspx, Hensel)
WASHINGTON – It was down to the wire on Friday, as both the U.S. House and Senate passed a 2-year extension of federal highway … Trust Fund, which was originally proposed in the Senate bill.

Not enough funding now
Gunderson 3/19 [“Water: Industry Groups Propose U.S. Loan Program” Washington Observer; Pg. 9 Vol. 268 No. 7 3/19/12 lexis] crk
Facing huge water-infrastructure … measure last fall. Bishop said differences between the bills were not insurmountable.

**Spending ignores our obligation**
**Powell 09** Jim Powell, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Why the Government Fails to Maintain Anything October 2009 • Volume: 59 • Issue: 8
The nearly half-million people of New Orleans …, or federal governments wanted responsibility for maintaining the levees.
=2AC K= 
==2AC K - Framework== 
**4. Agency DA – ensures extinction**
**Boggs 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2K CAROL, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1) Herm</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it is a very deceptive and misleading …</span> **__pragmatic, muddling-through modus operandi.__**


==2AC K - Anthro== 
**Dubbing people “anthropocentric” because they didn’t talk about animals makes the creation of an effective environmental movement impossible, and isn’t accurate**
**Lewsi 92 – Professor of Environment**
Martin Lewis professor in the School of the Environment and the Center for International Studies at Duke University. Green Delusions, 1992 p17-18
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nature for Nature’s Sake—And Humanity for … nonanthropocentric dichotomy, see Nor­ton 1987, chapter ir.)</span>

**Plan is a prior question – we solve their impact and they don’t**
**Hwang**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Kyung-sig, Professor in the Department of Philosophy at Seoul National University. “Apology for Environmental Anthropocentrism,” Asian Bioethics in the 21st Century, http://eubios.info/ABC4/abc4304.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The third view, which will be …. </span>**__environment__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and its </span>**__non-human__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> habitants.[5]</span>

**Human-centeredness is key to environmental sustainability**
**Schmidtz 2k – Professor of Philosophy @ Arizona**
David Schmidtz, 2k. Philosophy, University of Arizona, Environmental Ethics, p. 379-408
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Like economic reasoning, ecological …</span> __and priorities are an integral part.__

**Concerns over humans create an a priori environmental consciousness – solves the impact**
**Johnson 96**
Pamela C. Johnson, Development of an Ecological Conscience: Is Ecocentrism a Prerequisite? The Academy of Management Review – peer reviewed journal, July, JSTOR
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>__Anthropocentrism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially when … an ethic or a paradigm really begins.</span>

**Human-centeredness is a pre-requisite to care for the environment**
**Light 2 – Professor of environmental philosophy**
Andrew Light, professor of environmental philosophy and director of the Environmental Conservation Education Program, 2002, Applied Philosophy Group at New York University, METAPHILOSOPHY, v33, n4, July, p. 561
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It should be clear by now …</span> __claims should be open to us.__



==2AC K - Cap== 
**Suboordinating racism to class relations removes any possibility of reform**
**Martinot and Sexton 03- *prof at San Francisco State University**PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steve and Jared, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm//MGD)</span>**
**__Leftist approaches that come as … power relations to which de-racialization is deferred.__**

Marxism remains bound to assimilating the Other
Tahmasebi 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victoria, assistant professor in women's studies/humanities at the University of Toronto Scarborough, “Does Levinas justify or transcend liberalism? Levinas on human Liberation”, Philosophy Social Criticism June 2010 vol. 36 no. 5</span>**

**__Marx, according to Levinas, is right insofar … of the individual in the liberal tradition__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Permutation do both – Our struggle is a resistance to capitalism
Tahmasebi 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victoria, assistant professor in women's studies/humanities at the University of Toronto Scarborough, “Does Levinas justify or transcend liberalism? Levinas on human Liberation”, Philosophy Social Criticism June 2010 vol. 36 no. 5</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Usually the answer to these objections is met … is central to Levinas’ concept of one-for-the-other.</span>**

The representations of cap are wrong – default aff
Gibson-Graham 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – J.K., pen name shared by feminist economic geographers Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political Economy”, pg 2-5)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The End of Capitalism (As </span>__We__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Knew It) </span>__problematize__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s </span>__"…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A long shot perhaps but one worth pursuing.</span>

==2AC K - Race First== 
**Placing other issues before racism is a failed epistemological attempt to evade guilt and responsibility for racial inequities**
**Martinot and Sexton 03- *prof at San Francisco State University**PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steve and Jared, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm//MGD)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In both arenas</span> __a hidden depth, …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> modes of apprehension, and levels of abstraction.</span>**

==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2AC K - Radical Bad</span>== 
The alt is part of the sacred, not the holy – this results in violence
Lantigua 07 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of South Florida (USF) Scholar Commons Graduate School Theses and Dissertations USF Graduate School 2007 Natural Law Ethics: A Comparison of the Theravāda and Thomistic Traditions David Lantigua University of South Florida http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=5097&context=etd</span>**
**__The criteria that Fasching__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and … </span>**__which calls it into question.__
==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2AC K - Reps</span>== 
Permutation do the plan without the representations – ethics are a prior question and the focus on discourse destroys our obligation.
Jovanovic and Wood 4 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spoma and Roy, Communications/Rhetoric Professors at Denver University and U North Carolina, Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004</span>**

**__To consider__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> these opening facts of </span>__communication__ __… of a turn outward toward a communal life.__**

==<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2AC K - Statism</span>== 
Turn --- policy debate solves spectator phenomenon and increases education.

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher C. </span>**Joyner**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Spring 19</span>**99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Professor of International Law in the Government Department at Georgetown University. 5 ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377, Lexis.</span>**
**__Use of the debate can be an …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the United Nations, or assassinating Sad</span>**


Global thinking promotes local action and checks violence
Sachs 92 – Professor of Science @ Penn State **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wolfgang Sachs, Green Movement Activist and co-ed. Development guest Prof Science @ Penn State, 1992, Development Dictionary, p. 109-113</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But recognizing the pitfalls of global eco-managernent … knows about the relativity of all places.</span>**

Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism
Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>**
**__Levinas argues for__ __a place for both …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> becoming more just. </span>__Levinas calls for the liberal state__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Political compassion is key
Porter 06 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024 .Accessed: 25/08/2012 09:40</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">COMPASSIONATE, WISE RESPONSES Third, in addition to … by compassion it compels us to act.</span>**

The removal of the State would leave all Native American open to extermination by racist groups
Fire Rider 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marty, “Why Churchill political agenda is wrong for Indians Tulsa”, Native American Times. Vol. XI, Iss. 13; pg. 8. 3/30/05. Retrieved 7/7/09)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I think we can agree that Churchill's … living conditions on many reservations.</span>
=2AC T= 
==2AC T - Vehicles== 
**CI – transportation infrastructure is moving goods and people – case list**
**Chamber of Commerce 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> TRANSPORTATION PERFORMANCE INDEX: COMPLETE TECHNICAL REPORT Measuring and Benchmarking Infrastructure Performance TRANSPORTATION INDEX LET’S REBUILD AMERICA US Chamber of Commerce September 19, 2010 BK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Dr. Martin Regalia was involved in … </span>__, rail, air, and marine.__

==2AC T - In== 
**CI – In means “within the limits” NOT throughout**
**Cullen, Court of Appeals of Kentucky, 52**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Commissioner, Court of Appeals of Kentucky, November 13, 1952 Riehl et al. V. Kentucky unemployment compensation commission; the judgment is affirmed. Rehearing denied; COMBS, J., and SIMS, C. J., dissenting. </span>[[http://ky.findacase.com/research/wfrmDocViewer.aspx/xq/fac.19521113_0040095.KY.htm/qx|__http://ky.findacase.com/research/wfrmDocViewer.aspx/xq/fac.19521113_0040095.KY.htm/qx__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> BK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We do not find any ambiguity in KRS 341.070(1). … </span>__ascribing such a meaning to the word 'in'__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>