[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
[[media type="custom" key="15673838"]]
==1AC - Lunar Solar Power Bases== 
===Advantage 1: Hegemony=== 
First, Japan is looking at LSP strategy
EcoBusiness 7/12 - Asia Business Magazine (“Is ‘Luna Ring’ the energy solution or looney pipe dream?” 2011, http://www.eco-business.com/news/is-luna-ring-the-energy-solution-or-looney-pipe-dream/)
When Tetsuji Yoshida first unveiled a revolutionary plan …continue to do the research, we think there’s a huge chance this could become reality.”

Second, China is are pursuing U.S. lunar dominance – perception is key.
Vorenberg 08 - Sue Vorenberg,Reported on new science and technology developments across New Mexico. Covered health issues and breaking news on a variety of topics, “Scientists: U.S. power at stake in space race,” Feb 12, 2008, http://www.santafenewmexican.com/Local%20News/Space-Technology-and-Applications-International-Forum-Scientist
The underlying political message of space exploration …remember that exploration almost always leads to greater wealth."

And, the plan is key:
Japanese LSP would ensure resource exploitation and no colonization efforts
Shimizu Corp 11 (“Lunar Solar Power Generation: The Energy Paradigm Shift Opens the Door to a Sustainable Society” June 2011, <http://www.shimz.co.jp/english/theme/dream/lunaring.html>, Shimizu is lead Japanese organization aiming to build LSP on moon)
A shift from economical use of limited resources to the…solar cells from lunar resources and installing them.

And, Lunar dominance is critical to overall leadership---bolsters hard and soft power---now is key
Spudis 10 – Paul D. Spudis, Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, February 9, 2010, “The New Space Race,” online: http://www.spudislunarresources.com/Opinion_Editorial/NewSpaceRace.pdf
In one of his early speeches defending the Apollo program, President John F. Kennedy…we cannot afford to relinquish our foothold in space and abandon the Vision for Space Exploration.
Race is on – China wants the South Pole
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whitehouse 8-9</span> [Dr. David Whitehouse “scientist, writer and broadcaster. He has a doctorate in Astrophysics from Jodrell Bank. Was BBC Science correspondent 1988 - 2006. He has won numerous awards as well as European Internet Journalist of the Year.”; “Returning the Moon”; 8/9/2011; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/dr-david-whitehouse/return-to-the-moon_b_953061.html]]; ahs]
Just as the United States is …solar system exploration plan.

And, Heg solves global power wars and specific conflicts.
Kagan 7 Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have … under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt.

And, transition independently causes extinction
Brzezinski 12 (Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)
For if America falters, the world is unlikely … start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

Scenario 2 - Science Leadership
Energy provided by LSP system is the lynchpin for moon control – first one to build controls future colonization, exploration, science stations, and inter-solar travel
Ignatiev et al 1 -- Professor Aerospace @ Unv Houston ("In-situ Electric Power Generation to Support Solar System Exploration and Colonization: Manufacture of Thin Film Silicon Solar Cells on the Moon" < http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=931705>, Harvard Database, quals for other authors -- Duke - professor @ Colorado School of Mines, Rosenberg - researcher @ In Space Propulsion, Ltd, Makel - owner and engineer @ Makel Engineering, Ltd)
Energy is fundamental to nearly everything … electrical energy needed for the development of space.

And science leadership is key to hegemony and soft power
Coletta 9 (Coletta, Professor of Poli Sci at the U.S. Air Force Academy, 9 – Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] recut from Woodward)
To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly … combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.

And, Heg solves all conflicts
Zhang & Shi 11 (Zhang, researcher at Carnegie, and Shi, consultant for the World Bank, 11 ¬– both MA candidates at Columbia University [January 22, 2011, Yuhan Zhang and Lin Shi, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/] recut from Woodward)
Over the past two decades, no other state … we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

And, the pursuit of hegemony is inevitable—the only question is effectiveness.
Tellis 9 — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 54-55) recut from Woodward
This hegemony is by no means fated to … securing international support for its policies.

And, maintaining a large power differential is key—innovation is the lynchpin of hegemony.
Tellis 9 — Ashley J. Tellis, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues, Research Director of the Strategic Asia program at NBR—the National Bureau of Asian Research, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2009 (“Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States,” Global Asia, Volume 4, Number 1, Available Online at http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf, Accessed 09-13-2011, p. 55-56) recut from Woodward
Second, and equally importantly, who wins in the ensuing struggle … would invariably contribute to the conclusive attainment of these larger encompassing goals.

And science leadership makes hegemony sustainable and solves every global problem
Coletta 9 (Coletta, Professor of Poli Sci at the U.S. Air Force Academy, 9 – Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] recut from Woodward)
On the one hand, leaders of both political parties … loyalty of experts serving on the remote frontiers of science.

LSP is feasible, cheap, and ideal
Criswell 98 (Criswell, David. 1998. Director, Institute for Space Systems Operations, University of Houston
“LUNAR SOLAR POWER SYSTEM FOR ENERGY PROSPERITY WITHIN THE 21ST CENTURY” <http://www.declarepeace.org.uk/captain/murder_inc/site/haarp_patents/LunarPowerProject1.pdf>)
To achieve low unit cost of energy, the lunar portions … key lunar components and production processes.

===Advantage 2: Heliophysics (NEW)=== 
Space Weather poses risk now
Moskowitz 11(<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Clara Moskowitz, Space.com Senior Writer, “U.S. Must Take Space Storm Threat Seriously, Experts Warn” 02/19/2011, <[[http://www.space.com/10906-space-storms-threat.html]]>.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">* Cites – Jane Lubchenco---PhD in Ecology from Harvard, MS in Zoology, BA in Biology, currently under secretary of commerce for oceans and atmosphere and administrator of NOAA, she is "most highly cited" ecologists in the world, Juha-Pekka Luntama---manager of the Space Weather Segment in the Space Situational Awareness Preparatory Program in the ESA, Sir John Beddington--- PhD in Applied Population Biology and Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK Government</span>
Space weather could pose serious problems here … us to be smart and be prepared."

And, it causes complete grid shutdown and collapses the economy--- warnings solve
Hapgood 2k10 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mike, PhD and Professor at Lancaster University and Head of the Space Environmental Group at RAL Space and he is an internationally recognised expert in space weather with over 30 years experience in solar-terrestrial physics, a key part of the science of space weather, has led several major space weather studies for the European Space Agency and served as chair of ESA’s Space Weather Working Team, and is also current chair of the UK solar-terrestrial physics community group, “Space Weather Its impact on Earth and implications for business” Ral Space Report Comissioned by Lloyds 360 Risk Insight, November 4, 2010, pg 16,//)//</span>
__<span style="color: #1a1718;">During magnetic storms, rapid changes in </span>__<span style="color: #1a1718;"> … __of monitoring the potential impact of severe space weather on national infrastructure.__</span>

Grid collapse causes extinction
Rifkin 2 (Alan<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, The founder and president of the Foundation on Economic Trends, Fellow at the Wharton School’s Executive Education Program (Jeremy, The Hydrogen Economy: The Creation of the World-Wide Energy Web and the Redistribution of Power on Earth, p.163-164 ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It is understandable that we would … odorless, </span>__it is an invisible but indispensable' presence in our lives.__

So does economic collapse
Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of **…** the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

Moon bases lead to understanding of geomagnetics – solves space weather warnings
Title et al. 7<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Dr. Alan Title, Lockheed Martin, Dr. Roy Torbert, Dean of College of Engineering and Physical Sciences at University of New Hampshire, Dr. James H. Clemmons, principal director of the Space Science Applications Laboratory at the Aerospace Corporation, Dr. Ed Deluca, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Dr. Sarah Gibson, NCAR/High Altitude Observatory Dr. J. Todd Hoeksema, Professor in Solar Physics at Stanford University Dr. Janet Kozyra, Engineering at University of Michigan Dr. Robert Lin, University of California, Berkeley Dr. David McKay, NASA Johnson Space Center Dr. James Russell, Hampton University Dr. Nathan Schwadron, Boston University Dr. Steven T. Suess, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Dr. Raymond Walker, University of California, Los Angeles Dr. Daniel Winterhalter, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, “</span><span style="color: #070200; font-size: 12px;">Heliophysics Science and the Moon”, September 2007, <</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2010/03/31/Final_508Compliant_MoonRpt.pdf]]>. moxley)</span>
The benefits of the proposed lunar instrumentation .. enabling quasi-continuous monitoring of solar activity.

Scenario Two: Sustainable Colonization
Extinction is inevitable
Austen, 11[Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, [[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]]]
Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. … beings who live off the Earth than on it.”

Studying the lunar regolith is key to determine planet habitability
Title et al. 7 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Alan Title, Lockheed Martin, Dr. Roy Torbert, Dean of College of Engineering and Physical Sciences at University of New Hampshire, Dr. James H. Clemmons, principal director of the Space Science Applications Laboratory at the Aerospace Corporation, Dr. Ed Deluca, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Dr. Sarah Gibson, NCAR/High Altitude Observatory Dr. J. Todd Hoeksema, Professor in Solar Physics at Stanford University Dr. Janet Kozyra, Engineering at University of Michigan Dr. Robert Lin, University of California, Berkeley Dr. David McKay, NASA Johnson Space Center Dr. James Russell, Hampton University Dr. Nathan Schwadron, Boston University Dr. Steven T. Suess, NASA Marshall Space Flight Center Dr. Raymond Walker, University of California, Los Angeles Dr. Daniel Winterhalter, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, “</span><span style="color: #070200; font-size: 10.6667px;">Heliophysics Science and the Moon”, September 2007, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2010/03/31/Final_508Compliant_MoonRpt.pdf]]/moxley)</span>
<span style="color: #141413;">The history of solar-wind and energetic-particle … </span><span style="color: #141413; font-size: 10.6667px;">Porcelli et al., 2002).</span>


Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nick </span>Bostrom<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, </span>2011<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Holding probability constant, risks become … </span>than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.[13]</span>
=Round 2= 
==1NC vs. Lexington CY== 
===T=== 
Interpretation: Its means ownership
Merriam Webster Dictionary. “its”. 2010. http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/its
its- of or relating to it or itself especially as possessor, agent, or object of an action<going to its kennel><a child proud of its first drawings><its final enactment into law>
===Cosmo K=== 
The affirmative’s assumption of the nation-state as the natural unit of politics makes a methodological nationalist agenda inevitable.
Oates 10—Ph.D. candidate in political science at The Ohio State University [March 3, 2010, John Oates, “Methodological Nationalism in International Theory: Rethinking Sovereignty as Constituent Power,” Draft for Research in International Politics]
The Problem of Methodological Nationalism … knowledge about international political life.

National identity prevents an effective response to global problems --- only articulating a shared identity can prevent extinction.
Rogers Smith, 2003. Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University. Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership, p. 166-169.
It is certainly important to oppose such … and Jurgen Habermas all envision.

The alternative is rejection of nationalist identities and discourses --- this opens up space for cosmopolitanism and transforms society.
Gerard Delanty, March 2006. Professor of Sociology in the University of Liverpool, UK. “The cosmopolitan imagination: critical cosmopolitanism and social theory,” The British Journal of Sociology 57.1, Wiley Intersciences.

The micro dimension of cosmopolitanism … resisting both globalization and nationalism.
===Land Rights CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should establish property rights on the moon by recognizing land claims on the moon for all lands that are not within 75 meters of the Apollo 11 site and 225 meters of the Apollo 17 site on the moon.**

Settlement should protect history
SSI 6 (The Space Settlement Institute, <http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/what-conditions-should-the-us-set.html>. apanday)
FAQ #8: What conditions should the .. can find ways to earn enough to become self-sufficient.

CP solves protection of heritage sites.
Spennemann, (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), ‘7, “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 908-909
Visitation. Lunar tourism presents a significant, and unique, issue for heritage management. … to be developed and agreed to.

The Apollo site is uniquely important for the national consciousness over US Space Policy
Spennemann, (Associate Professor in Cultural Heritage Management at Charles Stuart University), ‘7, “Extreme Cultural Tourism: From Antarctica to the Moon”, Annals of Tourism Research, Volume 34, No. 4, pg. 905
The value and significance of Apollo 11 cannot be underestimated… heritage management interface as it relates to the sites on the moon, requires grounding the discussion in its theoretical context.

Historic ontology is the key internal link to questioning philosophical problems inherent in our space policy – only preserving history solves
Sugarman 9 (Jeff Sugarman, PhD in Psychology of Education & MA in Counseling Psychology, Professor of Education at Simon Fraser University, Fellow of the American Psychological Association and American Educational Research Association, past President of Division 24 of the American Psychological Association, and Associate Editor of the Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, 2009, 'Historical ontology and psychological description', Journal Of Theoretical And Philosophical Psychology, Vol. 29, Issue 1, pp. 5-15, PsycARTICLES, EBSCOhost)
A style of reasoning introduces criteria for making judgments of true or… , classified and, often, manipulated, measured, and put to practice.

The globalization of the American ideal annihilates historical and ontological thinking – results in MORE violence and devastation.
Laing 10 – (Tristen, MA in Philosophy from York University, Ph.D. student, “Heidegger on Americanism and Democracy: in what way might the G20 exemplify our lack of a homeland?” http://northernsong.wordpress.com/2010/07/08/heidegger-on-americanism-and-democracy-in-what-way-might-the-g20-exemplify-our-lack-of-a-homeland/)
Devastation is not the physical breaking of people or things, but a malady … of Americanism.

===Elections DA=== 
Obama will win now
Boghani 4/24/2012 [Priyanka Boghani, GlobalPost Breaking News writer, worked for Patch.com and The Huffington Post, and interned at Asia Intelligence, in addition to freelancing and ghostwriting. Having earned her M.S. in Journalism from Boston University with a focus on foreign reporting, she has also written about politics, music and lifestyle, “Obama preferred by young voters over Romney, says poll” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/regions/americas/united-states/120424/obama-preferred-young-voters-over-romney-poll SS]
A new poll found that President Barack Obama leads … who trusted Wall Street.

And, Reid will avoid all budget debates now
Taylor 3-17 [Andrew, BusinessWeek, GOP preps for budget battle with Democrats, Obama; http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-03/D9TIDUO80.htm]
The annual budget debate is conducted …
playing politics with the nation’s budget.

The annual budget debate is conducted …playing politics with the nation’s budget.
Plan circumvents this process – undermines Obama’s “do nothing Congress” message key to reelection
Drucker 2-23 [Jacob, Harvard Political Review, A $1.3 Trillion Hole, http://hpronline.org/united-states/a-1-3-trillion-hole/]
Geithner further admitted that Obama’s budget … compunction playing politics with the nation’s budget.

Reelection key to the CTBT
Schneidmiller 11 [Chris, writer for GSN, "Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty," Global Security Newswire, 7-18, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20110714_9351.php]
The Obama administration is preparing for a … remain frozen in place in Washington.

CTBT cooperation key to solve global proliferation and extinction
Granoff and Tyson 09 [Jonathan, president of the Global Security Initiative, Rhianna is a Sr Officer, “Achieving the Entry-Into-Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty: What UN Member States Can Do Now,” Global Security Initiative, April, http://www.gsinstitute.org/gsi/pubs/04_03_09_CTBT.pdf]
The treaty remains as important today as … living systems upon which it depends.

==2NR== 
T - it's, of, development
=Round 3= 
==1NC vs. Bronx Science BK== 
===T - Substantially Increase=== 
Interpretation – substantial increase is defined as at least $2.6 billion per year.
Alexander, Professor of history, philosophy, and history of science at Stanford, 2008 [Amir Alexander, “President Signs NASA Authorization Bill” October 16th, 2008, [[http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html]] 6-29-11]
On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush signed into law the NASA Authorization Bill … spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.

And Increase is to become greater
American Heritage Dictionary ’2K (The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition Copyright © 2000 by Houghton Mifflin Company [[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/increases]], mc)
Increase: To become greater or larger.

Substantially - Should be used in context.
CJS ’83 (Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 83)
Substantially: A relative and elastic term which should be interpreted in accordance with the context in which it is used.

===Cosmo K=== 
The affirmative’s assumption of the nation-state as the natural unit of politics makes a methodological nationalist agenda inevitable.
Oates 10—Ph.D. candidate in political science at The Ohio State University [March 3, 2010, John Oates, “Methodological Nationalism in International Theory: Rethinking Sovereignty as Constituent Power,” Draft for Research in International Politics]
The Problem of Methodological Nationalism … knowledge about international political life.

National identity prevents an effective response to global problems --- only articulating a shared identity can prevent extinction.
Rogers Smith, 2003. Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University. Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership, p. 166-169.
It is certainly important to oppose such … and Jurgen Habermas all envision.

The alternative is rejection of nationalist identities and discourses --- this opens up space for cosmopolitanism and transforms society.
Gerard Delanty, March 2006. Professor of Sociology in the University of Liverpool, UK. “The cosmopolitan imagination: critical cosmopolitanism and social theory,” The British Journal of Sociology 57.1, Wiley Intersciences.

The micro dimension of cosmopolitanism … resisting both globalization and nationalism.

===Elections DA=== 
Obama will win now
Boghani 4/24/2012 [Priyanka Boghani, GlobalPost Breaking News writer, worked for Patch.com and The Huffington Post, and interned at Asia Intelligence, in addition to freelancing and ghostwriting. Having earned her M.S. in Journalism from Boston University with a focus on foreign reporting, she has also written about politics, music and lifestyle, “Obama preferred by young voters over Romney, says poll” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/regions/americas/united-states/120424/obama-preferred-young-voters-over-romney-poll SS]
A new poll found that President Barack Obama leads … who trusted Wall Street.

And, Reid will avoid all budget debates now
Taylor 3-17 [Andrew, BusinessWeek, GOP preps for budget battle with Democrats, Obama; http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-03/D9TIDUO80.htm]

The annual budget debate is conducted …playing politics with the nation’s budget.
Plan circumvents this process – undermines Obama’s “do nothing Congress” message key to reelection
Drucker 2-23 [Jacob, Harvard Political Review, A $1.3 Trillion Hole, http://hpronline.org/united-states/a-1-3-trillion-hole/]
Geithner further admitted that Obama’s budget … compunction playing politics with the nation’s budget.

Republican push to undercut EPA are held back by Obama– Republican president would pass the bill
Restuccia 11 ("GOP sees looming 2012 elections a key to blocking climate rules" Andrew is a staff writer for the Hill http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/677-e2-wire/141125-gop-sees-looming-2012-elections-as-key-to-blocking-climate-rules)
Republicans are banking on the looming 2012 … home might convince fence-sitting lawmakers to support the bill.

EPA regulates dangerous greenhouse gases - key to solve global warming
Broder 9 (John M., journalist for the New York Times, “E.P.A. Clears Way for Greenhouse Gas Rules,” The New York Times, 4/17/09, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/18/science/earth/18endanger.html]])
WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency on Friday formally declared … cars and trucks to meet the expected tougher emissions standards.

==='Other Transaction' CP=== 
1NC
The United States Federal Government should establish an ‘Other Transaction’ that substantially increases the creation of Operationally Responsive Space by making a military launch infrastructure that includes deployment of small satellites, capacity for launch on demand and rapid satellite reconstitution, constellation architecture, improvement of space situational awareness, preplanned actions, maneuverability and hardening of the satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.

‘Other Transactions’ – or OT’s – are the best way to acquire new technology – they’re legally distinct from USFG contracts
David S. Bloch and James G. McEwen 2, David was formerly a research assistant at the Government Contracts Program and a lawyer in California, James was formerly an intellectual property
attorney with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, and the Naval Air Systems Command specializing in the procurement and management of intellectual property and is now a lawyer in Washington, ““Other Transactions” with Uncle Sam: A Solution to the High-Tech Government Contracting Crisis”, Texas Intellectual Property Law Journal, Vol. 10:195, [[http://www.steinmcewen.com/pdf/Other%20Transactions%20with%20Uncle%20Sam.pdf]]
By the 1990s, events forced the Department of Defense … more attractive option for companies seeking new sources of support for technology research.

Compliance costs and IPR law destroys government-funded R&D
Surya Gablin Gunasekara 11, Assistant Counsel for the Defense Logistics Agency Energy. He received his Juris Doctor cum laude from the University of Mississippi School of Law with a certificate in Remote Sensing, Air and Space Law, ““Other Transaction” Authority: Nasa’s Dynamic Acquisition Instrument For The Commercialization Of Manned Spaceflight Or Cold War Relic?”, [[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/public_contract_law_journal/pclj_vol40_no4_gunasekara.authcheckdam.pdf]]
DARPA discovered that many of the companies developing … the DoD’s FAR Supplement, or most other procurement statutes. 64

===China - China=== 
No US-China War – Economics
Thomas Barnett, 2004, a former Professor and senior military analyst at the U.S. Naval War College, and a top advisor to SecDef Donald Rumsfeld, 2004, ("The Pentagon's New Map: War and Peace In The Twenty-First Century," [[@http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1361719/posts|Why China will never Risk War with the US over Taiwan...]] [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1361719/posts]] accessed 7/3/2011)
(the following excerpt shows why war in the Taiwan strait … a lot of civilizations to clash with, does it

Rising powers like China have an incentive to act peacefully.
Ikenberry, 2011 (G. John Ikenberry is the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. "The Future of the Liberal World Order" [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show]])
Rising powers will discover another reason to embrace … new and more extensive forms of liberal internationalism.

No escalation – China won’t use nuclear weapons
Pike ’04 (John, Global Security, China’s Options in the Taiwan Confrontation, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/taiwan-prc.htm)
China would almost certainly not contemplate … detonations would cause utterly disproportionate destruction.

China is not a genuine threat – faces other powers, no social support, no international capital
Buzan 11 [Barry, Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics, "The Inaugural Kenneth N. Waltz Annual Lecture A World Order Without Superpowers Decentred Globalism," International Relations 4-1, vol. 25 no. 1 3-25]
China certainly presents the most promising all-round … internal or external, necessary for claiming legitimacy as a global superpower.

The plan isn’t key to stopping vulnerability in space – cyberattacks hurt capability.
Donahue, 10 – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])
Another unpredictable driving force that needs … could significantly impact space systems for years.90

===Case - Heg=== 
Space weapons are not key to heg – we’ll develop alternatives easily that are cheaper and less provocative
DeBlois 04, former Adjunct Senior Fellow for Science and Technology at the Council on Foreign Relations [Bruce, “Space Weapons: Crossing the U.S. Rubicon”, Richard L. Garwin, R. Scott Kemp, Jeremy C. Marwell Source: International Security, Vol. 29, No. 2 (Autumn, 2004), pp. 50-84 http://www.jstor.org/stable/4137586, Accessed July 7 2011]
IN SUM: GLOBAL FORCE PROJECTION. Global rapid and denied-access … will provide greater capability sooner and at lower cost.

Victories don't increase hegemony - defeating Osama Bin Laden didn't increase our currently low power projection
Nye ’11 [Dr. Joseph S. Nye, a former US Assistant Secretary of Defense, professor at Harvard, and author of The Future of Power, 5/5/2011, “American power after bin Laden” http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/05/05/american-power-after-bin-laden/]
UNITED KINGDOM – When one state is preponderant in power resources … U.S. will have a preponderant share of power resources forever.

Multipolarity coming now- primacy unsustainable
Edelman 11 (Eric, Distinguished Fellow at Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment, CSBA Online, “Understanding America’s Contested Primacy.” http://www.csbaonline.org/publications/2010/10/understanding-americas-contested-primacy/1/)
In November 2008, the National Intelligence Council released … security decision-makers will face over the next twenty-odd years.

Heg will inevitably collapse – attempting to hold on makes the decline worse
Pape 9 (Robert A. Pape, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, “The Empire Falls”, The National Interest, June 28, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20484)
Clearly, major shifts in the balance of power in … Washington must adopt more realistic foreign commitments.

Heg collapse doesn’t cause global nuclear war – conflicts would be small and managable
Richard Haas (president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former director of policy planning for the Department of State, former vice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, the Sol M. Linowitz visiting professor of international studies at Hamilton College, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies) April 2008 “Ask the Expert: What Comes After Unipolarity?” [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/16063/ask_the_expert.html]]
Does a non polar world increase or reduce … conflicts involving terrorist groups, militias, rogue states, etc.

Retrenchment now is key to stable transition to multipolarity- only way to ensure cooperation which solves climate change, prolif, and the economy
Patrick 2010 (November/December, Stewart, Senior Fellow and Director of the Program on International Institutions and Global Governance at the Council on Foreign Relations, Irresponsible Stakeholders? Subtitle: The Difficulty of Integrating Rising Powers, Foreign Affairs, lexis)
And yet Obama's engagement strategy … to become a more consistent exemplar of multilateral cooperation.
==2NC OT CP== 
===CP Solvency=== 
The CP is faster and attracts the best contractors
Nancy O. Dix et al 3, attorney at Gray Cary specializing in intellectual property and government contract litigation, FEAR AND LOATHING OF FEDERAL CONTRACTING: ARE COMMERCIAL COMPANIES REALLY AFRAID TO DO BUSINESS WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? SHOULD THEY BE?, 33 Pub. Cont. L.J. 5
[*27] The OT provides both the Government and contractors … contractors that traditionally would not, or could not, do business with the Government.

Solves the chilling effect
L. Elaine Halchin 11, Specialist in American National Government at the CRS (Congressional Research Service), “Other Transaction (OT) Authority”, July 15, [[https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34760.pdf]]
A key argument for using OTs is to attract … nontraditional contractors participating in OTs.

Avoids regulations
L. Elaine Halchin 11, Specialist in American National Government at the CRS (Congressional Research Service), “Other Transaction (OT) Authority”, July 15, [[https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34760.pdf]]
The nature of other transaction authority … challenging to evaluate the benefits of OTs.

Specifically onerous procurement standards
L. Elaine Halchin 11, Specialist in American National Government at the CRS (Congressional Research Service), “Other Transaction (OT) Authority”, July 15, [[https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34760.pdf]]
As noted above, OTs are not subject … as to which statutes apply to these other transactions.”92

===2NC Net Benefit=== 
First, regulatory burdens – the chilling effect of compliance costs means the best companies don’t get involved in tech development – that’s Gunasekara – ‘delay’ is a neg argument because only the CP bypasses useless paperwork and disclosure requirements
Nancy O. Dix et al 3, attorney at Gray Cary specializing in intellectual property and government contract litigation, FEAR AND LOATHING OF FEDERAL CONTRACTING: ARE COMMERCIAL COMPANIES REALLY AFRAID TO DO BUSINESS WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? SHOULD THEY BE?, 33 Pub. Cont. L.J. 5
Commercial companies selling information technology goods … segregate government sales from their commercial sales.

Second, IPR – government contracts give the USFG total rights to whatever tech gets developed using agency money – that means tech firms that rely on trade secrets will never work with the DoD
David S. Bloch and James G. McEwen 2, David was formerly a research assistant at the Government Contracts Program and a lawyer in California, James was formerly an intellectual property
attorney with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, and the Naval Air Systems Command specializing in the procurement and management of intellectual property and is now a lawyer in Washington, ““Other Transactions” with Uncle Sam: A Solution to the High-Tech Government Contracting Crisis”, Texas Intellectual Property Law Journal, Vol. 10:195, [[http://www.steinmcewen.com/pdf/Other%20Transactions%20with%20Uncle%20Sam.pdf]]
Ownership of contractor-developed intellectual property is an especially … Department of Defense is inflexible regarding intellectual property.50

===A2 perm do both=== 
Companies would choose the plan – traditional contracts are free cash for doing nothing
Surya Gablin Gunasekara 11, Assistant Counsel for the Defense Logistics Agency Energy. He received his Juris Doctor cum laude from the University of Mississippi School of Law with a certificate in Remote Sensing, Air and Space Law, ““Other Transaction” Authority: Nasa’s Dynamic Acquisition Instrument For The Commercialization Of Manned Spaceflight Or Cold War Relic?”, [[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/public_contract_law_journal/pclj_vol40_no4_gunasekara.authcheckdam.pdf]]
With manned space exploration, however, costs have … expensive way to do something and drag it out as long as possible.” 146

The GAO will audit duplicate contracts and ban the CP
L. Elaine Halchin 11, Specialist in American National Government at the CRS (Congressional Research Service), “Other Transaction (OT) Authority”, July 15, [[https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34760.pdf]]
For some agencies, the use of OT authority … avoid the requirements of procurement statutes and regulations.”129

Doesn’t solve the net benefit – the inclusion of the plan means the government gets total a-priori access to patents and royalties
David S. Bloch and James G. McEwen 2, David was formerly a research assistant at the Government Contracts Program and a lawyer in California, James was formerly an intellectual property
attorney with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, and the Naval Air Systems Command specializing in the procurement and management of intellectual property and is now a lawyer in Washington, ““Other Transactions” with Uncle Sam: A Solution to the High-Tech Government Contracting Crisis”, Texas Intellectual Property Law Journal, Vol. 10:195, [[http://www.steinmcewen.com/pdf/Other%20Transactions%20with%20Uncle%20Sam.pdf]]
One implication of this difference is that (excepting questions of security) the government … to obtain the support it needs to fulfill present and future missions with minimal economic waste.

===A2 perm do cp=== 
“Development” means regulated contracts
NASA Authorization Act 10 (PUBLIC LAW 111-314 [H.R. 3237] DEC. 18, 2010 [SPACE PROGRAMS LAWS CODIFICATION] 111 P.L. 314; 124 Stat. 3328; 2010 Enacted H.R. 3237; 111 Enacted H.R. 3237, proquest Congressional)
a) Definitions.--In this section: (1) Development.-- The term "development" means the phase of a program following the formulation phase and beginning with the approval to proceed to implementation, as defined in the Administration's Procedural Requirements 7120.5c, dated March 22, 2005. (2) Development cost.-- The term "development cost" means the total of all costs, including construction of facilities and civil servant costs, from the period beginning with the approval to proceed to implementation through the achievement of operational readiness, without regard to funding source or management control, for the life of the program. (3) Life-cycle cost.-- The term "life-cycle cost" means the total of the direct, indirect, recurring, and nonrecurring costs, including the construction of facilities and civil servant costs, and other related expenses incurred or estimated to be incurred in the design, development, verification, production, operation, maintenance, support, and retirement of a program over its planned lifespan, without regard to funding source or management control. (4) Major program.-- The term "major program" means an activity approved to proceed to implementation that has an estimated life-cycle cost of more than $ 250,000,000. (b) Conditions for Development.-- (1) In general.-- The Administration shall not enter into a contract for the development of a major program unless the Administrator determines that-- (A) the technical, cost, and schedule risks of the program are clearly identified and the program has developed a plan to manage those risks; (B) the technologies required for the program have been demonstrated in a relevant laboratory or test environment; and (C) the program complies with all relevant policies, regulations, and directives of the Administration.

Evaluate the link probabilistically – historically all space development projects have used cost-plus contracts
Mahoney 10 (Bob, served as a spaceflight instructor at the Johnson Space Center and is now a freelance writer, “Prognosticating NASA’s future”, The Space Review, March 29, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1594/1]])
Keep in mind, however, that folks touting … from Mercury through the US components of the ISS.

‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership
Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005, http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

The USFG has no direct regulatory ownership of the CP’s transaction
SOSSEC Consortium 12, consortium of government military contractors – the award of an Other Transactions Agreement (OTA) by the US Army (ARDEC) recognizes the Consortium as the provider of R&D for Homeland Defense programs at ARDEC for the next five years, “What is an OTA?”, [[http://www.sossecconsortium.com/otacma.cfm]]
An other transaction (OT) is a special vehicle … are examples of three statutes that do not apply to OTs.

Our interpretation is most precise
Douglas F. Brent 10, attorney, June 2, 2010, “Reply Brief on Threshold Issues of Cricket Communications, Inc.,” online: [[http://psc.ky.gov/PSCSCF/2010%20cases/2010-00131/20100602_Crickets_Reply_Brief_on_Threshold_Issues.PDF]]
AT&T also argues that Merger Commitment 7.4 only permits … agreement with AT&T (or whether such agreement has been extended).

Normal means is procurement – ‘other transactions’ like the SAA are separately authorized
DOT 8, Department of Transportation, “Administrative Requirements for Other Transactions”, July 3, [[http://www.dot.gov/ost/m60/grant/zappxi.htm]]
PURPOSE. This Appendix provides departmental guidance for implementing Sections 3015 … that are mutually acceptable to all affected parties.

===A2 perm do cp – chart!!!=== 
Here’s the list of regulations that apply to the aff but not to the CP – they can impact turn any of these:
L. Elaine Halchin 11, Specialist in American National Government at the CRS (Congressional Research Service), “Other Transaction (OT) Authority”, July 15, [[https://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34760.pdf]]
==2NR== 
OT CP
=Round 4= 
==New Aff: 1AC - Project 1986== 
===Plan Text=== 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should launch STS-51-L in the summer of 1986.

===Contention 1: The History=== 
3, 2, 1, And LIFTOFF of the 25th Space Shuttle mission. It has cleared the tower. Challenger now heading downrange. Engines begin to throttle down now to 94%. Will go down to 65% shortly. 3 engines running normally. Velocity – 2257 feet per second. Downrange distance 3 nautical miles. Roger, go with throttle up. 1 minute 15 seconds. Looks like a couple of the solid rocket boosters blew away from the side of the shuttle in an explosion. Obviously a major malfunction.

This IS NOT your history class. Go back to 1986 – Space Shuttle Challenger just exploded. A fury of fire after liftoff, it signaled a turning point in the American space program – 7 dead, who knows of the cause, the New York Times broadcasted.
NYT 1-29-86 [Abstract, By WILLIAM J. BROAD, Special to the New York Times (The New York Times); National Desk January 29, 1986, Wednesday Late City Final Edition, Section A, Page 1, Column 1, 2123 words; “THE SHUTTLE EXPLODES: 6 IN CREW AND HIGH-SCHOOL TEACHER ARE KILLED 74 SECONDS AFTER LIFTOFF”; 1/29/86; [[http://www.nytimes.com/1986/01/29/us/shuttle-explodes-6-crew-high-school-teacher-are-killed-74-seconds-after-liftoff.html?ref=spaceshuttle]]; Boyce]
The space shuttle Challenger exploded in a ball of fire … on the external fuel tank might have been a factor.

The night before launch was organizational failure – NASA’s flawed paradigm led to disaster.
Hall 3 [Joseph Lorenzo Hall, Astronomy Department/School of Information Management and Systems, 2008 Ph.D., School of Information; University of California, Berkeley 2005 M.I.M.S., School of Information; University of California, Berkeley 2003 M.A., Astrophysics; University of California, Berkeley 2000 B.S., Physics and Astronomy; Northern Arizona University, Astronomy Department, University of California at Berkeley, Space Policy Journal pages 240-241; “Columbia and Challenger: organizational failure at NASA”; [[http://josephhall.org/papers/nasa.pdf]]; Boyce]
3.2. The night before launch There was an ongoing debate … proof over engineering intuition is also readily apparent.

The solution was right in front of us.
NYT 9-22-86 [New York Times by William J. Broad; “NASA Had Solution to Key Flaw in Rocket When Shuttle Exploded”; 9/22/1986 front page; [[http://www.challenger-o-ring.com/realstory.php]]; Boyce]
The key solution proposed by the space agency … the capture feature, was already being systematically if slowly applied.

The thought process was groupthink – lots of people evaluating something with no real thought to the alternatives and other viewpoints – this is part of the failure.
Esser 98 [Dr. James K.Esser Professor Industrial/Organizational Psychology, Lamar Universit; “Alive and Well after 25 Years: A Review of Groupthink Research”; ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN DECISION PROCESSES Vol. 73, Nos. 2/3, February/March, pp. 116–141, 1998 ARTICLE NO. OB982758; [[http://liquidbriefing.com/twiki/pub/Dev/RefEsser1998/alive_and_well_after_25_years.pdf]]; Boyce]
NASA’s decision to launch the Challenger space shuttle has been the subject of … conclusion that groupthink was involved in the Challenger decision.

The fetish of groupthink made decision-making flawed and suspect to inevitable failure. Only a counterfactual approach like ours can solve future problems and disasters – that’s the impact.
Kray and Galinsky 3 [Laura J. Kray a,* and Adam D. Galinsky b a Haas School of Business, University of California, USA b Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University, USA, Study from Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 91 (2003) 69–81; “The debiasing e<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ect of counterfactual mind-sets: Increasing the search for disconﬁrmatory information in group decisions”; 2003; [[http://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu/faculty/galinsky/kray%20galinsky%20obhdp%20counterfactual%20primes%20and%20group%20decision%20making.pdf]]; Boyce]
Like the NASA o<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬃ</span>cials who convened with engineers and contractors … as is vividly illustrated with the Space Shuttle Challenger example.

Additionally, structural factors involving the group mindset contributed to the problem.
Winsor 88 [D.A. Winsor; “Communication Failures Contributing to the Challenger
Accident: An Example for Technical Communicators”; IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PROFESSIONAL COMMUNICATION, VOL. 3 I , NO 3 , SEPTEMBER 1988 101; [[http://people.emich.edu/jsteichma/winsor_challenger.pdf]]; Boyce]
Looking at prelaunch miscommunieations, then several factors … as the Challenger accident demonstrates.

===Contention 2: The Flaw=== 
What if it was different? What if Challenger had never exploded and the men and women looked there made a different decision? It was too cold that day. Challenger was the turning point of the American space program – if it had launched normally, the fabric that made our launching community so great would have not disappeared. We would not have fallen behind. We would not have experienced the collective grief of the day – all due to that one launch into the horizon over Florida.

Challenger’s effects were crucial – all of these could have been prevented.
Hastings 1 [Daniel Hastings, MIT Engineering Systems Division Notes; Professor of Engineering Systems and Aeronautics and Astronautics Dean for Undergraduate Education Ph.D. and an S.M, from MIT in Aeronautics and Astronautics in 1980 and 1978, Published for lecture/class notes as part of a unit at [[http://msl1.mit.edu/ESD10/]]; 10/17/2011; [[http://msl1.mit.edu/ESD10/block4/4.3_-_Challenger.pdf]]; Boyce]
The Challenger disaster struck the national psyche like Sputnik … STS was still in the developmental phase. So much for operational status!

We COULD HAVE changed the disaster – but we did not! A counterfactual approach is best for solving.
Kray and Galinsky 3 [Laura J. Kray a,* and Adam D. Galinsky b a Haas School of Business, University of California, USA b Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University, USA, Study from Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes 91 (2003) 69–81; “The debiasing e<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif';">ﬀ</span>ect of counterfactual mind-sets: Increasing the search for disconﬁrmatory information in group decisions”; 2003; [[http://www.kellogg.northwestern.edu/faculty/galinsky/kray%20galinsky%20obhdp%20counterfactual%20primes%20and%20group%20decision%20making.pdf]]; Boyce]
When the Space Shuttle Challenger launched into … the vast information available to them to make high quality decisions.

Historical ontology is the key internal link to questioning philosophical problems inherent in our space policy – only preserving history solves
Sugarman 9 (Jeff Sugarman, PhD in Psychology of Education & MA in Counseling Psychology, Professor of Education at Simon Fraser University, Fellow of the American Psychological Association and American Educational Research Association, past President of Division 24 of the American Psychological Association, and Associate Editor of the Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, 2009, 'Historical ontology and psychological description', Journal Of Theoretical And Philosophical Psychology, Vol. 29, Issue 1, pp. 5-15, PsycARTICLES, EBSCOhost)
A style of reasoning introduces criteria for making judgments … identified, described, classified and, often, manipulated, measured, and put to practice.

The globalization of the American ideal annihilates historical and ontological thinking – results in MORE violence and devastation.
Laing 10 – (Tristen, MA in Philosophy from York University, Ph.D. student, “Heidegger on Americanism and Democracy: in what way might the G20 exemplify our lack of a homeland?” [[http://northernsong.wordpress.com/2010/07/08/heidegger-on-americanism-and-democracy-in-what-way-might-the-g20-exemplify-our-lack-of-a-homeland/]])
Devastation is not the physical breaking of people or things … is symptomatic of the deep devastation of Americanism.

If we don’t learn from history we’re doomed to repeat it.
Tetlock and Belkin 96 (Philip Tetlock, professor of psychology at University of Pennsylvania, Woodrow Wilson Award for best book published on government, politics, or international affairs and Robert E. Lane Award for best book in political psychology, both from American Political Science Association in 2005, and Aaron Belkin, Associate Professor of Political Science at UC-Santa Barbara, “Counterfactual Thought Experiments in World Politics: Logical, Methodological, and Psychological Perspectives”, p.2)

The ferocity of the skeptics is a bit unnerving. Moreover, they are right that … alternative to an open counterfactual model is a concealed one.

Our unique approach applies counterfactual analysis to the Challenger disaster: a study that asks what is actually wrong with the decision-making we used. This way of revealing the resolution opens up space for challenging the problem that led America to not explore for years.
Lebow 7 [Richard Ned Lebow, James O. Freedman Presidential Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, 2007 Counterfactual Thought Experiments: A Necessary Teaching Tool,” The History Teacher, Volume 40, Number 2, February, http://www.historycooperative.org/journals/ht/40.2/lebow.html]
Counterfactuals can combat the deeply rooted human … role of contingency in key decisions and events.

Our interpretation of fiat: debate is about imagining the enactment of a plan. Within academic debates, there are key branching points in history in which we can fiat counterfactual change for the purpose of comparison and analysis.
Broda-Bahm 95 (Kenneth Broda-Bahm, Assistant Professor and Director of Forensics in the Department of Speech and Mass Communication at Towson State University, “Counterfactual possibilities: constructing counter-to-fact causal claims,” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate 16, 73-85)
Branching Points In finding ways in which the real … given proposition type than the other possibilities.
=Round 5= 
==Anti-Jamming Affirmative== 
Advantage 1 (1:30)
Advantage 1: International Telecommunication Union
Support for anti-jamming measures now – enforcement key
ScreenAfrica 12 [ScreenAfrica, Broadcast, film, commercial, new media and technology news, Editorial News > Satellite and Transmission News, “ITU to tackle satellite jamming” 22 Feb 2012, http://www.screenafrica.com/page/news/satellite-and-signal-technology/1180182-ITU-to-tackle-satellite-jamming SS]
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) has applauded an International Telecommunication Union (ITU) move to allow governments to take "necessary actions" when foreign powers deliberately interfere with satellite transmissions. Member states approved a revision of the ITU regulations that will give governments greater powers to counter the practice. The decision was taken at this year’s ITU World Radio Communications Conference (WRC-12), after individual broadcasters, the EBU, human rights groups and media freedom campaigners called for tougher action on the growing problem. The change, adopted by 165 member states of the WRC (out of 193 ITU members), was to article 15.21 of the regulations, which now reads, "If an administration has information of an infringement of the Constitution, the Convention or the Radio Regulations (in particular Article 45 of the Constitution and No. 15.1 of the Radio Regulations) committed by a station under its jurisdiction, the administration shall ascertain the facts and take the necessary actions." Ingrid Deltenre, Director General of EBU said, “From the EBU's point of view, this decision taken by so many countries participating in WRC-12 is a first important step in the right direction. Now we expect ITU services to be vigilant and ready to react to deliberate attempts to obstruct the free flow of information." Numerous complaints have been lodged with the ITU about international satellite TV programmes in Persian and Arabic, carried mainly on Eutelsat and Arabsat satellites. The interference practice, which has increased since September 2011, prevented audiences from receiving TV and radio programmes of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), Radio France Internationale, Deutsche Welle (Germany), and RFE/RL, Inc.'s Radio Farda. Radio Netherlands Worldwide (RNW), Voice of America (VOA), and the EBU added their voices to the demands for stricter anti-jamming measures.

Plan facilitates enforcement – ensures cooperation between nations
Broadcast Engineering 12 [Broadcast Engrineering, “EBU backs ITU move against hostile satellite jamming” Feb 27, 2012 12:45 PM http://broadcastengineering.com/news/EBU-ITU-satellite-jamming/#ixzz1qg9pO83A SS]
The decision at the conference, which is held every few years by the ITU to set international standards and policy for radio spectrum, was taken after four, top European broadcasters teamed up with the U.S. Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) in calling for tougher action against states that jam transmission, particularly Iran. At the start of WRC-12 a month ago, the BBG, BBC, Deutsche Welle (DW), Audiovisuel Extérieur de la France (AEF) and Radio Netherlands Worldwide (RNW) issued a joint statement noting jamming of satellite uplinks was contrary to Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states: “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.” The exact nature of the proposed remedies is not yet clear, but the ITU has called for governments, broadcasters and satellite operators to work much more closely together in tackling the problem and exert greater pressure on the rogue states that still engage in uplink jamming. The move was welcomed by human rights groups and media freedom campaigners, including the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran (ICHRI), which pointed out, however, that this was just the beginning. The ICHRI suggested that a good first step would be for the European satellite operating companies such as Eutelsat to be more active in stopping Iran from jamming signals, and threatening to cease allowing the country’s state-owned broadcasters from using their capacity unimpeded if they do not cooperate. Iran has not responded officially to the WRC-12 decision, but appears to be aware that the game may be ending for uplink jamming, since its police have been seen removing unapproved satellite from houses. In this way, they are blocking foreign broadcasts downstream in case they fail to jam them further out. The primary focus appears to be on legal measures at this stage, and pressure on countries such as China that may be supplying jamming equipment. But, there are technical measures that can be deployed to counter jamming, with a number of these already standing by ready to be applied if need be. These include algorithms that enable the relevant signal to jump around in frequency and dodge the jamming transmission. To be sure they will work against current jamming techniques, these measures need extensive testing, and ongoing re-evaluation, for this is in effect an arms race. At any rate, the tougher stance being taken by the ITU was welcomed by the European Broadcast Union (EBU). “From the EBU's point of view, this decision taken by so many countries participating in WRC-12 is a first important step in the right direction,” EBU Director General Ingrid Deltenre said. “Now, we expect ITU services to be vigilant and ready to react to deliberate attempts to obstruct the free flow of information."

ITU decision was the first step – US action key to cooperation and effectiveness
Gharib 2/22/2012 [Ali Gharib, national security reporter for ThinkProgress.org covering U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East, particularly Iran. Before joining the Center for American Progress, he wrote and blogged for Inter Press Service as well as the Columbia Journalism Review’s website, ForeignPolicy.com, and AlterNet, among other outlets. Ali holds a B.A. in philosophy from Boston College, a M.S. in philosophy and public policy from the London School of Economics, and an M.S. in journalism from Columbia University, February 22, 2012, “Iran Cracks Down On Satellite Dishes As U.N. Body Bans Signal Jamming” http://thinkprogress.org/security/2012/02/22/430637/iran-satellite-jamming/ SS]
But the vote itself is only the start of enforcing the decision, ICHRI notes. In a December Wall Street Journal opinion piece, ICHRI spokesman Hadi Ghaemi and Shirin Ebadi, a Nobel Laureate and Iranian human rights lawyer, laid out how companies like the European group Eutelsat allow Iran to block signals for channels like BBC Persian but at the same time allow Iranian state-owned operators to use their satellites unencumbered. They wrote: The European Union and U.S. should take immediate and decisive action requiring that these satellite companies end their cooperation with Iranian censors. … Without pressure on these companies from both sides of Atlantic, the people of Iran will remain cut off from the outside world. In today’s ICHRI statement, Ghaemi said: “The ITU has now made Iran’s legal obligations perfectly clear. But the international community, including telecommunications corporations like Eutelsat, needs to sustain its efforts to make sure Iran stops jamming satellite broadcasts.”

Lack of coop risks multiple earth and space wars.
Huntley et al 10 – US Naval Postgraduate School [Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” Space Policy, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Pages 25-38//edlee]
4.3. Scenario A: “Back to the Future” - “Back to the Future” describes a future characterized by a high degree of technological breakthrough wherein power is projected by rule of force. In 2009 global tensions create an atmosphere where nations increasingly test new defensive technology. In 2010 India explodes a satellite out of Low-Earth orbit (LEO) and the USA tests an orbital interceptor. Gazprom invests $1 billion in the development of a nanotechnology research lab. There is also a steady erosion of Outer Space Treaty norms and limits to protect commerce. By 2013 NATO is dissolved, seen as no longer relevant. The EU alliance shifts towards defending its borders. Human spaceflight continues, in an increasingly competitive atmosphere. The USA launches Aries I, with a crew. Generation Y seems more interested in environmental issues than space. By 2014 many nations begin deploying anti-satellite (ASAT) technology. In 2015 China, the USA, India and Russia field rival ASATs in orbit, as LEO orbits are at risk from debris. Commercial interests give up on LEO and eye the Moon, which fuels the race to establish a presence there. An increasingly protectionist USA leaves the World Trade Organization (WTO). In response, China recalls its debts from the USA. Meanwhile, European and Asian growth continues and, in 2018, a Chinese factory begins production of bulk carbon nanotubes. The USA and China race to produce the first space elevator. The civil lunar programs move forward. By 2020 a joint US–EU team land on and ‘reclaim’ the Moon. Lunar bases and the space elevator are established, as resources continue to dwindle on earth. Rival moon bases compete over mining rights and orbital lasers promote a defensive arms race in space. NATO is replaced by a new European Defence Organization (EDO). A coalition emerges, including the USA, the EU and India, in opposition to Russia and China. By 2025 African nations reject the influence of major powers and, thanks to the proliferation of technology, become space powers in their own right. In 2028 major powers withdraw from the Outer Space Treaty. Saudi oil fields are now officially empty, and the lunar colonies' major export is solar power. Military bases on the Moon defend against rival solar farms. A Russian–Chinese coalition attacks the space elevator, which essentially strands the US–EU lunar colonies and seriously impairs energy availability on Earth. The UN breaks down and is dismantled. Treaties are ignored and tensions increase. The earth is highly militarized, and conflict occurs both on earth and in space. The future is tense, dark and uncertain. By 2030 Californian scientists claim to have discovered an alleged artificial signal from outer space. The signal offers the possibility of a new reason for hope. 4.4. Group observations on Scenario A In this scenario technological breakthroughs add to the rule of force rather than providing a means for international cooperation. States come together and drift apart based on their perceived interests. The group acknowledged the importance of “giving teeth” to the Outer Space Treaty and other treaties in order to enhance means of overcoming conflict in the future. However, treaties do erode when states or blocs of states perceive these no longer to serve their interests. Further, norms of the Outer Space Treaty may be eroded through the commercialization of space, rather than by conflict and militarization. The group recognized that cooperation is possible on some, but not all, issues. Following the Chinese recent ASAT test there were efforts to clarify the situation for all parties concerned and prevent repeat occurrences. This suggests in part that the UN breaking down is not realistic, and that there might be greater political will to move in a collaborative direction than the scenario suggests. The competition for resources breaks down liberal order and traps states into a situation where the rule of force is perceived as the only option. In this scenario democracies are not less likely to militarize. Politicians bear the responsibility for the implications of their actions. NASA remains a remnant of the Cold War, while the EU space plan is geared towards a broader array of concerns. The voice of civil society is then squashed. (There is also an option of a scenario where, instead of the EU, China becomes a regional champion, bringing other regional leaders like Brazil under a new transparent framework.) The rule of force is also justified for the protection of investments. An entity such as the US-Soviet Standing Consultative Commission (SCC), which was convened when one side thought there had been a violation by the other, might be helpful. Driving factors come not necessarily from the bottom or the top, but rather from mid-level officials who can promote a discussion on the consequences of space weaponization. It is important to reach out to the non-space community, to help a wider constituency relate to the issues and take greater interest. Getting away from focusing on big, one-off, prestige programs is one way to elicit such an interest. Technological innovation, while important, does not necessarily lead to an advantage for the country of origin. Rapid dissemination of technologies among a certain community can affect the security of the countries of origin. For this reason, if weaponization of space is inevitable, countries should operate as much as possible in a collaborative, transparent fashion. This suggests the utility of a global regime controlling the technology. Cooperative leadership among youth could be developed to help ensure future cooperation. This group underlines the importance of reaching young people today in order to stimulate awareness in the next generation of leaders of the negative spirals that could develop. All parties must be made aware that it is in no one's interest to attack each other's satellites; both sides need the information and need freedom to access space. A non-interference pact could be developed, which might name the kinds of weapons not to be used.

Advantage 2

Advantage 2 is Arab Spring

Jammin has increased – ITU fails without tech
Forrester 12 [Chris Forrester, one of the most experienced and highly regarded journalists in the field. His insight and analysis, particularly in the satellite and pay-TV arena, is highly prized. He has written for all the major business journals in the sector as well as several national newspapers, 3/15/2012, “Jamming is hurting satellite industry badly”, Advanced Television, http://advanced-television.com/index.php/2012/03/15/jamming-is-hurting-satellite-industry-badly/ SS]
Hamza explained that as the ‘Arab Spring’ series of revolutions and local protests have happened the jamming has intensified. “The recent events in Libya have added to the problems, but jamming now occurs from Bahrain, Syria and, of course, Iran. We have pro-government jammers, as well as opposition jammers. Last week we had jamming from a very sophisticated source, and generating 30 dBW of signal power which obliterates everything else on a transponder. These people seem determined to act as satellite operators, judging what will – and will not – be carried by an operator. Indeed, this case was quite ridiculous because even after we had removed all of the channels from a transponder, which is a huge headache for us and our customers, the jamming continued onto an empty transponder!” “These are huge problems, and there’s no real sign of the problem going away. We have some measures we can take including complaining to the Arab League, and the ITU. The ITU, it seems, has no teeth so perhaps it will need the United Nations to act, because it is truly damaging in every way. The problem is not helped by the jamming frequently coming from one Arab country against another.”

Plan stops jamming which hurt Arab Spring efforts
Klingler 3/28/2012 [Dave Klinger, Dave Klingler studied astrophysics and pure mathematics and computer science at the University of New Mexico. He never has figured out which subject he likes the best. He writes and programs in Albuquerque, ars technica, “Satellite-jamming becoming a big problem in the Middle East and North Africa” http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2012/03/satellite-jamming-becoming-a-big-problem-in-the-middle-east.ars?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=rss SS]
The Arab Spring has had yet another consequence—satellite jamming, and the practice is serious enough to threaten the satellite operators' business. Two operators, Arabsat and Nilesat, complained about the jamming in the Satellite 2012 Conference in Washington, D.C. last week, according to an article in Space News. Arabsat is a 21-country consortium that provides broadcasting to over 100 countries in the Middle East, Africa, and Europe. Nilesat is an Egypt-based operator that carries 415 channels to the Middle East and North Africa. The satellites also provide broadband, telephone, and VSAT service. Jamming and rounding up satellite dishes has become a common practice for governments wishing to limit unfavorable coverage in their own (or sometimes other people's) countries. An article in February at BroadcastEngineering.com detailed the decision of the United Nations' International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to condemn satellite jamming in Iran as "contrary to Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights." That decision came after complaints by several broadcasters, including the BBC, Radio Netherlands Worldwide, and Voice of America. Last year Reuters reported that jamming of satellite phones and other services occurred in Libya during the uprising. But the issue may not be limited to Middle East governments. The Islamic Republic of Iran's Broadcasting English website claimed in January that British technicians were jamming Iranian broadcasts on Eutelsat's Hotbird sat network from a site in Bahrain. If that's accurate, it may suggest that European governments think it's acceptable to jam European companies' satellites as long as the broadcasts themselves aren't European. Any attempt to jam satellites in the United States is generally tracked and stopped quickly by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which strictly enforces the licensing and sharing of US radio spectrum by the many parties that use it. Off-frequency or overpowered broadcasts in the United States generally result in an instant broadcaster shutdown and possible fines or jail terms. In Europe, a new pan-European regulatory body entitled the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC) began meeting in 2010. BEREC has broad authority for licensing and enforcement and has, from all reports, even broader and stricter powers. Unfortunately for customers or companies seeking redress, there is no pan-African or pan-Middle Eastern authority available to prevent illegal transmissions. There are, instead, cooperative agreements between the countries that make up each body of operators. The countries that are doing the jamming are member states of this consortium, and at times they have even jammed their own broadcasts. In a few cases, according to the Space News article, the operators have been able to identify the antennas doing the jamming using Google Earth. Notifying the governments involved is ineffective, and there is at present no practical way to stop the jammers. The two companies were hesitant to name the culprits, but countries that have been mentioned elsewhere in the press include Libya, Syria, Bahrain, Iraq, and Iran. Syria and Bahrain, in particular, have ongoing domestic problems right now.

Scenario 1 is Syria
Syrian civil war inev – linear risk.
Bilal Y. Saab, Visiting Fellow at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies (CNS) at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, et al. 3/13/2012 (Chen Kane is Senior Research Associate at CNS, and Leonard Spector is Deputy Director of CNS. CNS's Javier Serrat provided research assistance. http://mideast.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/03/13/assads_toxic_assets)
Should regional governments and Western powers commit to turning the FSA into an organized and well-armed military force that is capable of both defending its members and launching offensive attacks against Syrian forces, Assad's ability to crack down on the opposition will likely be degraded. But there is also the risk that such a strategy could not only fail but also have unintended consequences for the Syrian people and the region. Indeed, while a stronger FSA could put a dent in the repression campaign of the Syrian government (especially if the rebels receive anti-tank weaponry, improvised explosive devices, and modern communications equipment necessary for effective command and control), further militarization of the Syrian uprising is also likely to deepen and intensify domestic conflict, possibly causing a full-blown civil war. Facing what could be a more potent foe, the Syrian government will show no restraint in its application of military force, seeking to crush all forms of armed resistance once and for all. In the event that Syria slides into full-blown civil war, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq, and Lebanon will bear the brunt of the spillover. Specifically, these countries will have to absorb hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing the violence inside Syria (hundreds, if not thousands, have already arrived in Turkey and Lebanon), an outcome, which could cause heavy economic burdens and much societal stress for the host countries. Increasing sectarian bloodshed in Syria will also encourage al Qaeda and other radical Islamist actors to expand their involvement inside the country for the purpose of saving their Sunni co-religionists and establishing a base of operations in the region.

The longer the conflict is drawn out, the more likely it escalates.
Al-ho-mayed 1/19/2012 Tariq Alhomayed is the Editor-in-Chief of Asharq Al-Awsat 01/19/2012 (The cost of the fall of al-Assad http://www.asharq-e.com/news.asp?section=2&id=28152)
The press report that was published by our newspaper yesterday, in cooperation with the British newspaper “The Guardian”, addressed this question, conveying a number of viewpoints attributed to different personalities inside Syria, including Alawites, reflecting the almost unanimous conviction that it will be difficult for the al-Assad regime to continue, but everyone fears the price of its downfall. This is compounded by the al-Assad regime’s current state of weakness, with the Muslim Brotherhood recently rejecting an Iranian offer to grant the Brotherhood representation in government on the condition that al-Assad remains in power! Why would al-Assad do that if he was in a position of strength, especially as he described the Muslim Brotherhood in his latest speech as the “Devil’s Brotherhood”? Hence, concerns over the potential costs of the fall of al-Assad must be reflected at the regional and international levels. Delaying the fall of al-Assad will entail subsequent security and economic complications, not only for Syria, but for the region as a whole. Of course, in the event of al-Assad remaining in power, the price will also be high for the Syrians and the region, specifically Turkey, as at this point al-Assad would be far more dangerous than Saddam Hussein following the liberation of Kuwait. Therefore, simply expecting, or waiting for the al-Assad regime to collapse on its own, without any significant effort to accelerate this process from our regional states and the international community, means that the interests and stability of the region and world at large is being put at risk. This is not to mention the dangers that threaten Syria itself, and also the complications of the post al-Assad phase. Waiting for the “expected” moment of collapse is dangerous, and costly, for everyone. The true cost of delaying the fall of al-Assad is that the Syrian crisis will deepen, and a civil war will be fuelled. As one Western diplomat said in “The Guardian”: “if you shoot at people for months, you shouldn't be surprised when they start shooting back”, and this is what is happening in Syria today. Prolonging the life of the al-Assad regime also means further complicating the solutions for the post al-Assad phase, and it is inevitable that those who will pay the highest price will be the Turks, not the Iraqis. The Baghdad regime, for example, has concerns regarding the Syrian revolution because it could awaken the Sunni giant, particularly as the Iraqi regime is a sectarian system par excellence. Whilst the Turks are concerned about the future of Syria following the revolution, out of fear for their commercial interests and security. Ankara is not a sectarian regime, it is a democracy, and the survival of the ruling elite there depends on providing economic accomplishments to the Turkish people, rather than sectarian promises cloaked in deceptive slogans such as “resistance” and so on, along the lines of what is repeated by the al-Assad regime and Iran’s allies in the region. Hence, it is dangerous to merely wait for the fall of the al-Assad regime without doing anything to accelerate this process. This is what those concerned with the stability of our region must be aware of, whether we are talking about the Saudis or the Turks, or even the Europeans and the Americans

US solves Syrian instability – jamming kills communication
Klapper 12 [U.S. Ramps up Aid to Syrian Opposition, TIME, By AP / Bradley Klapper Friday, Apr. 13, 2012 Read more: http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,2111968,00.html#ixzz1swBzy1ZD SS]
Obama spoke about potential aid options last month during a lengthy private meeting with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in South Korea. Officials said at the time that Washington and its allies were considering providing Syrian rebels with communication, medical and other "non-lethal" aid.They've declined to publicly outline what might be encompassed by non-lethal aid. That could include clothing, bullet-proof vests, radios, night vision goggles or other objects Washington provided last year to Libyan rebels as they fought a civil war to overthrow dictator Moammar Gadhafi. But officials stressed the majority of the aid was medical and communications supplies.The U.S. officials said the package Obama approved will be given to Syria's "non-violent, political opposition" and not to armed rebels. It's unclear if any monitoring will take place.Washington had been providing satellite phones, SIM cards and other such equipment already, officials acknowledged, but said the level of assistance will now be increased. No figures for the value of the assistance were immediately available.The administration views the aid as critical to supporting the U.S. policy to "hasten Assad's fall and push forward with a stable and democratic transition," an official said.The U.S. and its partners have been trying to help the opposition organize itself and maintain better communications with members outside the country, so that they can coalesce around a common post-Assad vision for Syria. Radio assistance and the like could also help opposition members evade Syrian regime attacks.The Obama administration believes the Syrian government, with Iran's help, is actively jamming private communications and satellite Arabic television networks in an aggressive campaign to cut off anti-government organizers from the outside world.

Democractic Syria key to Arab Spring and civil war
Chougule 12 [Pratik Chougule, served at the State Department in the George W. Bush Administration, The Commentator, March 7, 2012, “Assad’s ouster is not enough: Syrian democracy is needed to turn the Arab Spring in America’s favour” http://www.thecommentator.com/article/968/assad_s_ouster_is_not_enough_syrian_democracy_is_needed_to_turn_the_arab_spring_in_america_s_favour SS]
Over a year into the Arab Spring, there is little guarantee that the tumult in the Middle East will break in the United States’ favour. Four regimes have fallen – all were secular and aligned, to varying degrees, with the US against terrorism. Islamism and instability are among the postwar victors. Should the monarchy fall in Bahrain, a new Shiite government may send the Fifth Fleet packing, shifting the balance of power toward Iran. Nor has the Arab Spring rocked the Iranian regime even amid crippling international sanctions and sabotage operations. But the unrest in Syria provides a strategic opening for the US. By supporting democracy in Syria, the US can oust a key regional adversary while shifting the momentum of the Arab Spring behind the region’s liberal reformers. In Syria, the US faces little dilemma between its values and interests. The Assad regime is not only a butcher of its own people, it stands as a cornerstone of the region’s authoritarian order and as a threat to core US interests. If Iran is the “most active state sponsor of terrorism,” Syria is its loyal, if craftier, sidekick. Assad’s ouster alone would be a strategic gain for the US. But if the US hopes to turn the regime’s fall into a broader paradigm shift in the Arab Spring, the dictator’s fall alone will not be enough. The aftermath must result in the emergence of an inclusive, liberal democracy. The likely alternatives to Syrian democracy would have negative reverberations throughout the region. Civil war could create vacuums for al Qaeda and other terrorist networks; sectarian violence would ignite proxy warfare between Shiites and Sunnis, which could spill into the Levant and the Gulf; a Sunni-dominated regime could encourage reprisals against the Alawis, Kurds, Christians, and other stakeholders in the previous regime; a coup – “Assadism without Assad” – would neither appease the protests nor shift the balance of power against the Iran. All of these scenarios would deter democrats throughout the region who would calculate that the status quo is more tolerable than the destabilizing alternatives. Globally, backers of the current regional order – Iran, Russia and China – would be vindicated at the expense of the US and its broad but tenuous coalition of reformist partners.
Democratization in Syria will require a comprehensive US strategy involving four facets – military, political, regional, and international. Now that President Obama has called for Assad’s ouster, American credibility demands that the US help the opposition topple the regime. As an initial step, the US should provide the opposition with humanitarian relief and defensive materiel such as anti-tank weapons that would not pose a risk to Israel, Iraq, or other US allies should they fall into the wrong hands. If the stalemate continues, the US should enforce a no-fly zone, protect fortified safe havens near the Turkish and Jordanian borders, and wage an air campaign against regime military targets. Heavier arms should be transferred only to like-minded rebel groups, which appear to comprise elements of the Free Syrian Army and some other independent brigades. The US can lay the groundwork for a stable political transition by promoting a broad-based government-in-exile. Managing sectarian politics will pose the greatest challenge given Assad’s strategy of coopting Shiites, Christians, and Kurds against the Sunni majority. The Syrian National Council has made progress in functioning as a legitimate authority, but it remains too beholden to Turkish and Saudi-backed Islamists. Kurdish leaders – who have formed their own council in Erbil – appear close to a breakthrough with the SNC, but face pressure from Iran not to join the opposition. In addition to the Kurds, the US should condition recognition of the SNC on its integrating Alawis, Christian groups, military defectors, and liberals. The SNC also must resolve lingering differences with the FSA and deliver services to the population in liberated areas.
The US should help facilitate an inclusive coalition through energetic diplomacy as well as through covert and psychological operations. US leadership is needed to prevent the Syrian crisis from turning into a regional war. The US should introduce and escalate punitive measures against Iran and Hezbollah so long as they continue to meddle in Syria. And, while coalescing a “Friends of Syria” group, the US should pressure regional allies like Saudi Arabia and Qatar on two fronts. First, they should increase oil production to keep Syrian instability from harming the global market. Second, their assistance must not be allocated disproportionately to Islamist and sectarian elements of the opposition. Lastly, the US should build international consensus behind Syrian democracy. US diplomacy should focus not only on securing a broad coalition behind intervention, but also on formulating a strategic, adequately resourced plan for nation-building after the regime’s overthrow. Several non-aligned movement democracies have broken with past tradition to vote in favour of intervention at the UN. The US should exploit this potential alliance with rising democracies by working with these states to stabilize the Syrian economy and put Damascus on a path to democratic consolidation. With regards to Russia and China, the US should deliver a clear ultimatum: while the US will accommodate reasonable economic interests, continued meddling on behalf of the Assad regime will be met with a campaign to isolate Moscow and Beijing in coordination with the broad coalition of states that sided with the US on the last UN vote. In the Syrian tragedy is an opportunity. By promoting a political transition in Syria, the US can help put the Arab Spring back on track toward democratic consolidation in the greater Middle East.

Democracy key to prevent extinction – multiple scenarios
Diamond 95, (Diamond, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s,” October 1995. Available from the World Wide Web at: http://www.carnegie.org/sub/pubs/deadly/dia95_01.html, accessed 2/20/04)
OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. LESSONS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY The experience of this century offers important lessons. Countries that govern themselves in a truly democratic fashion do not go to war with one another. They do not aggress against their neighbors to aggrandize themselves or glorify their leaders. Democratic governments do not ethnically "cleanse" their own populations, and they are much less likely to face ethnic insurgency. Democracies do not sponsor terrorism against one another. They do not build weapons of mass destruction to use on or to threaten one another. Democratic countries form more reliable, open, and enduring trading partnerships. In the long run they offer better and more stable climates for investment. They are more environmentally responsible because they must answer to their own citizens, who organize to protest the destruction of their environments. They are better bets to honor international treaties since they value legal obligations and because their openness makes it much more difficult to breach agreements in secret. Precisely because, within their own borders, they respect competition, civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law, democracies are the only reliable foundation on which a new world order of
international security and prosperity can be built.

US engagement with the opposition strengthens local movements and fractures Assad’s key bases of support
Fly et al 11/8/2011
Jamie M. Fly (FPI), Robert Zarate (FPI), Mark Dubowitz (FDD), Reuel Marc Gerecht (FDD), Tony Badran (FDD), Ammar Abdulhamid (FDD), and John Hannah (FDD). The Foundation for Defense of Democracies (FDD) for the Syrian Working Group. November 8, 2011. “Towards a Post-Assad Syria: Options for the United States and Like-Minded Nations to Further Assist the Anti-Regime Syrian Opposition”. http://www.defenddemocracy.org/media-hit/towards-a-post-assad-syria/
Washington should also work with partners should help opposition groups to establish television and radio broadcasting capability into Syria capable of circumventing the Assad regime’s signal jamming. They should also supply encryption-enabled portable communications equipment to the protest movement within Syria. As Gerecht and Dubowitz wrote in the Washington Post, Syrian opposition groups could greatly benefit from a cross-border wireless Internet zone that stretches to the Syrian city of Aleppo, a commercial center roughly 20 miles from Turkey. Such a communications network will require Turkish acquiescence—no longer unthinkable—and financial resources (depending on its range and speed, between $50 and $200 million). However, if Washington is unwilling to foot this bill alone, the Obama administration should consider tapping into existing Pentagon and CIA covert funds, and soliciting the remainder from our European and Arab partners. In addition, the United States and European Union should immediately take actions against telecommunications companies that have reportedly assisted the Assad regime’s efforts to monitor and intercept the communications of the Syrian opposition. For example, Bloomberg News reported on November 3, 2011, that an Italian-based company doing just that:

Engagement reduces transition violence – no sectarianism now
Amir Taheri, Columnist for the Wall Street Journal and the NY Post, 11/1/2011 (http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.10715/pub_detail.asp)
When they started protest marches, Syrians were asking for change within the regime. Six weeks and hundreds of deaths later, they are asking for regime change. Last week, which culminated in what was designated as a "Friday of Rage", provided indicators to where Syria might be heading. President Bashar al-Assad's decision to "crush", rather than try to accommodate, the opposition has backfired. Initially limited to urban youths, the uprising has found an echo in all sections of society. Syrians are shocked by images of what Assad's special forces are doing in the "occupied" cities of Deraa and Douma. There, human corpses remain in the streets in violation of the Islamic rule that the dead be buried within 24 hours. Until the "invasion" of Deraa and Douma, several political, ethnic and religious groups had kept their distance from the uprising. Now, almost everyone is on board. Kurds, accounting for 15 per cent of the population, are calling for an end to one-party rule. Having watched the uprising with a mixture of envy and fascination, the Muslim Brotherhood has decided to join. The Druze minority have organised "solidarity marches with the martyrs". Other communities, including Assyrian Christians and Turkomans, are also abandoning the regime. A petition signed by dozens of writers and academics from all ethnic groups, shows that the uprising is above sectarian considerations Until Friday, the country's two most populous cities, Aleppo and Damascus, the capital, had remained relatively calm. That changed with marchers defying the tanks in both places. Even the Arab Socialist Ba'ath (Renaissance) Party, officially ruling the country, may no longer be as solid. Over 300 party members have resigned and publicly condemned the crackdown. Party offices in several cities, including Banias and Latakia, have been closed. Several trade unions, theoretically controlled by the Ba'ath party, have indicated support for the uprising with token stoppages in the oil and transport sectors. The army's loyalty, too, may no longer be certain. One unit of the elite 4th Armored Division has reportedly refused deployment in Muazzamiyah, a suburb of Damascus. The army and the regime's armed security forces lack the manpower to occupy major cities for a long time. Soon, they could face problems of rotation. In any case, this is an army of recruits who may end up sympathising with protesters they are ordered to kill. In Banias people are offering flowers and sweets to soldiers and asking why should recruits kill their people for a distant despot? Believing that the days of the regime are numbered, some Syrians have started leaving the country. Hundreds have fled to Lebanon and Iraq. A stream of refugees, mostly from the Haruran area, continues to Jordan. Money is also flowing away. A Lebanese banker with ties to the Assads tells us that "some cowards" are sending their money to "safer places". Unable to propose a political solution, Assad has boxed himself into a corner. He must either fight his way out or prepare to die there. This is bad news for Syria which may face weeks, if not months, of deadly struggle. The Western powers could help shorten that period. They should call for Assad's departure as they did in the cases of Ben Ali in Tunisia, Mubarak in Egypt and Gaddafi in Libya. The British Foreign Office is deluding itself by insisting that Assad is a closet reformer who ought to be helped against unspecified hardliners. William Hague would do well to side with the pro-democracy movement against a despotic regime whose sell-by date is long past. A message that Assad cannot hope to massacre his people and then return to privileged relations with the West would persuade many to abandon him. Although dominated by the Alawite sect to which Assad belongs, the army's officer corps includes many from the Sunni majority who might not be prepared to massacre their co-religionists. Even Defence Minister Ali Habib and Chief of Staff Davoud Rajha might switch sides. As the biggest foreign investor and aid donor, the European Union wields immense influence in Damascus, especially among the 100 or so wealthy Sunni families who help keep the economy afloat. A suspension of Syria's privileged trade relations with the EU would exert immense pressure. Nato should intercede with Turkey to stop arms shipments from Iran to Syria. Last month, the Turks stopped one shipment, as a token gesture. However, the mullahs continue to send arms via Turkey to Syria and the Lebanese Hizbollah. The UN should provide relief for refugees arriving in Iraq and Jordan. An unknown number of wounded people need to be evacuated from Deraa. Despite Russia's dilatory shenanigans, the West should continue to press for UN help to stop the massacre of civilians in Syria. Aid organisations should be helped to deploy to provide medical, and other services. Western democracies must also open a dialogue with the Syrian opposition to understand its grievances and assess its aspirations. Finally, the West should be patient and not expect a regime that has ruled by terror for half a century to evaporate in a few day

Draws in the entire region.
Stewart M. Patrick, Senior Fellow and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Program on International Institutions and Global Governance, 1/19/2012 (http://blogs.cfr.org/patrick/2012/01/19/breaking-the-un-deadlock-on-syria/)
Without UN support, an intervention is unlikely, and would be unadvisable. Assad has a “firm hold” on the loyalties of Iran and Hezbollah, the Shiite power in Lebanon. A fierce conflict in Syria could pull one or both into the fight. With U.S.-Iranian tensions at new highs, and having exhausted public support for war in the Middle East, the Obama administration seems unlikely to use armed force in Syria without the Council’s imprimatur, even alongside a “coalition of the willing.” (China and Russia have no doubt factored this into their opposition to UNSC action.) But if the unrest in Syria boils over, the consequences would be significant. The nation borders Israel, Iraq and Jordan, NATO ally Turkey, and finally Lebanon, which could see its precarious stability threatened by civil war in Syria. Reporting from near the Syrian-Lebanese border, NPR correspondent Deborah Amos describes how the conflict is dividing Syria’s Alawite sect of Shiite Islam and its Sunni Muslims, raising the specter of a sectarian war that threatens regional stability.

Quick opposition victory in Syria reduces Saudi threat perceptions of Iran.
F. Gregory Gause, Political Science @ UVM, Specialist in Saudi Affairs, 12/9/2011 (http://www.cfr.org/saudi-arabia/saudis-new-mideast-challenges/p26760)
There's certainly rhetorical support. The Saudi newspapers are full of op-eds strongly supporting the opposition and castigating Assad and the Syrian government. What the Saudi government is doing is not clear on the ground. My assumption is that if members of the opposition in Syria want money and support and even guns, they can probably get them from Saudi Arabia. I don't have any evidence that there's a big Saudi push in that direction, but I wouldn't be surprised if it were happening. Publicly, the Saudis have, in effect, called for Assad to step down and have supported the Arab League resolutions against him. As I said, the Saudi press, which in many ways reflects government thinking, is even more harsh in the way they talk about Assad and the Syrian government. For the Saudis, Syria is a really interesting point because almost every place that the Saudis have contested with the Iranians for influence in the past five or six years, they've lost. Lebanon, Iraq, even in Palestine. You know, the Saudis tried to get Hamas and Fatah together back in '07 and it fell apart, and Hamas took over Gaza and the Iranians have been much more supportive of Hamas. So I think for the Saudis, a regime change in Damascus would be a real blow to Iranian power and influence in the Arab world.

Key to reducing sectarian drum-beating – the impact is extremism, a direct Iran/Saudi military clash, and broader Middle East war.
F. Gregory Gause, Political Science @ UVM, Specialist in Saudi Affairs, 12/9/2011 (http://www.cfr.org/saudi-arabia/saudis-new-mideast-challenges/p26760)
So the Saudis cannot turn salafism on and off as their interests dictate, either at home or abroad. It would be a mistake to attribute salafi political strength in Egypt or Pakistan, for example, simply to Saudi machinations that, with enough U.S. pressure, can be brought to an end. But one element in current Saudi regional foreign policy that Riyadh can and should be discouraged from pursuing is strengthening sectarian identities and sectarian confrontation. The Saudis have made a conscious decision to increase the salience of the Sunni-Shia divide since the beginning of the Arab upheavals, to increase support for their allies, and to isolate Iran and its allies in the Arab world. The Saudi press depicted events in Bahrain as part of an Iranian effort to encourage Shia revolutions throughout the Arab world.45 The mufti of Saudi Arabia, in response to a question about Iranian influence in the Gulf, said that “their whole history indicates their malice and hatred toward Islam and toward the Sunnis.”46 Sectarianism is an enduring reality in the eastern Arab world; the Saudis did not invent it. But they are clearly trying to stoke it now. Raising the sectarian temperature around the region might help the Saudis mobilize domestic and regional support against Iran and its allies in the short term, but only at a serious cost. It makes movement toward compromise and effective governance in Iraq even less likely than it is now. It encourages conflict and discourages dialogue in Bahrain, where the U.S. 5th Fleet has its headquarters. It pushes Arab Shia politicians and groups toward Iran, offering the Iranians even more influence in Arab countries with large Shia populations. Sectarian tensions also help fuel salafi jihadist extremism, represented by al-Qaeda, because anti-Shiism is a strong element of the salafi extremist agenda. In such an atmosphere of regional tension, crises are more likely to spin out of control, increasing the chances of renewed civil wars in a number of Arab states and of direct Arab-Iranian confrontation that could drag the United States into another armed conflict in the Middle East

Middle East conflict escalates and goes nuclear
Russell 09 James A. Russell, senior lecturer in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East,” Institut Français des Relations Internationales, Spring 2009, http://www.analyst-network.com/articles/141/StrategicStabilityReconsideredProspectsforEscalationandNuclearWarintheMiddleEast.pdf
Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various factors: (1) asymmetric interests in the bargaining framework that can introduce unpredictable behavior from actors; (2) the presence of non-state actors that introduce unpredictability into relationships between the antagonists; (3) incompatible assumptions about the structure of the deterrent relationship that makes the bargaining framework strategically unstable; (4) perceptions by Israel and the United States that its window of opportunity for military action is closing, which could prompt a preventive attack; (5) the prospect that Iran’s response to pre-emptive attacks could involve unconventional weapons, which could prompt escalation by Israel and/or the United States; (6) the lack of a communications framework to build trust and cooperation among framework participants. These systemic weaknesses in the coercive bargaining framework all suggest that escalation by any the parties could happen either on purpose or as a result of miscalculation or the pressures of wartime circumstance. Given these factors, it is disturbingly easy to imagine scenarios under which a conflict could quickly escalate in which the regional antagonists would consider the use of chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons. It would be a mistake to believe the nuclear taboo can somehow magically keep nuclear weapons from being used in the context of an unstable strategic framework. Systemic asymmetries between actors in fact suggest a certain increase in the probability of war – a war in which escalation could happen quickly and from a variety of participants. Once such a war starts, events would likely develop a momentum all their own and decision-making would consequently be shaped in unpredictable ways. The international community must take this possibility seriously, and muster every tool at its disposal to prevent such an outcome, which would be an unprecedented disaster for the peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.

Doesn’t need to draw in great powers – Israel alone has enough to cause extinction.
Casey ’6 — Mingus Casey, Scoop News, 10-9-6 “On the History of Nuclear Arms, the Arms trade, and one very small very vulnerable very beautiful planet” online
The ecological effects of nuclear testing are massive, with the vast majority of nuclear armed states (USA, Russia, England, France, China, Israel) possessing more than enough nuclear weapons to send the world into a fatal nuclear winter, the only countries in the world with out sufficient nuclear weapons to do so at this point in time are North Korea (1-15), Pakistan (40-50) and India (40-50). If only two hundred nuclear weapons are used (a successful first strike scenario against a first world nation), that is sufficient to release enough dust and radioactive fallout into the atmosphere to reduce the worlds temperature by five to twenty degrees centigrade. Two hundred nukes is unrealistically low, a lot more would be used. If this happens, humanity and the majority of vegetable animal and sea life will probably die out.

Advantage 3 is Iran

Iranian public currently supports nuclear program – plan shifts public opinion against it – forcing iran to denuclearize
Elkind 12 [David J. Elkind, Citing Sadjadpour senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment. He joined Carnegie after four years as the chief Iran analyst at the International Crisis Group based in Washington and Tehran, where he conducted dozens of interviews with senior Iranian officials, and hundreds with Iranian intellectuals, clerics, dissidents, paramilitaries, businessmen, students, activists, and youth, among others. He is a regular contributor to BBC TV and radio, CNN, National Public Radio, PBS NewsHour, and Al-Jazeera, and has appeared on the Today Show, Charlie Rose, Fox News Sunday, and the Colbert Report, among others. He contributes regularly to publications such as the Economist, Washington Post, New York Times, International Herald Tribune, and Foreign Policy. Frequently called upon to brief U.S., EU, and Asian officials about Middle Eastern affairs, he regularly testifies before Congress, has lectured at Harvard, Princeton, and Stanford Universities, and has been the recipient of numerous academic awards, including a Fulbright scholarship. In 2007 Sadjadpour was named a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in Davos. He is a board member of the Banu Foundation, an organization dedicated to assisting grassroots organizations that are empowering women worldwide. He has lived in Latin America, Europe, and the Middle East. Areas of Expertise Iranian politics and society; Iran's nuclear program; Iranian foreign policy; Iran's role in Iraq; U.S. Foreign policy toward the Middle East; Democracy, economic development, and reform in the Middle East; Security in the Middle East; Comparative politics; Terrorism Education B.A., University of Michigan; M.A., Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International StudiesAPR 6, 2012, “Recap: High Stakes and Hard Choices: US Policy on Iran” Center for Strategic and International Studies, http://csis.org/blog/recap-high-stakes-and-hard-choices-us-policy-iran SS]
Sadjadpour’s testimony took a close look at the outlook of the Iranian regime. In his view, the regime is defined by its opposition to the United States, which precludes the possibility of negotiations from the outset. Sanctions are also a non-starter, since Supreme Leader Khamenei understands pressure as proof of hostility toward Iran. Khamenei has taken lessons from recent history which predisposes him toward proliferation. After the fall of Col. Muamar Qaddaffi in Libya, he determined that negotiating away one’s unconventional weapons programs is an invitation for regime change. By contrast, Pakistan attained credibility and reengagement with the international community after its nuclear test. Sadjadpour noted that Khamenei is not the sole supporter of the nuclear program in Iran, and, in fact, the program enjoys broad support across Iran’s leadership and population as a whole. Anticipating the failure of both sanctions and diplomacy, Sadjadpour suggested an alternative path: expanding the Persian-language Voice of America service. To him, the United States and Iran are already in a conflict and the Supreme Leader is unlikely to change his position because resistance to America and Israel are defining pillars of the regime. Expanded Voice of America service would break the regime’s monopoly on media, and hence its control over information about the nuclear program, creating domestic pressure for the regime to resume talks or even abandon its ambition for weapons. Similar to the role of satellite television in the Arab Spring, Sadjadpour argued that this media service could cleave popular support from the nuclear program from the regime.

Nuclear Iran leads to rapid proliferation and nuclear terrorism – extinction
Kurtz 06, senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center. (Stanley, “Our Fallout-Shelter Future”, National Review Online, 8/28, http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWU4MDMwNmU5MTI5NGYzN2FmODg5NmYyMWQ4YjM3OTU)

Proliferation optimists, on the other hand, see reasons for hope in the record of nuclear peace during the Cold War. While granting the risks, proliferation optimists point out that the very horror of the nuclear option tends, in practice, to keep the peace. Without choosing between hawkish proliferation pessimists and dovish proliferation optimists, Rosen simply asks how we ought to act in a post-proliferation world.  Rosen assumes (rightly I believe) that proliferation is unlikely to stop with Iran. Once Iran gets the bomb, Turkey and Saudi Arabia are likely to develop their own nuclear weapons, for self-protection, and so as not to allow Iran to take de facto cultural-political control of the Muslim world. (I think you’ve got to at least add Egypt to this list.) With three, four, or more nuclear states in the Muslim Middle East, what becomes of deterrence?  A key to deterrence during the Cold War was our ability to know who had hit whom. With a small number of geographically separated nuclear states, and with the big opponents training satellites and specialized advance-guard radar emplacements on each other, it was relatively easy to know where a missile had come from. But what if a nuclear missile is launched at the United States from somewhere in a fully nuclearized Middle East, in the middle of a war in which, say, Saudi Arabia and Iran are already lobbing conventional missiles at one another? Would we know who had attacked us? Could we actually drop a retaliatory nuclear bomb on someone without being absolutely certain? And as Rosen asks, What if the nuclear blow was delivered against us by an airplane or a cruise missile? It might be almost impossible to trace the attack back to its source with certainty, especially in the midst of an ongoing conventional conflict.  MORE TERROR We’re familiar with the horror scenario of a Muslim state passing a nuclear bomb to terrorists for use against an American city. But imagine the same scenario in a multi-polar Muslim nuclear world. With several Muslim countries in possession of the bomb, it would be extremely difficult to trace the state source of a nuclear terror strike. In fact, this very difficulty would encourage states (or ill-controlled elements within nuclear states — like Pakistan’s intelligence services or Iran’s Revolutionary Guards) to pass nukes to terrorists. The tougher it is to trace the source of a weapon, the easier it is to give the weapon away. In short, nuclear proliferation to multiple Muslim states greatly increases the chances of a nuclear terror strike.  Right now, the Indians and Pakistanis “enjoy” an apparently stable nuclear stand-off. Both countries have established basic deterrence, channels of communication, and have also eschewed a potentially destabilizing nuclear arms race. Attacks by Kashmiri militants in 2001 may have pushed India and Pakistan close to the nuclear brink. Yet since then, precisely because of the danger, the two countries seem to have established a clear, deterrence-based understanding. The 2001 crisis gives fuel to proliferation pessimists, while the current stability encourages proliferation optimists. Rosen points out, however, that a multi-polar nuclear Middle East is unlikely to follow the South Asian model.  Deep mutual suspicion between an expansionist, apocalyptic, Shiite Iran, secular Turkey, and the Sunni Saudis and Egyptians (not to mention Israel) is likely to fuel a dangerous multi-pronged nuclear arms race. Larger arsenals mean more chance of a weapon being slipped to terrorists. The collapse of the world’s non-proliferation regime also raises the chances that nuclearization will spread to Asian powers like Taiwan and Japan.  And of course, possession of nuclear weapons is likely to embolden Iran, especially in the transitional period before the Saudis develop weapons of their own. Like Saddam, Iran may be tempted to take control of Kuwait’s oil wealth, on the assumption that the United States will not dare risk a nuclear confrontation by escalating the conflict. If the proliferation optimists are right, then once the Saudis get nukes, Iran would be far less likely to make a move on nearby Kuwait. On the other hand, to the extent that we do see conventional war in a nuclearized Middle East, the losers will be sorely tempted to cancel out their defeat with a nuclear strike. There may have been nuclear peace during the Cold War, but there were also many “hot” proxy wars. If conventional wars break out in a nuclearized Middle East, it may be very difficult to stop them from escalating into nuclear confrontations. DUCK! What would life be like in such a world? Rosen argues that we must lose no time in constructing a specialized radar and satellite warning network trained on the Middle East. Without knowing who’s sending missiles against us, we cannot strike back or deter. Rosen also argues that even a somewhat leaky anti-missile defense system is going to be a must. A star-wars-type missile-defense system may have seemed powerless against the massive might of the old Soviet nuclear force. But against a growing nuclear power with a small arsenal, or against Islamic radicals who manage to commandeer an isolated nuclear-armed missile, an anti-missile defense could make a real difference.  This leads us to what may be Rosen’s most striking recommendation. “Duck and cover” is back! In a post-proliferation world, we are going to be raising another generation of children (probably several generations of children) marked by nerve-wracking “retention drills.” And get ready...the fallout shelter is coming back, too. Given the Soviets’ overwhelmingly large nuclear arsenal — capable of turning the entire United States to dust in the event of a major nuclear exchange — fallout shelters came to seem like a joke. But when dealing with a possible strike from a single weapon, or at most a mere handful of weapons, the logic of the fallout shelter is compelling. We’re going to need to be able to evacuate our cities in the event of a direct attack, or to avoid radiation plumes from cities that have already been struck. Tens or hundreds of thousands of lives could be saved by such measures.  But what about the problem of retaliation? Is there a middle way between the seemingly intolerable option of doing nothing to respond to a nuclear strike on New York or Washington, and indiscriminate nuclear retaliation against a country that may not even have attacked us? Rosen says the answer is a massive conventional campaign to take over and transform the countries that have struck us. That may seem intolerable now, but the public will demand no less in the wake of a nuclear attack on American soil.  So this is the upshot of Rosen’s remarkable article. Now let’s think through the implications.  DEAD DOVES For starters, the dovish Democrats are doomed. In “Hawkish Gloom,” I pointed in broad terms to the imminent hawkification of the United States. Well, Rosen’s detailed account of a post-proliferation world makes it clear that the revitalized George McGovern-Howard Dean wing of the Democratic party cannot survive much past the moment when Iran gets the bomb. As soon as that happens, we’re going to plunged into a proliferation crisis and a new Cold War, at least as dangerous as the first Cold War (arguably more so). At that point, the Democrats are going to beg Joe Lieberman to come back and give them his blessing. It turns out that we really are going to see a purge of the Democratic doves, and the accession of a Truman-like party, although it will probably take quite a few election cycles before the Democrats finally manage to remove taint of their Ned Lamont wing.  Funny how the very thing the doves don’t want — a preemptive strike on Iran, is the only thing that can save them. A nuclear Iran, followed by cascading proliferation throughout the Middle East and beyond, means the death of the dove. Even a negotiated and verifiable agreement to put an end to Iran’s nuclear program is inconceivable without the sort of credible threat of force the doves have made impossible to sustain.  A fully nuclearized, multi-polar Middle East will put us onto a permanent war footing. With Americans building fallout shelters, running evacuation drills, and otherwise preparing for a terrorist nuclear strike, dovishness won’t even be an option. Our political choices will probably be of two types. Exactly how hawkish shall we be, and how shall we shape our alliances?  After Iran gets the bomb, the fantasy that we can handle the post-9/11 world with our tiny military is going to disappear. As Rosen points out, the only middle way between helpless acceptance of nuclear terror and massive nuclear retaliation against countries that may not even have attacked us, is going to be through conventional invasions. Before, and certainly after a nuclear attack (even a terrorist and/or Iranian nuclear strike on Israel or Saudi Arabia), Americans will be forced to raise a large army capable of transforming the Middle East before final Armageddon strikes.  What’s that you say? We tried that in Iraq and it didn’t work. Well, after the bomb goes off, I assure you we’re going to try it again. In fact, you’ll demand that we try it. And with your patience and political support, at that point, who knows, it just may work.  NEW ARGUMENTS Over and above our political arguments over precisely how much to expand our military (really a lot, or a whole heck of a lot), we’re also going to argue about our alliance strategies. With multiple nuclear powers, there will probably be a lot of shifting coalitions. True, the initial alliances are already evident. In a nuclear Middle East, we will be allied with Turkey, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia against Iran. But who knows whether Iran may try to strike a deal with one of the other Muslim states at some point, perhaps cozying up to Saudi Arabia if America puts too much pressure on the House of Saud. Just as America (very imperfectly) peeled Pakistan away from the informal rogue-state coalition after 9/11, shifting alliances between multiple nuclear camps will become a real possibility. American power will no longer command a fully nuclearized world. Instead, we’ll be the first among nuclear equals, jockeying for position against coalitions of powers who collectively may be able to stand us down. In this new world, Ned Lamont and the Daily Kos will be a distant memory.  The most egregious American doves don’t even bother to think out a position on the prospects for deterrence in a post-proliferation world. Implicitly, however, like their realist counterparts, the Howard Dean doves are proliferation optimists. Whether they’ve thought it through or not, their policy preferences require them to believe that a nuclear Iran can be deterred on the model of the Cold War.  Rosen claims to be neutral between the dovish proliferation optimists and the hawkish proliferation pessimists. But the truth is, everything Rosen says inclines us toward pessimism. One after another, Rosen knocks down the pillars of the Cold War deterrence analogy, showing that in a post-proliferation world, the balance of forces will tend toward instability. The lesson is that we face two choices: preemptive war with Iran, or a nightmare world on the brink of nuclear war and nuclear terror for the foreseeable future. Anyway you slice it, the doves are doomed. Unfortunately, so may we be all. Ready or not...duck and cover!

Plan
The Broadcasting Board of Governors should develop and deploy a plasma-based anti-jamming system.

Solvency
1. Plasma-based anti-jamming reflects signals
Flight International 6 ["USAF aims for plasma jamming." Flight International 9 May 2006. Science In Context. Web. 29 Mar. 2012. http://go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?id=GALE%7CA145506181&v=2.1&u=alpharetta&it=r&p=GPS&sw=w Gale Document Number: GALE|A145506181 SS]
A plasma-based anti-jamming system for satellite communication systems is to be developed under a $750,000 US Air Force contract. Tennessee-based Haleakala Research and Development has been awarded the two-year contract to work on the system, which acts like a radome. "It's a plasma radome to protect a space-based antenna by deflecting incoming signals," says Haleakala president Edward Anderson. The plasma is inside tubes. The antenna would be at the centre of a circle of plasma tubes. The plasma tubes' gas is energised in such a way that they reflect, or are transparent to, certain incoming signals.

Not detected
Physorg 7 [Physorg.com, Source: American Physical Society, “Stealthy, Versatile, and Jam Resistant Antennas made of Gas”, November 12, 2007, http://www.physorg.com/news114098443.html SS]
A new antenna made of plasma (a gas heated to the point that the electrons are ripped free of atoms and molecules) works just like conventional metal antennas, except that it vanishes when you turn it off.
That's important on the battlefield and in other applications where antennas need to be kept out of sight. In addition, unlike metal antennas, the electrical characteristics of a plasma antenna can be rapidly adjusted to counteract signal jamming attempts.
Plasma antennas behave much like solid metal antennas because electrons flow freely in the hot gas, just as they do in metal conductors. But plasmas only exist when the gasses they're made of are very hot. The moment the energy source heating a plasma antenna is shut off, the plasma turns back into a plain old (non conductive) gas. As far as radio signals and antenna detectors go, the antenna effectively disappears when the plasma cools down.
The antenna design being presented at next week's APS Division of Plasma Physics meeting in Orlando consists of gas-filled tubes reminiscent of neon bulbs. The physicists presenting the design propose that an array of many small plasma elements could lead to a highly versatile antenna that could be reconfigured simply by turning on or off various elements.

*Acting now is key
BBG 12 [Broadcasting Board of Governors, an independent federal agency, supervising all U.S. government-supported, civilian international broadcasting, whose mission is inform, engage, and connect people around the world in support of freedom and democracy. BBG broadcasts reach an audience of 187 million in 100 countries. BBG networks include the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, the Middle East Broadcasting Networks (Alhurra TV and Radio Sawa), Radio Free Asia, and the Office of Cuba Broadcasting (Radio and TV Marti), 2/20/2012, “New Pressure On Jammers Of International Broadcasts” http://www.bbg.gov/press-release/new-pressure-on-jammers-of-international-broadcasts/ SS]
The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has called upon the world’s nations to take “necessary actions” to stop intentional interference with satellite transmissions. The change in ITU regulations, which was approved at the just-concluded World Radiocommunication Conference (WRC-12) in Geneva, Switzerland, came after numerous complaints that international satellite TV programs in Persian and Arabic were suffering from deliberate interference, known as “jamming”. Two satellite operators that have been targeted, Eutelsat and Arabsat, said the interfering signals originated from Iran and Syria. “We are gratified to see the World Radiocommunication Conference take a position on this vital issue,” said Richard M. Lobo, Director of the United States International Broadcasting Bureau. “Of course, it remains to be seen whether Iran, Syria and other countries which interfere with international satellite communications will change their practices. Jamming is a fundamental violation, not only of international regulations and norms, but of the right of people everywhere to receive and impart information,” Lobo said. The interference, which has increased since September, 2011, affected broadcasts of the British Broadcasting Corporation, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Audiovisuel extérieur de la France (RFI) and France 24 TV and Deutsche Welle. Joining in backing the ITW rule change were Radio Netherlands Worldwide and the European Broadcasting Union. The change in the regulation came after hours of discussion and debate, both in small groups and on the floor of the WRC. A report by the ITU’s Radio Regulations Board noted “the persistent character of the harmful interference” and the fact that “in some cases, the administrations involved have not responded … and appear to take no action to resolve the interference.” The revised language says administrations “shall ascertain the facts and take the necessary actions” when they encounter jamming.

=Round 6= 
==Strategy== 
1NC:
T-Human
T-Substantially Increase
Cool Procurement CP (same as Round 3)
Elections DA - EPA terminal impact
Cosmo K

2NC:
CP and Case

1NR:
Elections DA

2NR: CP

===Nanotech Cards (Case Debate)=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**CASE** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tech</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Turn- Excessive reliance on nanotech perpetuates environmental degradation</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aonano 08- (“Too Much Good Nanotechnology May Be Bad for the Environment with Silver Nanoparticles Killing Beneficial Bacteria,” April 30, 2008. http://www.azonano.com/news.aspx?newsID=6351)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Several products containing silver nanoparticles already are on the market, including socks containing silver nanoparticles designed to inhibit odor-causing bacteria and high-tech, energy-efficient washing machines that disinfect clothes by generating the tiny particles. The positive effects of that technology may be overshadowed by the potential negative environmental impact. “Because of the increasing use of silver nanoparticles in consumer products, the risk that this material will be released into sewage lines, wastewater treatment facilities, and, eventually, to rivers, streams and lakes is of concern,” said Zhiqiang Hu, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering in MU’s College of Engineering. “We found that silver nanoparticles are extremely toxic. The nanoparticles destroy the benign species of bacteria that are used for wastewater treatment. It basically halts the reproduction activity of the good bacteria.” Hu said silver nanoparticles generate more unique chemicals, known as highly reactive oxygen species, than do larger forms of silver. These oxygen species chemicals likely inhibit bacterial growth. For example, the use of wastewater treatment “sludge” as land-application fertilizer is a common practice, according to Hu. If high levels of silver nanoparticles are present in the sludge, soil used to grow food crops may be harmed.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Turn- Nanotechnology can cause disease, create a superior race, and perpetuate unethical experimentation practices</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nanogloss 10- (Nadya, staff writer, “Nanotechnology Dangers,” April 5th, 2010. http://nanogloss.com/tag/nanotechnology/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As impressive as nanotechnology might be, there are also potential disadvantages of nanotechnology. Some of the problems with nanoscience are practical while others fall under the ethical realm. Practical problems can include everything from the need for mass produced forms of nanotechnology that may or may not be possible. Ethical problems can include everything from the potential direction nanotechnology might take to the problems with the possible effects of the products created. One of the potential disadvantages of nanotechnology includes the potential for mass poisoning over a period of time. While nanoscience can produce all kinds of new and improved products, the particles that are created are so incredibly small that they may very well cause eventual health problems in the consumers that use them. Since almost everyone uses a product that has been touched by nanotechnology it is possible that the eventual health effects could be large scale. Mass poisoning could only happen if the coatings that nanotechnology has the potential to produce include poisonous microparticles that can cross over into the brain. There is a barrier between the blood stream and the brain known as the blood—brain barrier. Another potential problem with nanotechnology is the lack of our own knowledge. We know that we can create materials with nanotechnology but we still have to stop and understand the impact of the creation of these products will have on the nanoscale. If we change the structure of material on the nano level without understanding the potential impact on the nanoscale, we risk creating a whole world of materials that have atoms that actually do not fit together cohesively. There are some potential disadvantages of nanotechnology that fall in the realm of both the practical and the ethical. If nanotechnology can help the human body recover from illness or injury then it is quite possible that nanotechnology can create an altered human state. We could potentially be able to create a human race that is engineered and altered to become hyper—intelligent and super strong. The serious complications with such issues include the idea that the scientific technology would only be available to those who can afford it. That would mean there would be an underclass of people; the people we are now. Should nanotechnology actually be able to procure an honest and true molecular manufacturing machine for every household how would the world’s economy survive? What would we do with all those jobs that are lost in the manufacturing fields and how would we calculate monetary concerns when it comes to this type of on demand manufacturing? There is a host of potential weaponry that could be produced on a molecular level. For any scientist, the potential to engineer diseases and create lethal weaponry that can’t even be seen is an ethical quagmire. Even more distressing is whether or not other countries that have nanotechnology capabilities will create these weapons.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A new pandemic will cause extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Helen Branswell, October 2, 2005, World as we know it' may be at stake: UN pandemic czar, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://cnews.canoe.ca/CNEWS/Canada/2005/10/02/1245355-cp.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A flu pandemic could fundamentally alter the world as we know it, warns the public health veteran charged with coordinating UN planning for and response to the threat. Inadequate - and inequitably shared - global resources and the uncertainties inherent in trying to predict the behaviour of influenza combine to create planning dilemmas that are "monster difficult," Dr. David Nabarro said in an interview describing his new job and the challenges ahead. Progress will demand appealing "to people's recognition that we're dealing here with world survival issues - or the survival of the world as we know it," Nabarro explains. "And therefore we just can't go on approaching it with sort of business-as-usual type approaches." The former head of the World Health Organization's crisis operations was seconded to the UN to co-ordinate world response to both the ongoing avian influenza outbreak in Southeast Asia and preparations for a human flu pandemic. A native of Britain, Nabarro says the decision to appoint a planning czar reflects surging political concern that the world may be facing a pandemic springing from the H5N1 avian flu strain, which is decimating poultry in Asia and has already killed at least 60 people in Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia. "Governments have realized that this is something to be worried about," he says, adding the UN must harness that concern and the resources it frees up. "It's a rare thing, political commitment to deal with a health issue. And when you've got it, you must use it well," he insists. "We're not going to have such an excellent window of opportunity to really start moving forward with this for long. And so we must take advantage of it now." One of the monster dilemmas Nabarro describes relates to antiviral drugs, which may be able to blunt the blow of pandemic flu. But there are only two drugs which, in laboratory settings, work against all possible pandemic strains, oseltamivir (sold as Tamiflu) and zanamivir (sold as Relenza). Both are expensive and made in limited quantities. And there appears to be no quick or easy way to ramp up production. In addition, the supplies that exist - as well as most of those that will be made in the foreseeable future - are spoken for. They are either squirreled away in or destined for stockpiles held by the world's wealthy nations. "So we're going to have very little stuff and it's already stuck away in stockpiles . . . that people will protect with their lives. And yet we're going to have to find some way to ration these things so that they are given to the folk who need them the most," Nabarro says. That statement may reflect Nabarro's position on the pandemic learning curve. Setting priorities for who will and won't get antiviral drugs is a responsibility of governments, not the UN or the WHO </span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘Nanobots that self-replicate are impossible.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smalley in 03</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rick- University Professor, Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Physics & Astronomy, 1996 Nobel Prize Winner – Chemistry and Engineering News, “Nanotechnology: Drexler and Smalley Make the Case for and Against “Molecular Assemblers’”, December 1, Volume 81, Number 48, p. 37-42]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><You still do not appear to understand the impact of my short piece in Scientific American. Much like you can't make a boy and a girl fall in love with each other simply by pushing them together, you cannot make precise chemistry occur as desired between two molecular objects with simple mechanical motion along a few degrees of freedom in the assembler-fixed frame of reference. Chemistry, like love, is more subtle than that. You need to guide the reactants down a particular reaction coordinate, and this coordinate treads through a many-dimensional hyperspace. I agree you will get a reaction when a robot arm pushes the molecules together, but most of the time it won't be the reaction you want. You argue that "if particular conditions will yield the wrong product, one must either choose different conditions (different positions, reactants, adjacent groups) or choose another synthetic target." But in all of your writings, I have never seen a convincing argument that this list of conditions and synthetic targets that will actually work reliably with mechanosynthesis can be anything but a very, very short list. Chemistry of the complexity, richness, and precision needed to come anywhere close to making a molecular assembler--let alone a self-replicating assembler--cannot be done simply by mushing two molecular objects together. You need more control. There are too many atoms involved to handle in such a clumsy way. To control these atoms you need some sort of molecular chaperone that can also serve as a catalyst. You need a fairly large group of other atoms arranged in a complex, articulated, three-dimensional way to activate the substrate and bring in the reactant, and massage the two until they react in just the desired way. You need something very much like an enzyme. In your open letter to me you wrote, "Like enzymes and ribosomes, proposed assemblers neither have nor need these 'Smalley fingers.'" I thought for a while that you really did get it, and you realized that on the end of your robotic assembler arm you need an enzymelike tool. That is why I led you in my reply into a room to talk about real chemistry with real enzymes, trying to get you to realize the limitations of this approach. Any such system will need a liquid medium. For the enzymes we know about, that liquid will have to be water, and the types of things that can be synthesized with water around cannot be much broader than the meat and bone of biology. But, no, you don't get it. You are still in a pretend world where atoms go where you want because your computer program directs them to go there. You assume there is a way a robotic manipulator arm can do that in a vacuum, and somehow we will work out a way to have this whole thing actually be able to make another copy of itself. I have given you reasons why such an assembler cannot be built, and will not operate, using the principles you suggest. I consider that your failure to provide a working strategy indicates that you implicitly concur--even as you explicitly deny--that the idea cannot work. A few weeks ago I gave a talk on nanotechnology and energy titled "Be a Scientist, Save the World" to about 700 middle and high school students in the Spring Branch ISD, a large public school system here in the Houston area. Leading up to my visit, the students were asked to write an essay on "Why I Am a Nanogeek." Hundreds responded, and I had the privilege of reading the top 30 essays, picking my favorite five. Of the essays I read, nearly half assumed that self-replicating nanobots were possible, and most were deeply worried about what would happen in their future as these nanobots spread around the world. I did what I could to allay their fears, but there is no question that many of these youngsters have been told a bedtime story that is deeply troubling. You and people around you have scared our children. I don't expect you to stop, but I hope others in the chemical community will join with me in turning on the light, and showing our children that, while our future in the real world will be challenging and there are real risks, there will be no such monster as the self-replicating mechanical nanobot of your dreams.></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Self-Replicating nano-bots are impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smalley in 03</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Rick- University Professor, Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Physics & Astronomy, 1996 Nobel Prize Winner – Chemistry and Engineering News, “Nanotechnology: Drexler and Smalley Make the Case for and Against “Molecular Assemblers’”, December 1, Volume 81, Number 48, p. 37-42]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><But where does the enzyme or ribosome entity come from in your vision of a self-replicating nanobot? Is there a living cell somewhere inside the nanobot that churns these out? There then must be liquid water present somewhere inside, and all the nutrients necessary for life. And now that we're thinking about it, how is it that the nanobot picks just the enzyme molecule it needs out of this cell, and how does it know just how to hold it and make sure it joins with the local region where the assembly is being done, in just the right fashion? How does the nanobot know when the enzyme is damaged and needs to be replaced? How does the nanobot do error detection and error correction? And what kind of chemistry can it do? Enzymes and ribosomes can only work in water, and therefore cannot build anything that is chemically unstable in water. Biology is wonderous in the vast diversity of what it can build, but it can't make a crystal of silicon, or steel, or copper, or aluminum, or titanium, or virtually any of the key materials on which modern technology is built. Without such materials, how is this self-replicating nanobot ever going to make a radio, or a laser, or an ultrafast memory, or virtually any other key component of modern technological society that isn't made of rock, wood, flesh, and bone? I can only guess that you imagine it is possible to make a molecular entity that has the superb, selective chemical-construction ability of an enzyme without the necessity of liquid water. If so, it would be helpful to all of us who take the nanobot assembler idea of "Engines of Creation" seriously if you would tell us more about this nonaqueous enzymelike chemistry. What liquid medium will you use? How are you going to replace the loss of the hydrophobic/hydrophilic, ion-solvating, hydrogen-bonding genius of water in orchestrating precise three-dimensional structures and membranes? Or do you really think it is possible to do enzymelike chemistry of arbitrary complexity with only dry surfaces and a vacuum? The central problem I see with the nanobot self-assembler then is primarily chemistry. If the nanobot is restricted to be a water-based life-form, since this is the only way its molecular assembly tools will work, then there is a long list of vulnerabilities and limitations to what it can do. If it is a non-water-based life-form, then there is a vast area of chemistry that has eluded us for centuries.></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Conflict</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space weapons are not key to heg – we’ll develop alternatives easily that are cheaper and less provocative</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DeBlois 04, former Adjunct Senior Fellow for Science and Technology at the Council on Foreign Relations [Bruce, “Space Weapons: Crossing the U.S. Rubicon”, Richard L. Garwin, R. Scott Kemp, Jeremy C. Marwell Source: International Security, Vol. 29, No. 2 (Autumn, 2004), pp. 50-84 http://www.jstor.org/stable/4137586, Accessed July 7 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IN SUM: GLOBAL FORCE PROJECTION. Global rapid and denied-access force projection is possible and will happen without the development of space weapons, through adaptations to existing systems. Except for the unique capability that might be contributed by space-based lasers for a small class of targets, terrestrial methods of force projection appear to be superior to space weapons systems, if they were to become a reality at some point in the future. Furthermore, space weapons will be expensive, vulnerable to countermeasures, and politically inflammatory. The question of whether to deploy space weapons, therefore, becomes a matter of marginal value added and opportunity costs. In the near term, nonspace weapons such as UAVs, cruise missiles, and ICBMs with conventional payloads will provide greater capability sooner and at lower cost.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victories don't increase hegemony - defeating Osama Bin Laden didn't increase our currently low power projection</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nye ’11 [Dr. Joseph S. Nye, a former US Assistant Secretary of Defense, professor at Harvard, and author of The Future of Power, 5/5/2011, “American power after bin Laden” http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/05/05/american-power-after-bin-laden/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">UNITED KINGDOM – When one state is preponderant in power resources, observers often refer to the situation as hegemonic. Today, many pundits argue that other countries’ rising power and the loss of American influence in a revolutionary Middle East point to the decline of “American hegemony.” But the term is confusing. For one thing, possession of power resources does not always imply that one can get the outcomes one prefers. Even the recent death of Osama bin Laden at the hands of United States special forces does not indicate anything about American power one way or the other. To see why, consider the situation after World War II. The U.S. accounted for more than one-third of global product and had an overwhelming preponderance in nuclear weapons. Many considered it a global hegemon. Nonetheless, the U.S. was unable to prevent the “loss” of China, “roll back” communism in Eastern Europe, prevent stalemate in the Korean War, defeat Vietnam’s National Liberation Front, or dislodge the Castro regime in Cuba. Even in the era of alleged American hegemony, studies show that only one-fifth of America’s efforts to compel change in other countries through military threats were successful, while economic sanctions worked in only half of all cases. Yet many believe that America’s current preponderance in power resources is hegemonic, and that it will decline, like that of Britain before it. Some Americans react emotionally to that prospect, though it would be ahistorical to believe that the U.S. will have a preponderant share of power resources forever.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Multipolarity coming now- primacy unsustainable</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Edelman 11 (Eric, Distinguished Fellow at Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment, CSBA Online, “Understanding America’s Contested Primacy.” http://www.csbaonline.org/publications/2010/10/understanding-americas-contested-primacy/1/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In November 2008, the National Intelligence Council released Global Trends 2025 which argued that “the international system — as constructed following the Second World War — will be almost unrecognizable by 2025 owing to the rise of emerging powers, a globalizing economy, a historic transfer of relative wealth and economic power from West to East, and the growing influence of non-state actors. By 2025 the international system will be a global multipolar one with gaps in national power continuing to narrow between developed and developing countries” [emphasis in original].” This conclusion represented a striking departure from the NIC’s conclusion four years earlier in Mapping the Global Future 2020 that unipolarity was likely to remain a persistent condition of the international system. Between the two reports America’s zeitgeist had clearly shifted under the impact of persistent difficulty in the counterinsurgency wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and increased questioning of United States global leadership (at home and abroad), the seemingly inexorable rise of the newly emerging economies (suggestively labeled as the BRICs by Goldman Sachs analysts), and the global economic downturn and recession in the United States. The overall impact was the creation of a new conventional wisdom that foresees continued decline of the United States, an end to the unipolar world order that marked the post-Cold War world and a potential departure from the pursuit of US primacy that marked the foreign policies of the three presidential administrations that followed the end of the Cold War. The debate over unipolarity and continued US primacy is not merely an academic debate. Perceptions of US power will guide both American policymakers and other nations as they consider their policy options. Primacy has underpinned US grand strategy since the end of the Cold War because no other nation was able to provide the collective public goods that have upheld the security of the international system and enabled a period of dramatically increased global economic activity and prosperity. Both the United States and the global system have benefitted from that circumstance. The arguments for US decline are not new but before they harden into an unchallenged orthodoxy it would be good to carefully examine many of the key assumptions that undergird the emerging conventional wisdom. Will the undeniable relative decline of the United States, in fact, lead to the end of unipolarity? Do the BRIC countries really represent a bloc? What would multipolarity look like? How does one measure national power anyhow, and how can one measure the change in the power distribution globally? Is the rise of global competitors inevitable? What are some of the weaknesses that might hamper the would-be competitors from staying on their current favorable economic and political trajectory? Does the United States possess some underappreciated strengths that might serve as the basis for continued primacy in the international system and, if so, what steps would a prudent government take to extend that primacy into the future? The history of straight-line projections of economic growth and the rise of challengers to the dominance of the United States has not been kind to those who have previously predicted US decline. It is not necessarily the case that the United States will be caught between the end of the “unipolar moment” of post-Cold War predominance and a global multipolar world. The emerging international environment is likely to be different than either of the futures forecast by the NIC in Mapping the Global Future in 2004 or Global Trends 2025 in 2008. It would seem more likely that the relative decline of American power will still leave the United States as the most powerful actor in the international system. But the economic rise of other nations and the spread of nuclear weapons in some key regions are likely to confront the US with difficult new challenges. The revived notion of America’s decline has once again brought to the fore a question about the purposes of United States power and the value of US international primacy. Seeking to maintain America’s advantage as the prime player in the international system imposes costs on the US budget and taxpayer. It is certainly fair to ask what the United States gets from exerting the effort to remain number one. It is also worth considering what the world would look like if the United States was just one power among many, and how such perceptions might affect the strategic and policy choices national security decision-makers will face over the next twenty-odd years. </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Heg will inevitably collapse – attempting to hold on makes the decline worse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pape 9 (Robert A. Pape, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, “The Empire Falls”, The National Interest, June 28, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20484)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clearly, major shifts in the balance of power in the international system often lead to instability and conflict. And America’s current predicament is far more severe. This time, our relative decline of 32 percent is accompanied, not by an even-steeper decline of our near-peer competitor, but rather by a 144 percent increase in China’s relative position. Further, the rapid spread of technology and technological breakthroughs means that one great discovery does not buoy an already-strong state to decades-long predominance. And with a rising China—with raw resources of population, landmass and increasing adoption of leading technology—a true peer competitor is looming. America’s current, rapid domestic economic decline is merely accelerating our own downfall. The distinct quality of a system with only one superpower is that no other single state is powerful enough to balance against it. A true global hegemon is more powerful still—stronger than all second-ranked powers acting as members of a counterbalancing coalition seeking to contain the unipolar leader. By these standards, America’s relative decline is fundamentally changing international politics, and is fundamentally different from Russia circa 1850 and Great Britain circa 1910. In current-U.S.-dollar terms—the preferred measure of the unipolar-dominance school—the United States has already fallen far from being a global hegemon and unipolarity itself is waning, since China will soon have as much economic potential to balance the United States as did the Soviet Union during the cold war. At the beginning of the 1990s, the United States was indeed not only stronger than any other state individually, but its power relative to even the collective power of all other major states combined grew from 1990 to 2000. Although the growth was small, America almost reached the crucial threshold of 50 percent of major-power product necessary to become a true global hegemon. So it is understandable that we were lulled into a sense of security, believing we could do as we wished, whenever and wherever we wished. The instability and danger of the cold war quickly became a distant memory. Near the time of the Iraq War, it would have required virtually every major power to actively oppose the United States in order to assemble a counterbalancing coalition that could approximate America’s potential power. Under the circumstances, hard, military balancing against the United States was not a serious possibility. So, it is not surprising that major powers opted for soft-balancing measures—relying on institutional, economic and diplomatic tools to oppose American military power. And yet we are beginning to see “the conflict of history” repeat itself. Even with less relative power, in the run-up to the Iraq War, people grossly underrated the ability of Germany, France, Russia and China, along with important regional powers like Turkey, to soft balance against the United States; for instance, to use the United Nations to delay, complicate and ultimately deny the use of one-third of U.S. combat power (the Fourth Infantry Division) in the opening months of the Iraq War. This is not yet great-power war of the kind seen in centuries past, but it harkens the instability that future unilateral efforts may trigger. The balance of world power circa 2008 and 2013 shows a disturbing trend. True, the United States remains stronger than any other state individually, but its power to stand up to the collective opposition of other major powers is falling precipitously. Though these worlds depict potential power, not active counterbalancing coalitions, and this type of alliance may never form, nonetheless, American relative power is declining to the point where even subsets of major powers acting in concert could produce sufficient military power to stand a reasonable chance of successfully opposing American military policies. Indeed, if present trends continue to 2013 and beyond, China and Russia, along with any one of the other major powers, would have sufficient economic capacity to mount military opposition at least as serious as did the Soviet Union during the cold war. And it is worth remembering that the Soviet Union never had more than about half the world product of the United States, which China alone is likely to reach in the coming decade. The faults in the arguments of the unipolar-dominance school are being brought into sharp relief. The world is slowly coming into balance. Whether or not this will be another period of great-power transition coupled with an increasing risk of war will largely depend on how America can navigate its decline. Policy makers must act responsibly in this new era or risk international opposition that poses far greater costs and far greater dangers. A COHERENT grand strategy seeks to balance a state’s economic resources and its foreign-policy commitments and to sustain that balance over time. For America, a coherent grand strategy also calls for rectifying the current imbalance between our means and our ends, adopting policies that enhance the former and modify the latter. Clearly, the United States is not the first great power to suffer long-term decline—we should learn from history. Great powers in decline seem to almost instinctively spend more on military forces in order to shore up their disintegrating strategic positions, and some like Germany go even further, shoring up their security by adopting preventive military strategies, beyond defensive alliances, to actively stop a rising competitor from becoming dominant. For declining great powers, the allure of preventive war—or lesser measures to “merely” firmly contain a rising power—has a more compelling logic than many might assume. Since Thucydides, scholars of international politics have famously argued that a declining hegemon and rising challenger must necessarily face such intense security competition that hegemonic war to retain dominance over the international system is almost a foregone conclusion. Robert Gilpin, one of the deans of realism who taught for decades at Princeton, believed that “the first and most attractive response to a society’s decline is to eliminate the source of the problem . . . [by] what we shall call a hegemonic war.” Yet, waging war just to keep another state down has turned out to be one of the great losing strategies in history. The Napoleonic Wars, the Austro-Prussian War, the Franco-Prussian War, German aggression in World War I, and German and Japanese aggression in World War II were all driven by declining powers seeking to use war to improve their future security. All lost control of events they thought they could control. All suffered ugly defeats. All were worse-off than had they not attacked. As China rises, America must avoid this great-power trap. It would be easy to think that greater American military efforts could offset the consequences of China’s increasing power and possibly even lead to the formation of a multilateral strategy to contain China in the future. Indeed, when China’s economic star began to rise in the 1990s, numerous voices called for precisely this, noting that on current trajectories China would overtake the United States as the world’s leading economic power by 2050.8 Now, as that date draws nearer—indeed, current-dollar calculations put the crossover point closer to 2040—and with Beijing evermore dependent on imported oil for continued economic growth, one might think the case for actively containing China is all the stronger. Absent provocative military adventures by Beijing, however, U.S. military efforts to contain the rising power are most likely doomed to failure. China’s growth turns mainly on domestic issues—such as shifting the workforce from rural to urban areas—that are beyond the ability of outside powers to significantly influence. Although China’s growth also depends on external sources of oil, there is no way to exploit this vulnerability short of obviously hostile alliances (with India, Indonesia, Taiwan and Japan) and clearly aggressive military measures (controlling the sea-lanes from the Persian Gulf to Asia) that together could deny oil to China. Any efforts along these lines would likely backfire—and only exacerbate America’s problems, increasing the risk of counterbalancing. Even more insidious is the risk of overstretch. This self-reinforcing spiral escalates current spending to maintain increasingly costly military commitments, crowding out productive investment for future growth. Today, the cold-war framework of significant troop deployments to Europe, Asia and the Persian Gulf is coming unglued. We cannot afford to keep our previous promises. With American forces bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan and mounting troubles in Iran and Pakistan, the United States has all but gutted its military commitments to Europe, reducing our troop levels far below the one hundred thousand of the 1990s. Nearly half have been shifted to Iraq and elsewhere. Little wonder that Russia found an opportunity to demonstrate the hollowness of the Bush administration’s plan for expanding NATO to Russia’s borders by scoring a quick and decisive military victory over Georgia that America was helpless to prevent. If a large-scale conventional war between China and Taiwan broke out in the near future, one must wonder whether America would significantly shift air and naval power away from its ongoing wars in the Middle East in order to live up to its global commitments. If the United States could not readily manage wars in Iraq and Afghanistan at the same time, could it really wage a protracted struggle in Asia as well? And as the gap between America’s productive resources and global commitments grows, why will others pass up opportunities to take advantage of America’s overstretched grand strategy? Since the end of the cold war, American leaders have consistently claimed the ability to maintain a significant forward-leaning military presence in the three major regions of the globe and, if necessary, to wage two major regional wars at the same time. The harsh reality is that the United States no longer has the economic capacity for such an ambitious grand strategy. With 30 percent of the world’s product, the United States could imagine maintaining this hope. Nearing 20 percent, it cannot. Yet, just withdrawing American troops from Iraq is not enough to put America’s grand strategy into balance. Even assuming a fairly quick and problem-free drawdown, the risks of instability in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the region are likely to remain for many years to come. Further, even under the most optimistic scenarios, America is likely to remain dependent on imported oil for decades. Together, these factors point toward the Persian Gulf remaining the most important region in American grand strategy. So, as Europe and Asia continue to be low-order priorities, Washington must think creatively and look for opportunities to make strategic trades. America needs to share the burden of regional security with its allies and continue to draw down our troop levels in Europe and Asia, even considering the attendant risks. The days when the United States could effectively solve the security problems of its allies in these regions almost on its own are coming to an end. True, spreading defense burdens more equally will not be easy and will be fraught with its own costs and risks. However, this is simply part of the price of America’s declining relative power. The key principle is for America to gain international support among regional powers like Russia and China for its vital national-security objectives by adjusting less important U.S. policies. For instance, Russia may well do more to discourage Iran’s nuclear program in return for less U.S. pressure to expand NATO to its borders. And of course America needs to develop a plan to reinvigorate the competitiveness of its economy. Recently, Harvard’s Michael Porter issued an economic blueprint to renew America’s environment for innovation. The heart of his plan is to remove the obstacles to increasing investment in science and technology. A combination of targeted tax, fiscal and education policies to stimulate more productive investment over the long haul is a sensible domestic component to America’s new grand strategy. But it would be misguided to assume that the United States could easily regain its previously dominant economic position, since the world will likely remain globally competitive. To justify postponing this restructuring of its grand strategy, America would need a firm expectation of high rates of economic growth over the next several years. There is no sign of such a burst on the horizon. Misguided efforts to extract more security from a declining economic base only divert potential resources from investment in the economy, trapping the state in an ever-worsening strategic dilemma. This approach has done little for great powers in the past, and America will likely be no exception when it comes to the inevitable costs of desperate policy making. The United States is not just declining. Unipolarity is becoming obsolete, other states are rising to counter American power and the United States is losing much of its strategic freedom. Washington must adopt more realistic foreign commitments</span>
=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]