====== ====== 
[[toc]]
======<span style="font-size: 17.6px;">For cites email marieev1535@gmail.com</span>====== 
=Affirmative= 
===[[#1AC States]]1AC States=== 
====Contention 1: The Border==== 
The US has deliberately resisted investing in transportation infrastructure at the Mexican Border due to the status quo focus on border security being the driving force behind all border policy.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Wilson, 11</span>, Christopher E., Mexico Institute, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars “Working Together,” Wilson Center, November 2011,

No additional funding for border transportation is coming.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Balido, 12</span> (Nelson, “Trade Makes Some Gains in New Transportation Bill, but Long-Term Plan Still Needed”, Border Trade Alliance, [[http://www.thebta.org/tag/canamex|Http://Www.Thebta.Org/Tag/Canamex]] SW)
but Let’s Give Credit Where … up a Long-Term Transportation Plan.

This focus on security is rooted in the border’s traditional social function as the place where society defines itself. In enforcing the limits and conditions of entry, the image of the self and its relationship to the other are defined.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Salter 6</span> [associate professor of political studies at University of Ottawa, “The Global Visa Regime: Borders, Bodies, Biopolitics”, Alternatives 31]

This process of inclusion and exclusion that takes places at the boarders cements a very specific understanding of the Other as one whose welcome must be conditional.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Btihaj 06</span>; AjanaPhD candidate in Sociology at Macquarie University; “Immigration Interrupted,” Journal of Cultural Research 10:3, July, p. 259-260

This conception of the Other is what justifies the states attempt to regulate its own internal makeup based on self-reflexive standards for being American.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Yegenoglu 03</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">; MeydaAssociate Professor in the Department of Sociology at the Middle East Technical University; “Liberal Multiculturalism and the Ethics of Hospitality in the Age of Globalization”; Postmodern Culture Volume 13, Number 2</span>

Attempts to manage alternatiy within the American body politic inevitably results in xenophobic violence.
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Jane**Juffer;** 20**09**; Associate Professor of English at Cornell University; </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Compassion and Rage: The Face of the Migrant</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> ; South Atlantic Quarterly 108:1</span>

Our ability to draw lines between acceptable and unacceptable members of both local and global society is the key internal link to American violence both inside and outside our borders.
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Hoffmann</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> ‘7 (Kasper, International Development Studies at Roskilde University, May, “Militarised Bodies and Spirits of Resistance”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://diggy.ruc.dk:8080/handle/1800/2766]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">)</span>

====Plan==== 
A<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">s an act of affirming unconditional hospitality my partner and I demand the United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure serving ports-of-entry along the United States-Mexico border</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Contention 2: Solvency</span>==== 


Affirmation of unconditional hospitality radically changes our understanding of the body politic. The politics of exclusion and violence that come with protecting the group identity are transformed into a politics of openness.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Maurice **Hamington**;20**10**; Professor of Women’s Studies at the Metropolitan State College of Denver ;”Toward a Theory of Feminist Hospitality”; Feminist Formations, Volume 22, Number 1</span>


The 1AC is the only possible starting point. Only immigration politics force us to confront Otherness on a national level, which is key to challenging the violence of the American body politic.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Gibson ‘03</span>; Sarah Lecturer in the Department of Culture, Media and Communication, University of Surrey; “Accommodating strangers: British hospitality and the asylum hotel Debate”; Journal for Cultural Research, Vol. 7, No. 4


It’s true; this single act of openness won’t tear down the walls of US oppression in one fell swoop, but that isn’t the point. Ethics is only possible when we attempt to actualize the impossible. This ruptures the dominant system of ideology and creates space for new politics of Otherness.

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Yegenoglu</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">; ‘**03**; MeydaAssociate Multiculturalism and the Ethics of Hospitality in the Age of Globalization”; Postmodern Culture Volume 13, Number 2</span>


Making each act a question of absolute solvency makes any ethical act impossible because no one action could ever solve all violence. Vote Affirmative to engage in a continuous struggle towards ethics, anything else is complicit in violence.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bulley; ‘06;</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> Dan “Negotiating ethics: Campbell, Ontopology, and Hospitality”; Review of International Studies; Vol. 32</span>


Ethics can only be rooted in openness and responsibility to the Other. Only the face of the Other challenges the ability of the self to know and regulate the external world, starting anywhere else only furthers this.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Zylinska 05</span>; JoannaReader in New Media and Communications at [[http://www.goldsmiths.ac.uk/|Goldsmiths]], University of London; THE UNIVERSAL ACTS Judith Butler and the Biopolitics of Immigration; Cultural Studies Vol. 18, No. 4



**Rhetoric matters- the way in which we rhetorically construct the places we advocate for shapes what they become.** 

Danielle **__<span style="color: #000000;">Endresand</span>__** Samantha **__<span style="color: #000000;">Senda-Cook</span>__**, Associate Professor @ Communication Location Matters and Assistant Professor @ Creighton University, The Rhetoric ofPlace in Protest ,Quarterly Journal of Speech, Vol. 97, No. 3, August 20**__<span style="color: #000000;">11</span>__**, pp. 257282



In round rhetoric matters. Public utterances are a sign of conviction. That means you have to be responsible for the ethics of what you advocate, means our impact turns stand on all flows.

Ronald Walter **__<span style="color: #000000;">Green and</span>__** Darrin **__<span style="color: #000000;">Hicks</span>__** ‘**__<span style="color: #000000;">5</span>__** (Cultural Studies, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 100-126, “Lost Convictions: Debating both sides and the ethical self-fashioning of liberal citizens”, January 2005) (this card paraphrases arguments from Murphy, R. (1957) ‘The ethics of debating both sides’, Speech Teacher , vol. 6, no. 1. JSTOR wouldn’t give us the actual article, it was annoying)


===[[#Affirmative--1AC Valley]]1AC Valley=== 
====[[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 1: Right To The Streets]]Contention 1: Right To The Streets==== 
Life in the city is defined by density and by heterogeneity. Urban space, more so than any other mode of community, forces individuals to coexist continuously with others in dense and limited space. These aspects of urban life demand a unique approach to the production of urban space. We call this approach The Right To The City.
Don **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchelle</span>__**, Geography Prof @ Syracuse, The Right To The City, New York: Guilford Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**, P.17-18

“There are several...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to the city</span>” (Lefebvre 1996 [1968], 174).

The Right To The City recognizes that urban dwellers, not the state or the market, must have the right to appropriate and dictate the production of urban space in a way that addresses their daily needs and experience.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Citizenship and the Right to the Global City: Reimagining the Capitalist World Order, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, September 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Everyday life...</span>political community.”

Unfortunately, the vast majority of urban public space serves one purpose: the orderly and convenient use of an automobile.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]

““Share the Road”...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> function democratically</span> (Mitchell 2003, 132).”

By cutting off each motorist from others and from the space, automobile dominated space becomes a space of isolation from others and from the city space. This destroys the social nature of most of the city’s public space, rendering it depoliticized.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Matthew Wietse **__Talsma__**</span>, Geography Prof @ U Toronto, Technologies of the City and Technologies of the Self: Lessons from the Road, 2010, Google It

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“The</span> freedom... against traffic.”

“As in all the... state apparatus.”
This transition away from the city as a sight of vibrant public social spaces forces urban dwellers to cede control over the production of urban space. Only public space can provide the forum for the formation and expression of demands on urban space that are essential for exercising Right to the City.
Simon __Springe____r__, Geography Prog @ University of Victoria, Public Space as Emancipation: Meditations on Anarchism, Radical Democracy, Neoliberalism and Violence, Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2, 20__10__
“Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">spatialized notions...</span>recurring performances ([[debatecoaches/home#b137|Valentine 1996]]).”

The result is the violent disenfranchisement of countless urban populations. Ceding control of the production of urban space to the external forces renders whole populations disposable.
David **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__ Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Surplus absorption...its production</span>.”

====Plan==== 

Thus my partner and I, as an act of reclaiming right to the city, demand federal investment in bicycle infrastructure along urban roads.
==== ==== 
====[[#Affirmative--1AC Valley-Contention 2 is Solvency]]Contention 2: Solvency==== 

Cycling, as an alternative mode of transportation, repoliticizes the streets as a public space by allowing individuals to interact with both other’s and the urban environment.
Zach **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Furness</span>__**, Prof of Cultural Studies @ Columbia College, One Less Car: Bicycling And The Politics’ Of Automobilist, Temple University Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>__**

“At the most basic level,...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> my lovely bicycle”</span>

This in turn makes the promotion of the bicycle a key step in the actualization of the Right To The City. By forcing the individual to actively engage with space during transportation, bicycling produces the type of urban subjects necessary to shift the production of urban space back to the urban dwellers themselves.
Jen **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Petersen</span>__**, Ph.D. in Sociology from New York University, “Pedaling Hope,” Magazine for Urban Documentation, Opinion and Theory, no. 6, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span>__**, [[http://www.monumagazine.com/monu6/Petersen_final.pdf]]

“This and other experiences...seeing and knowing.”

Federal investment in in bike infrastructure drastically increases biking. Test programs prove.
PRI (Public Radio International), “New study shows federal investment in bike infrastructure paying off”, 22 May, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12, </span>__**[[http://www.pri.org/stories/business/the-bright-side-of-biking9962.html]]

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Across the..</span>the future."

Infrastructure investment is the key starting point. Everything else follows.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]

“While the...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of transportation</span>. “

We ask that you use your ballot to affirm our vision of urban space by joining us in our demand for federal investment in bicycle infrastructure. No one here controls the state and we think that’s fine, the production of urban space must begin with deliberation and politics among the people.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Excavating Lefebvre: The right to the city and its urban politics of the inhabitant, GeoJournal 58: 99–108, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">02</span>__**

“Lefebvre’s notion...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">citizen enfranchisement</span>.”

====[[#Additional Aff Cards]]Additional Aff cards that we sometimes read in the 1AC==== 

The rhetoric we use in our demands will matter because rhetoric lends meaning to the physical infrastructure.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Danielle **__Endres__** **__and__** Samantha **__Senda-Cook__**, Associate Professor @ Communication Location Matters and Assistant Professor @ Creighton University, The Rhetoric of Place in Protest ,Quarterly Journal of Speech, Vol. 97, No. 3, August 20**__11__**, pp. 257282</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">"The rhetorical deployment....toward social change."</span>

The structural violence that is the impact to the AFF comes first.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mumia </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Abu-Jamal 1998</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">"We live equally...six-year period."</span>

Bike infrastructure must be demanded at every level of government in order to normalize biking in transportation policy.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rao 10</span> Robert Rao, Masters at Simon Fraser University of Communication, 2010, “URBAN CYCLING AS THE MEASURE OF THE CITY:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>EXPERIENCE, POLICY AND THE CULTURAL POLITICS<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>OF MOBILITY,” SIMON FRASER UNIVERSITY, http://summit.sfu.ca/item/10003

"Making demands of...value to the city."

=Negative= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Apocalyptic Rhetoric K</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic rhetoric forecloses on civil society based discussions of politics, economics, and the environment.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kurasawa ‘4,**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Moreover, I would ...global justice. “</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**This makes every impact more likely. A vibrant public sphere and cultures of foresight are key to solve future trends towards extinction**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**__Kurasawa ‘4__, (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“In the first...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">via strong publics</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic representations ensures biopolitical control over populations – genocide is ongoing and extinction is inevitable**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Coviello 00**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Apocalypse</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #00000a; font-size: 9pt;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;"> as I ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">__<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">done without</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**The Alternative is to vote negative to reject the rhetorical justifications of the 1AC.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**A focus on rhetoric is critical to crafting effective responses to crisis.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Doremus**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**00**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse , Professor of Law, University of California at Davis. J.D., 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, * Washington & Lee Law Review Winter, 2000</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Rhetoric matters....</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">is interpreted.”</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Anthropocentrism K]][[#Negative--Anthropocentrism K]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthropocentrism K</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Attempts to make humane society more equitable ignore the continuous violence against the natural world that that society is built off of. This not only outweighs the case, but makes their solvency impossible because they don’t challenge the anthropocentric roots of oppression.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; 5: 353–369</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">ordering of war.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism underscores all other modes of oppression. Our critique needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; 5: 353–369</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">This reflection need...non-human animals.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**Impact is unending genocidal violence demened politically unqualified.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tarik </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi and**__ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Noam </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Ordan**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Prof @Sussex Law School and Prof at Bar Llan University, boarderlands, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity, Volume 7 Number 3, 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**08**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Within the picture...an eternal Treblinka” (Singer, 1968, p.750).”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the humanism if the 1AC. This is rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Laura </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**Hudson**__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Cultural Studies PhD UC-Davis, The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare life, Mediations: Journal of Marxist Literary Group 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">__**04**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“We are all….truly separable.”</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Complexity K]]<span style="font-size: 15px;">Complexity</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> K</span></span>=== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prediction is impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deug Whan </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sa, 04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In many cases, ... same causal relationships.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is especially true for transportation infrastructure. The many variables such as human use and weather make linier predictions impossible</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kara </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kockelman and</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Christopher </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Frazier</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> –A graduate student researcher at UT, An assistant professor of civil engineering at UT , “Chaos Theory and Transportation Systems: An Instructive Example”, 9/17/04,[[http://www.ce.utexas.edu/prof/kockelman/public_html/trb04chaos.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This paper was ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">nonlinear transportation systems</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Planning based on ... about the future.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative to engage in policy analysis of complexity- key to have preferable political results in a chaotic world</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rosenau, 97</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – professor of international affairs at George Washington , “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In short, there ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">damn things simultaneously.</span>


=== === 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Anarcho-primitivism]]<span style="font-family: sans-serif; text-align: start;">Anarcho-primitivism</span></span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The constant urge for progress and technological development exploits and devalues life</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">John </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">03</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Globalization And Its Apologists: An Abolitionist Perspective”</span>

<span class="DebateHighlighted" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the name ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">for virtual community.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The mission of progressing through mastering technology keeps on perpetuating human misery and nihilism. Its postmodern discourse suppresses articulations of suffering, a facet of its accommodation to the inevitability of further, systematic desolation.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan et al</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. American anarchist and primitivist philosopher and author 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">99</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. “Against Civilization Readings & Reflections”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">What we have ... music is the same.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Technological society inevitably self-destructs – continuations of so-called “progress” inevitably lead to extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “Why Primitivism?”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2002</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, [[http://www.johnzerzan.net/articles/why-primitivism.html]], JPW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is no small ...</span><span class="DebateHighlighted" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> its inevitable close.”26</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to issue a wholesale indictment of civilization and mass society by rejecting the progressive mindset of the aff. We need a mindset shift to transition from a dependent society to a self sufficient society. As technicized society moves inexorably forward, collapse becomes imminent – the only question is whether we actively resist and work to break down civilization or passively allow ourselves to be destroyed</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Zerzan</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2006</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “Seize The Day”, [[http://johnzerzan.net/articles/seize-the-day.html]], JPW</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The rapidly mounting ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> spell was broken.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Cost Control CP]]Cost Control CP</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Cost threshold needs to be established BEFORE implementation. Prior Key, and established as successful in similar programs</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Puentes 08 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Robert, Senior Fellow Brookings Institute, “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>




<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lost in the ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> under similar accountability.</span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Absent CP – Cost overruns and waste is inevitable</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">De Rugy and Mitchell 11 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Veronique de Rugy, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, former resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, policy analyst at the Cato Institute, and research fellow at the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, holds an M.A. in Economics from the University of Paris IX-Dauphine and a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Paris Pantheon-Sorbonne, and Matthew Mitchell, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, holds an M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics from George Mason University, 2011 “Would More Infrastructure Spending Stimulate the Economy?,” Mercatus Center Working Paper Number 11-36, September, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, p. 6)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Four years into ... the long term.</span>





**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">This Collapses competitiveness</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Puentes 08 </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Robert, Senior Fellow Brookings Institute, “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking American Transportation For The 21st Century,”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2008/6/transportation%20puentes/06_transportation_puentes_report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Right now, federal ... and our families.</span>




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Great Power War and extinction</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baru 09 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sanjaya is a Visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009 , pages 163 – 168</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Hence, economic policies ... remains to be seen.</span>

===[[#States CP]]States CP=== 

**Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should ___.**

**Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states)


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative--Politics DA]]Politics DA</span>=== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama has a 77.5% chance of winning now</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The New York Times Blog, (FiveThirtyEight), September 22, 2012 Saturday</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sept. 22: Little Agreement Among Pollsters on 'Enthusiasm Gap'</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Saturday brought...probability estimates.”</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kraushaar, ’12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]], JD)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">If unemployment was...still runs high.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama key to solve warming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simpson, ’12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Walter and Nan, Buffalo News, 4/22/12, [[http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/viewpoints/article822432.ece]], JD)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Let’s not reverse... goes to Obama.”</span>

===[[#Oil DA]]Oil DA=== 

**Oil prices high now**
**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Mufson</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, Stephen. Washington Post, **__9/14__**/12, "</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Oil prices hit four-month high», </span>

**Increased US oil efficiency causes OPEC to flood**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Deseret</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">News</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">‘03</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">. [3/18, Lexis] </span>

**A decrease in US oil dependence collapses prices no matter what – hurts producers**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Georgia ‘01 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">- Environmental Policy Analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute (Paul, “Energy Independence: It Doesn’t Work,” </span>

**Oil is key to the Russian economy—every dollar decline in price costs 1.5 billion**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">HILL AND FEE 2002 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">(Fiona Hill is a fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, in Washington, D.C. Florence Fee is the CEO of F. C. </span>
== == 
==__**[[#Neg Strats]]Neg Strats**__== 

Valley Round 1, AFF: Launch Pads
1NC: Debris DA, Space Elevator CP, Anthro
2NR: Anthro

Valley Round 4, AFF: Ports
1NC: Apoch, Anthro, Oil DA, States CP, Dedev
2NR: Apoch

Valley Round 6, AFF: Port Dredging
1NC: Apoch, Anthro, Dedev, CCP, Politics
2NR: Apoch

Valley Round Octos, AFF: Grapes Of Wrath
1NC: Anthro
2NR: Anthro

Rosebowl Round 2, AFF: Mass Transit (Zizek)
1NC:Apoch, Anthro, Dedev
2NR: Anthro

Rosebowl Round 3: Aff: Rural Roads
1NC: Bikes CP, Dedev, Anthro
2NR: Anthro

U of M Round 2; Aff: Neoliberalism Zizek Mass Transit
2NR: Anthro

U of M Round 3; Aff: Electric Vehicles
2NR: Apoch

U of M Round Quarters, AFF: Integrated Infrastructure
1NR: Elections DA, Apoch, Anthro
2NR: Anthro

We also attended Glenbrooks, Michigan, and Dowling. 2NRs were all Anthro or Apoch.