[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=Title XI 1ac= 

==contention 1 is inherency – 0:25== 

====Current levels of Title XI funding non-unique Disads but are insufficient to solve==== 
**Meyers, 10/26** (Jessica, transportation reporter for POLITICO Pro. She comes to POLITICO from The Dallas Morning News, 10/26/12, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1012/82928.html?hp=r10-http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1012/82928.html?hp=r10]], "U.S. cruise industry: President Obama letting us sink," ADM)
The maritime agency also highlighted %24354 million it has handed ports through recent TIGER
AND
only %24350 million and about %241 billion worth of pending applications.


====Thus the plan:==== 

====The United States Federal Government should expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.==== 

==contention 2 is iran== 

===scenario 1 is naval power=== 

====Three internal links to naval power— first, a strong shipbuilding industry is critical to produce the ships that underlie our navy and global leadership — the plan ramps up demand which is uniquely key==== 
**Alberto, et al., 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, "SHIPBUILDING", The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech) </span>

In conclusion, our study found that the tremendous advantage the US enjoys in naval
AND
skyrocket out of proportion to the value to the nation of the vessel.

====Second, American shipbuilders are solely military suppliers which drives up costs — the plan diversifies the sector and staves off naval collapse==== 
**Alberto, et al., 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, "SHIPBUILDING", The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech) </span>

This dichotomy—being the current world leader in naval construction at the same time
AND
fiscally viable to invest in modernization and efficiency initiatives necessary for modern construction.

====Third, rapid response – seabasing allows power projection and high tempo operations that are key to conflict de-escalation==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">-Title XI stipulates an increase in the "Seabase" Program</span>
**Hanlon 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – General Edward Hanlon, US Marine Corps. Feb 26, 2004. FDCH Testimony.</span>

The inherent mobility, security, and flexibility Sea Strike describes the naval capabilities to
AND
System, will move us toward a truly integrated C2 architecture. Organizational Concepts


====Increased naval power is critical to maintain nuclear primacy and credibility==== 
**Vego, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., "On Naval Power", Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)</span>

Blue water navies play a critical role in providing support to national and military (
AND
Russian Federation, Britain, France, and the People~’s Republic of China.


====Loss of primacy leads to nuclear war – perception heightens the link==== 
**Caves 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – John P. Caves Jr., Senior Research Fellow In The Center For The Study Of Weapons Of Mass Destruction At The National Defense University, January 2010, "Avoiding A Crisis Of Confidence In The U.S. Nuclear Deterrent," Strategic Forum, No. 252</span>

Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent as described above would have
AND
scale far more catastrophic than what nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.

====Independently, nuclear primacy keeps war from escalating – deterrent effect==== 
**Lieber and Press 6 ~~[Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press Lieber — Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University~’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service.**
**Press — Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. "The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy march/April 2006 – Foreign Affairs Published by the Council on Foreign Relations SMerchant~~]**

THE SUCCESS of nuclear deterrence may turn out to be its own undoing. Nuclear
AND
.S. president may confront an escalating crisis without any acceptable options.


====Increased naval power key to deter Iran from closing the Straight of Hormuz and mitigate the effects==== 
**Kagan 1/4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frederick W., "Strait Talk with Iran: The U.S. should make clear to Tehran that closing shipping lanes won~’t be tolerated" January 4, 2012, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104-http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jan/04/opinion/la-oe-kagan-iranian-threats-demand-a-strong-respon-20120104]] 2012 - Resident scholar and director of the Critical Threats Project at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research~~]</span>

Iran~’s threat to close a vital international waterway if stricter sanctions are imposed on Iranian
AND
kind of hesitation at this moment would be the real and dangerous provocation.


===Iranian Heg=== 

====Independently, Increased naval power is necessary to stop Iranian primacy==== 
**Singh 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Managing editor of the Washington Institute (Michael, "The Real Iranian Threat in the Gulf" January 3, 2012, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/the-real-iranian-threat-in-the-gulf)</span>

Even if Iran ignored these considerations and proceeded with an effort to close the Strait
AND
belligerence nor passivity, but a robust posture that makes Tehran think twice.


====Iranian hegemony devolves the Middle East into a regional nuclear war==== 
**Ben-Meir 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at New York University (Alon, "Realpolitik: Ending Iran~’s defiance", 2/6/12, UPI, , [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/-http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/02/06/Realpolitik-Ending-Irans-defiance/UPI-69491170778058/]]</span>

NEW YORK, Feb. 6 (UPI) — That Iran stands today able
AND
to warn Iran of the severe consequences of not halting its nuclear program.

===Scenario 2 is oil dependence=== 

====The plan increases investment in the Marine Highway – reduces congestion and dependence on foreign oil==== 
**Margaronis, 08**~~[Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, [[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php~~%23ixzz1yY1CGarw-http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php]]~~]

Currently, the United States is experiencing low levels of investment in transportation, clean
AND
generate a national economic stimulus by lowering transportation costs for shippers and consumers.

====Iran will close the Strait of Hormuz due to our oil dependence and that sparks a US-Iran war==== 
**Smoltczyk 1/31** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– World Famous German Reporter (Alexander, January 31, 2012, "Risk of ~’Accidental~’ Gulf War on the Rise," http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/show-of-force-in-strait-of-hormuz-risk-of-accidental-gulf-war-on-the-rise-a-812199.html)DR. H</span>
The concentration of naval power in the Strait of Hormuz is heightening the risk of
AND
on its oil exports — which has been the case since last Monday.

====Closing the strait causes oil shocks that decimate the economy and is the most likely scenario for great power conflict==== 
**Klare, 1/31** (Michael, Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America~’s Growing Petroleum Dependency (Metropolitan). Klare also teaches at Amherst College, Smith College, Mount Holyoke College, and the University of Massachusetts Amherst, 1/31/12, http://obrag.org/?p=53517, "Why Closure of the Strait of Hormuz Could Ignite a War and a Global Depression," ADM)
All of a sudden, the Strait of Hormuz has become the most combustible spot
AND
either side might prove calamitous and turn mutual rhetorical belligerence into actual conflict.

==contention 3 is the economy== 

====Low growth is expected for 2013 – more stimulus is needed==== 
**Reuters, 11/16** (Reuters, citing Lockhart, Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President, 11/16/12, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/16/usa-fed-lockhart-idUSW1E8M703C20121116-http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/16/usa-fed-lockhart-idUSW1E8M703C20121116]], "Lockhart says U.S. economy in need of Fed stimulus," ADM)
Nov 16 (Reuters) - The U.S. labor market has provided
AND
automatic tax hikes and spending cuts set to take hold early next year.

====Title XI is key to solve the economy – Two internal links – First is stimulus, Title XI has a huge multiplier effect that sustains the job market==== 
Heim and Tedesco, 9 — General Dynamics NASSCO, AND, Tedesco Consulting (Aimee and Matt, "A Shipbuilder~’s Assessment of America~’s Marine Highways", 7/30/2009, http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf, Deech)
***Note: AMH = America~’s Marine Highways
Series vessel production can also result in significant economic stimulus. The Shipbuilder~’s Council of
AND
environmentally friendly technologies while creating middle-class job opportunities for future generations.


====Second, exports – solves the economy in the short term==== 
U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">("America~’s Marine Highway Report to Congress" April 2011 [[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf-http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]])</span>

In 2000, FHWA estimated that each vehicle-mile traveled by trucks adds between
AND
to handle RoRo ships at an investment cost of %245 million each.

====Economic decline and volatility heightens the risk of nuclear global conflict—multiple scenarios==== 
**Burrows and Harris - Counselor in the National Intelligence Council, Member at the National Intelligence Council - 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mathew J. Burrows, </span>Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—an unclassified report by the NIC published every four years that projects trends over a 15-year period, has served in the Central Intelligence Agency since 1986, holds a Ph.D. in European History from Cambridge University, and Jennifer Harris, Member of the Long Range Analysis Unit at the National Intelligence Council, holds an M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University and a J.D. from Yale University, 2009 ("Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis," </span>The Washington Quarterly<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 32, Issue 2, April, Available Online at http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf, Accessed 08-22-2011, p. 35-37)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample ~~[end page 35~~] opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity.</span>
Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.


====Analysts and historical data disprove ALL your impact takeouts==== 
**Schrage ~’9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative~’s Office, State Department and Ways %26 Means Committee, It~’s not just the economy, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>


Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, analysts at the World Bank
AND
economics and security are intertwined in most of the critical challenges we face.

====Diversionary wars due to economic collapse lead to great power wars between the US, Russia, and China==== 
**Friedberg ~’9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University~’s Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, The Dangers of a Diminished America, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

If America now tries to pull back from the world stage, it will leave
AND
the early stages of its emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power.

==contention 5 is solvency== 

====Steady federal Title XI funding key to revitalize the shipbuilding industrial base, generate jobs and maintain defense capabilities==== 
**AMO ~’12** ~~[American Maritime Officer "Title XI loan guarantees generate U.S. shipbuilding jobs," May 2012, [[http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf-http://www.amo-union.org/News/2012/201205/201205.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">~~]</span>

As the subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies devel
AND
the Title XI program in appropriations leg- islation for Fiscal Year 2013.

====Title XI loan guarantees are critical==== 
MHC, 10 (Marine Highways Cooperative, industry group dedicated to developing inland waterways, "Matsuda draws connections: Maritime administrator views U.S.-flag shipping from shore to sea", 9/25/2010, http://www.marinehighways.org/index.php?page=news_events%26more=44, Deech)
Maritime Administrator David T. Matsuda strongly believes U.S.- flag shipping~’s well
AND
operators. "Then you starve the program," he told American Shipper.

====Title XI is key to private sector participation – spills over==== 
MARAD 11 – Maritime Administration ("America~’s Marine Highway Report to Congress," US Department of Transportation, April 2011, http:// www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)

Marine Highway Title XI Loan Guarantees The Title XI Federal Ship Financing Program, administered
AND
would be vessel owners and operators and, potentially, shoreside infrastructure owners.

====USFG investment is key to jumpstart private industries==== 
Barry 10—<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Wired Contributor (Keith, "DOT to Turn Underused Waterways Into Marine Highways", July 23, 2010, http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/07/dot-turns-underused-waterways-into-marine-highways/)//NJain</span>

Some short sea shipping operations are already moving freight in the United States, and Matsuda wants to help them expand. "These are the experts, these are people who have started up new markets in the past," he said. "They know the industry, they know the people and the operations."
Matsuda is clear about engaging existing operators. "The government~’s role here is really to help promote these and get them up and running," he said.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> "</span>We can talk to local transportation planners and say, ~’Hey, here are some of the federal programs that help.~’ There~’s a limited amount of federal dollars to put towards buying cranes or barges or fixing up a port or something that we need to have up and running."
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Some projects are economic no-brainers, such as moving overweight or hazardous materials, where the cost of obtaining road permits would be prohibitive for truck shipments. In most cases, however, </span>in order for a project to make sense and for shippers to make money,MARAD must identify corridors with strong two-way traffic so empty ships don~’t ply the waters.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A good example of such a project is a proposed Green Trade Corridor in California, a project funded by %2430 million of TIGER funds that connects the inland agricultural areas and the Port of Oakland by a marine highway.</span>
Currently, goods from Asia come into the port of Oakland and are trucked across the state while agricultural products are trucked in the opposite direction. "It~’s a tax on commuters, and it adds to the congestion, beats up the bridges and raises the cost of maintaining infrastructure," said Matsuda<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. "It~’s not just getting the trucks off the road, but also putting people to work in some of these areas that are really devastated."</span>
A marine highway would move some of that traffic onto barges


and guarantee two-way traffic for the company operating the barges.
=1AC= 

==Contention 1: Inherency== 

**No national infrastructure bank exists in the status quo**
**Nutting, MarketWatch~’s international commentary editor, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rex, 6/1/12, MarketWatch, LexisNexis, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true%26risb=21_T14985586187%26format=GNBFI%26sort=BOOLEAN%26startDocNo=1%26resultsUrlKey=29_T14985586195%26cisb=22_T14985586193%26treeMax=true%26treeWidth=0%26csi=256932%26docNo=1-http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true%26risb=21_T14985586187%26format=GNBFI%26sort=BOOLEAN%26startDocNo=1%26resultsUrlKey=29_T14985586195%26cisb=22_T14985586193%26treeMax=true%26treeWidth=0%26csi=256932%26docNo=1]] "Investments in the Future Have Dried Up", IS)</span>

Just %2462 billion of the stimulus took the form of investments in infrastructure,
AND
but what will our grandchildren think of the legacy we are leaving them?


==Thus, the Plan== 

====The United States Federal Government should invest in transportation infrastructure through a National Transportation Infrastructure Investment Bank.==== 


==Advantage 1: Competitiveness== 

====Our Transportation Infrastructure is in a state of disrepair – innovative solutions are key==== 
**AP, 10/8** (Associated Press, 10/8/12, CBS New, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505245_162-57527722/why-it-matters-infrastructure/, "WHY IT MATTERS: Infrastructure," ADM)
Much of America~’s infrastructure, including its interstate highway system, is more than half
AND
most revenue could also neglect rural areas and poor inner-city neighborhoods.¶

====Only the plan solves – innovative funding solutions now are key==== 
**Lonardo, Congressional Press Secretary, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sara Lonardo, 1/24/11, "DeLauro, Colleagues Introduce Job-Creating National Infrastructure Development Bank Act," http://delauro.house.gov/release.cfm?id=3023, ESW)</span>
With today~’s budget constraints, innovative financing solutions are needed to invest in critical infrastructure
AND
Weiner in sponsoring this job-creating legislation," said Congressman Steve Israel.

====Global competitiveness is on the brink – the plan ensures a long term solution==== 
**Rep. DeLauro, Congresswoman, 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rosa DeLauro, 6/21/11, "DeLauro: Now Is the Time for a National Infrastructure Bank to Build Roads," http://www.rollcall.com/features/Transportation-2011_Policy-Briefing/policy_briefings/Rosa-DeLauro-National-Infrastructure-Bank-207558-1.html, ESW)</span>

As the debt ceiling talks reach a crescendo, President Barack Obama is rightly pointing
AND
Now is the time to make this vital investment in our nation~’s future.

====Loss of Competitiveness results in great power conflict—collapses US hegemony==== 
**Khalilzad 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 ("The Economy and National Security," </span>National Review<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, February 8</span>^^th^^<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)</span>

Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.

====Great power wars==== 
**ZHANG AND SHI 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Yuhan, a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. *** AND*** Lin, Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. "America~’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry" [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/-http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])</span>
Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously
AND
forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


==Advantage 2: Growth== 

====Stalling growth now – unemployment still high==== 
**Lowrey, 9/27** (Anna, reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times. She previously worked for Slate, Foreign Policy, and The New Yorker. Ms. Lowrey is a graduate of Harvard University, 9/27/12, Washington Post, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/28/business/economy/last-quarters-growth-is-revised-down-sharply.html, "Last Quarter~’s Growth Is Revised Down Sharply," ADM)
WASHINGTON — The Commerce Department said Thursday that the United States economy grew at an
AND
stuck between 8.1 percent and 8.3 percent all year.

====Current unemployment rates are inhibiting full economic recovery==== 
**Rugaber, reporter for the Associated Press, 6/22 (Christopher S, "Weak Job Market Impairs Recovery," 6/22/12, [[**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.montgomeryadvertiser.com/article/20120622/BUSINESS/306220015/Weak-job-market-impairs-recovery-http://www.montgomeryadvertiser.com/article/20120622/BUSINESS/306220015/Weak-job-market-impairs-recovery]])</span>

The sluggish job market is weighing on the U.S. economy three years
AND
, chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities, in a note to clients.

====NIB is vital to rebuilding infrastructure and boosting employment==== 
**O~’Connell, Expert Business Commentator, ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian O~’Connell, Expert commentator on business, Newsweek and the Wall Street Journal writer, Author of </span>Investing in Separate Accounts<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, worked in Philadelphia Stock Exchange, 9/06/11 "Obama Paving Way For Infrastructure Bank," http://www.thestreet.com/story/11239717/1/obama-paving-way-for-infrastructure-bank.html, ESW)</span>
After the Labor Department announced last week that trims in government jobs meant the economy
AND
Americans working again, Congress will be hard pressed to close it down.


====NIB Lowers Unemployment and spurs economic growth – creates middle class jobs==== 
**Lonardo, Congressional Press Secretary, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sara Lonardo, 1/24/11, "DeLauro, Colleagues Introduce Job-Creating National Infrastructure Development Bank Act," http://delauro.house.gov/release.cfm?id=3023, ESW)</span>

Washington, DC— Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Keith
AND
into jobs and private ingenuity into public benefit," said Congressman Anthony Weiner.

===Scenario 1: Recovery=== 

====US crisis tanks the global economy==== 
**RAHMAN ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . "Another global recession?". August 21. [[http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461-http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461]])</span>

Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear. First
AND
we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession.


====Double-dip risks nuclear war==== 
**FORDHAM ~’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tina Fordham, "Investors can~’t ignore the rise of geopolitical risk", Financial Times, 7-17-2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html-http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html]])</span>

Geopolitical risk is on the rise after years of relative quiet – potentially creating further
AND
would be a very unwelcome time to see the return of geopolitical risk."

====Economic decline and volatility heightens the risk of nuclear global conflict—multiple scenarios==== 
**Burrows and Harris - Counselor in the National Intelligence Council, Member at the National Intelligence Council - 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mathew J. Burrows, </span>Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—an unclassified report by the NIC published every four years that projects trends over a 15-year period, has served in the Central Intelligence Agency since 1986, holds a Ph.D. in European History from Cambridge University, and Jennifer Harris, Member of the Long Range Analysis Unit at the National Intelligence Council, holds an M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University and a J.D. from Yale University, 2009 ("Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis," </span>The Washington Quarterly<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 32, Issue 2, April, Available Online at http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf, Accessed 08-22-2011, p. 35-37)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample ~~[end page 35~~] opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity.</span>
Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

===Scenario 2 : Protectionism=== 

====Unemployment causes backlash against free trade and China bashing==== 
**JIMENEZ ~’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Master~’s student at Georgetown University; degree in political science and international relations from CIDE, Mexico City. ("Protectionism Makes Comeback As Recovery Stalls", http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/01/protectionism-makes-comeback-as-recovery-stalls/)</span>

As a result, protectionism could gain weight in the upcoming months and while it
AND
Perhaps, in this sense, China~’s comparative advantage is its very authoritarianism?


====Protectionism sparks terrorism and nuclear war==== 
**Panzner 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, "Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse," p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

==Advantage 3: State Budgets== 

====State budget cuts destroys bioterror responsiveness==== 
**AHLERS ~’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- senior producer, transportation and regulation, for CNN (Mike M., "Bioterror security at risk", December 20, http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2011/12/20/bioterror-security-at-risk/)</span>

Recent and proposed budget cuts at all levels of government are threatening to reverse the
AND
largely unprepared for a large-scale bioterror attack or deadly disease outbreak.

====Strong federal signal is critical to boost states~’ confidence and solve the budget crisis==== 
**JOHNSON ET AL ~’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Nicholas Johnson- graduate degree from Duke University~’s Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Director of the State Fiscal Project, which works to develop strategies for long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, encourage low-income tax relief, and improve the way states prioritize funding, received the Ian Axford Fellowship in Public Policy, a program financed by the New Zealand government and administered by Fulbright New Zealand. Through this fellowship, he spent six months as an advisor to the New Zealand Treasury and the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development. AND*** Iris J. Lav- created the State Fiscal Analysis Initiative, a network of nonprofit organizations that work on state budget issues. The SFAI network began with 11 state organizations in 1993 and now operates in 31 states with groups in seven other states under development. In 1999, she received the Steven D. Gold award for contributions to state and local fiscal policy. Holds an MBA from George Washington University and an AB from the University of Chicago. AND*** Elizabeth McNichol- M.A. in Political Science University of Chicago. Senior Fellow specializing in state fiscal issues including methods of examining state budget processes and long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, served as Assistant Research Director of the Service Employees International Union in Washington, D.C. was a staff member of the Joint Finance Committee for the State of Wisconsin Legislature specializing in property taxes and state aid to local governments (Nicholas, Iris J. Lav,Elizabeth McNichol, " Additional Federal Fiscal Relief Needed to Help States Address Recession~’s Impact ", March 1, http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view%26id=2988)</span>

There are a number of reasons for these lags in state fiscal recovery<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
In the last two recessions, the unemployment rate continued climbing for 15 to
AND
other key state services to make it through this unusually painful economic downturn.



====Minimizing the death toll is crucial – large casualties ensure nuclear retaliation==== 
**CONLEY ~’3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lt Col Harry W. is chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, Headquarters Air Combat Command (ACC), Langley AFB, Virginia. Air %26 Space Power Journal – Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)</span>

The number of American casualties suffered due to a WMD attack may well be the
AND
be more than just a possibility, whatever promises had been made."48


====Bioterror attack risks high==== 
**IRC ~’1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (11-20-1, "How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?" IRC, [[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html-http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]]) </span>

Nuclear deterrence is a leading U.S. strategy to counter threats of biological
AND
Using nuclear weapons would make the U.S. a pariah state.


==Contention 3: Solvency== 

====A one-time investment into the Infrastructure Bank empirically solves and avoids all turns==== 
**LIKOSKY ~’11** – a senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Michael B., July 12, "Banking on the Future", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/opinion/13likosky.html)

FOR decades, we have neglected the foundation of our economy while other countries have
AND
and to advance its values is possible only if we possess modern infrastructure.


====The bank more than halves our unemployment rate==== 
**MSNBC ~’11** ("Bank plan would help build bridges, boost jobs", July 6, http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/43606379/ns/business-eye_on_the_economy/~~%23.T7QxBlKbw1A)

China announced last week that it opened the world~’s longest sea bridge and added a
AND
in transportation infrastructure creates between 27,800 and 34,800 jobs.

====A national bank devoted just to transportation will revitalize U.S. infrastructure —- it will be easy on the budget and politically palatable==== 
**Lovaa, 11** —- **Federal Transportation Policy Director** for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, "An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,"
[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html-http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]], JMP)

Another creative funding idea that~’s getting some attention lately is a national infrastructure bank
AND
good use of our limited public funds to vastly improve the status quo.




=Negative= 
===Politics - Fiscal Cliff=== 

====Fiscal cliff will be resolved- both sides optimistic====
**Mascaro 11-16**(Lisa Mascaro, The Los Angeles Times, November 16 2012, Obama, Hill leaders optimistic on fiscal cliff, http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-obama-hill-leaders-fiscal-cliff-20121116,0,5966022.story,PS)
WASHINGTON — Emerging from a closed meeting with President Obama at the White House on
AND
. We have a plan; we~’re going to move forward on it."

====Transportation policies drain political capital and spur partisan fights====
**Freemark ~’12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – "On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum" – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum</span>/)

President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation~’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

====Obama must use capital to secure a fiscal cliff solution—key to avoid global depression====
**Sullivan, 11/9**
(The Daily Dish, "Now, Govern," http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html)
I~’m as amazed as everyone else by the results on Tuesday night, and they~’re
AND
But the president needs to be bold; and magnanimous. And fast.

====Sequestration would be catastrophic for our national security and would trigger upheaval in the Middle East====
**Hutchison**, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **9/21**/2012
(Kay Bailey, "A Looming Threat to National Security," States News Service, Lexis)
Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a
AND
the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.

====That escalates globally and goes nuclear ====
**Primakov, ~’09 **(Yevgency, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Sciences in 2008, July-September 2009, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CDMQFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fhawk.ethz.ch%2Fserviceengine%2FFiles%2FISN%2F105702%2Fichaptersection_singledocument%2F71a40dca-23cb-411d-9c5d-a7ce495e2522%2Fen%2F12.pdf%26ei=ndKiUKSuJobYigLH8IGABQ%26usg=AFQjCNHNDNHFFr_J0IYsuZjNoZt18HNMLQ%26sig2=RpdwWxE0JtGaPxuFrS1gtw, "The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations," ADM)
The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in terms of its potential for¶ spreading globally
AND
that President Obama~’s position does not completely¶ rule out such a possibility.

===Elections - Obama Good=== 

====Obama holds narrow advantage in the election==== 
**Silver, 10/18** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nate Silver, Originally published 10-15, American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer. The accuracy of his November 2008 presidential election predictions—he correctly predicted the winner of 49 of the 50 states—won Silver further attention and commendation. The only state he missed was Indiana, which went for Barack Obama by 1%. He also correctly predicted the winner of all 35 Senate races that year. In April 2009, he was named one of The World~’s 100 Most Influential People by Time.In 2010, Silver~’s FiveThirtyEight blog was licensed for publication by The New York Times. The newly renamed blog, FiveThirtyEight: Nate Silver~’s Political Calculus,~~[7~~] first appeared in The Times on August 25, 2010. In 2012, FiveThirtyEight won a Webby Award as the "Best Political Blog" from the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, 10/18/12, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/18/gallup-vs-the-world/-http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/18/gallup-vs-the-world/]], "Gallup vs. the World," ADM)</span>
Other national polls show a race that is roughly tied on average, while state polls continue to indicate a narrow advantage of about two points for Pressident Obama in tipping-point states like Ohio. The forecast has Mr. Obama as a narrow favorite in the election largely on the basis of the state polls. (You can read my thoughts here on the challenge of reconciling state and national poll data.)

====Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay==== 
**Alden 6/14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, (Edward, "The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere" 6/14/12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/~~]</span>

Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads
AND
taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.

====Romney taking a tough stance against Iran – leads to war==== 
**Samuelsohn, 9/28** (Darren, senior energy %26 environment reporter for POLITICO Pro, 9/28/12, Politico, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81802.html-http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0912/81802.html]], "Mitt Romney: Mitt: Military action on Iran may not be needed," ADM)
"I can~’t take that option off the table — it must be something which
AND
Israel to unilaterally defend itself by intervening militarily to disarm a nuclear Iran.


====Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and terrorist attacks.==== 
**Russell -09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, </span>Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Security Studies Center)</span>

Iran~’s response to what would initially start as a sustained stand-off bombardment (
AND
U.S. massive response – a potential "Armageddon" scenario.
===Inflation DA=== 

====Inflation Low Now==== 
**Saphir, 9/24** (Ann, Correspondent, Chicago, 9/24/12, Reuters, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/24/us-usa-fed-inflation-paper-idUSBRE88N0PM20120924, "Inflation well anchored in U.S., not so much in UK: Fed paper," ADM)
(Reuters) - Longer-term U.S. inflation expectations have stayed
AND
crisis, but there was very little disagreement about inflation five years out.

====Stimulus increases inflation—erodes the dollar and floods the economy.==== 
**Zupan 11** — Mark Zupan, Dean of the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester, 2011 ("Stimulus Is a Recipe for Inflation," Kiplinger, March 30^^th^^, Available Online at http://www.kiplinger.com/printstory.php?pid=21057, Accessed 06-30-2012)
Our nation is flirting with resurrecting inflation to levels that are reminiscent of the grim
AND
and this money hits the economy, it will add to inflationary pressures.

===Cap K=== 
====Federal infrastructure projects are situated within history as a tool to integrate both the nation and the world into the global capitalist order of the US – This create an imperial ideology that justifies the ruthless expansion of capital into foreign markets and causes short-termism causes environmental collapse==== 
**Smith 8** (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3 2008, Muse)
By using the lens of political economy to focus on the New Deal~’s public works
AND
to recognize the historical impact of the New Deal~’s public works projects.[[14-http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html]]


====The impact is extinction – multiple scenarios==== 
**Brown, 05** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan, 05/13/2005, [[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm-http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]])</span>
The capitalist class owns the factories, the banks, and transportation-the means
AND
at large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.


====Vote neg – the purpose of the debate should be envisioning a different relationship toward the knowledge capital produces – only by situating ourselves as intellectuals outside of state politics can solvency start – reformism is the link means the perm gets co-opted too==== 
**Meszaros 8** (Istvan, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p323-328)
The unreality of postulation the sustainable solution of the grave problems of our social order
AND
synonymous with the withering away of the state as an ongoing historical enterprise.

===States=== 

====The 50 States and all relevant territories should <insert plan text>==== 


====State can build infrastructure while avoiding the link to politics==== 
**Edwards 11** – Director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute and the editor of [[www.downsizinggovernment.org-http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/]] ~~[Chris, October 21, 2011, "Infrastructure projects to fix the economy? Don~’t bank on it," [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html-http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html]]~~]

When the federal government is paying for infrastructure, state officials and members of Congress
AND
providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public. They~’re ready.
===Asteroids CP (against a Space Aff)=== 

====Text: NASA should substantially increase its efforts to survey NEOs including both ground- and space-based tracking programs.==== 

====CP solves space leadership and cooperation==== 
IRWIN I. SHAPIRO et al in 10<span style="font-size: 9pt;">,( Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair FAITH VILAS, MMT Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair MICHAEL A~’HEARN, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair ANDREW F. CHENG, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory FRANK CULBERTSON, JR., Orbital Sciences Corporation DAVID C. JEWITT, University of California, Los Angeles STEPHEN MACKWELL, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. JAY MELOSH, Purdue University JOSEPH H. ROTHENBERG, Universal Space Network, </span>Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies Space Studies Board Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, </span>THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES PRESS<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, [[http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending%20Planet%20Earth%20Prepub%202010.pdf)\-http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~planets/sstewart/reprints/other/4_NEOReportDefending Planet Earth Prepub 2010.pdf)/]]</span>
Many scientists, especially among the world~’s planetary scientists, have been concerned for well
AND
lead the sustained effort required to marshal the international community to ensure preparedness.
===Astropolitics K=== 

====The affirmative~’s call for space exploration and/or development is a Trojan Horse—dual-use capabilities ensure that the military capitalizes on space technologies to achieve new forms of political killing.==== 
Duvall and Havercroft 6 — Raymond D. Duvall, Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, and Jonathan Havercroft, Lecturer in Political Science at the University of Victoria, 2006 ("Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weaponization and the Production of Late-Modern Political Subjects," Paper Presented At The Annual Meeting Of The International Studies Association, Panel SC08: Reading Outer Space, March 22nd-25th, Available Online via All Academic at http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/9/8/6/8/p98680_index.html, Accessed 07-18-2011)
The weaponization of space—the act of placing weapons in outer space—has
AND
of global life—of each of these new modes of political killing.

====The impossible quest to secure life from itself can only result in extinction; and the affirmative~’s framework eliminates the VTL==== 
Dillon and Reid ~’9 **(Michael, Prof. of IR @ Lancaster University, Julian, Lecturer in IR @ King~’s College London, The Liberal Way of War: Killing to make life live, pgs. 30-33)**
One way of expressing the core problematic that we pursue in this book is,
AND
finitude, politically, has thus arisen an infinity of securitization and fear.

====The alternative is to reject the affirmative in lieu of problematizing space as a realm to be dominated.==== 

====Our strategy is key—contesting space as a site for control is the most effective method for preventing war==== 
Grondin, 06 **David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel "Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes" THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR**
Indeed, we have no way of knowing how other state leaders and non-
AND
opposite by allowing space weaponization to still be possible, if not inevitable.


==Neg Strategies for the Hoe-Down== 
Round 2: Elections and Case

Round 4: Elections

Round 5: Elections

Round 7: Kappeler PIC

Quarters: T - in the US and T - investment

Semis: Elections

Finals: Elections
==Neg Strats for UMich== 
Round 1: Cap K

Round 3: States and Elections

Round 5: Elections
==Neg Strats for Glenbrooks== 
Round 1: Politics, Util, Case

Round 3: Politics, Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]