[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="color: #000000;">I value **justice.** T</span>he nature of our relationships with and obligations towards others form the basis of the requirements of justice.

<span style="color: #000000;">Previous philosophical theories try to distill justice into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. For example, Kantian ethics establishes human dignity or reflective practical reason as the basis for all ethical reasoning. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">Emmanuel Levinas and... my own image.</span>//


<span style="color: #000000;">Other agents cease to be unique entities that exist independently of ourselves because all knowledge is said to stem from //our// systemic procedures for ethics. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">However,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> a sound basis for ethics requires a coherent understanding of the other. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #1f2734;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

//**<span style="color: #000000;">There the transcendental... possible at all.</span>**//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounter with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will so we could not distinguish our own autonomous action from the decisions of the other. This makes it impossible to concpetualize our autonomy. </span>

Thus we must respect the other.

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftnref|A]]<span style="color: #000000;">nthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

//If the otherness... look at God.//


**<span style="color: #000000;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> the AFF **burden** is to prove that animals are an other worthy of ethical consideration.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000;">Further,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> prefer this framework for two additional reasons:</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">First</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other,s. This also allows us to exclude anything outside of our defined interpretation of what the other is. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Anthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">//If we can... on the environment//.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">My thesis and sole contention is that a proper understanding of the other requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">A) </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">Animals constitute an other because we are unable to truly and fully understand them. </span>





<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>



//<span style="color: #000000;">It is useful...types of beings.</span>//





**<span style="color: #000000;">Further</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, differences between humans and animals are irrelevant. This dichotomy would thematize and totalize the other**<span style="color: #000000;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftn7|.]]</span>**</span>



B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>



//Our humanity is...of active invitation.//

==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate and value **Justice.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Justice is a social construct more than an absolute or transcendent set of principles. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kuflik</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Arthur Kuflik. “Hume on Justice to Animals, Indians and Women.” April 1998. Hume Studies Volume XXIV, Number I, pp. 53-70.</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://www.humesociety.org/hs/issues/v24n1/kuflik/kuflik-v24n1.pdf]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. BG</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Hume,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">all these extremes” [EPM 1881.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As a system that exists to effectively govern societal relationships, any scheme of justice must be based on the assumption that all of its members could flourish without infringing on the rights or desires of others. </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Barilan </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">People abuse and ... trying to do so.38</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **Demonstrating Moral Sociability.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that animals are not morally sociable creatures.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> survive, animals must violate the rights of other animals. Thus, they cannot coexist in a just society. **Barilan 2**</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The lion and ...</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> own moral sense.</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]