[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Next Gen== 


===Contention 1: Losing Air Traffic Control=== 

NextGen Won~’t get implemented – major financial %26 political support
**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
On the policy-side, there are several obstacles to NextGen that hinder progress
AND
of NextGen has planted seeds of doubt amongst stakeholders and potential NextGen beneficiaries.




Air traffic will double by 2025 bringing a total system collapse absent ATC upgrades
**Williams 9** (Genevra, J.D. Candidate at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law and B.B.A. from the University of Iowa, "GPS For The Sky: A Survey of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-(ADS-B) and its Implementation in the United States", Journal of Air Law and Commerce, Spring, 74 J. Air L. %26 Com. 473, Lexis)

Demand for air travel is on the rise. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA
AND
. Absent modernization, the consequences will be a total system collapse." 43


===Advantage 1: Economy=== 

Next Generation air transportation~’s key—modernizes traffic control and bolsters US economic recovery
**JPDO 7** "Business Case for the Next Generation Transportation System", 8/24, [[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/nextgen_business_case_ver_1.pdf-http://www.jpdo.gov/library/nextgen_business_case_ver_1.pdf]]

The Aviation Industry is Critical to the U.S. Economy: The aviation
AND
to ¶ develop implementation strategies that maximize economic value and minimize implementation risks.




It~’s reverse causal – Air Traffic Control failure collapses the global economy// – NextGen solves
**AIA 11** (Aerospace Industries Association, "Civil Aviation – Second to None", http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf)

ISSUE: The U.S. civil aviation industry plays a vital role in
AND
stays on schedule by fully funding FAA~’s capital and RE%26D accounts.



Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars
Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12
~~[Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook~~]bg
The political battle over America~’s future would be bitter, and quite possibly bloody.
AND
by an even more calamitous global war that killed approximately 60 million people.


===Advantage 2 – Warming=== 

Human-induced warming is happening now – it~’s indisputable
**Rahmstorf 8** (Richard, Professor of Physics of the Oceans – Potsdam University, "Anthopogenic Climate Change?", Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Ed. Zedillo, p. 42-49)

It is time to turn to statement B: human activities are altering the climate
AND
that anthropogenic global warming is a reality with which we need to deal.



Warming causes extinction
Flournoy 12 — Citing Feng Hsu, PhD NASA Scientist @ the Goddard Space Flight
AND
Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book, p. 10-11)

In the Online Journal of Space Communication , Dr. Feng Hsu, a NASA
AND
too high for us to take any chances" (Hsu 2010 ) .



Plan solves through increased efficiency—reduces flight time and optimizes fueling
**SNS 11** (State News Service, Forefront of news reporting, 2/28, "AVIATION NOISE AND AIR QUALITY SYMPOSIUM", Lexis)

NextGen is also helping us to improve efficiency and to provide benefits through the
AND
U.S. to meet aviation transportation needs of the 21st century.





Airline emissions are the key contributors to climate change
**Sewill 5** – Brendon, vice president of the British Trust for Conservation Volunteers, "Fly Now, Grieve Later", [[http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf-http://www.aef.org.uk/downloads/FlyNowFull.pdf]]

Aviation is the industry with the fastest growing contribution to climate change. Between 1990
AND
global warming. Thus aviation is set to become the world~’s dirtiest industry.

===Advantage 3: Aerospace=== 

NextGen explicitly benefits the aerospace industry
**Bourgeois 10** (**Daniel Bourgeois, August 2010, Masters of Science, Science Technology and Public Policy, Rochester Institute of Technology, "The Next Generation Air Transportation System: An Answer to Solve Airport Efficiency?"page 24,25, http://gradworks.umi.com/1480274.pdf)**

There are six objectives that the JPDO set forth to accomplish. They are to
AND
in order to accomplish the six goals that were set for the system.



Strong aerospace key to overall US Hegemony—even a moderate decline in the industry would be disastrous
**Thompson 9** (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, "The Aerospace Workforce", Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)

Aerospace systems are of considerable importance to U.S. national security, economic
AND
in the common industrial supply base that our entire space sector relies on.




Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
**Barnett 11** (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]

It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.



===Advantage 4 is Agriculture:=== 




NextGen technology bolsters agricultural aviation- saves the ag industry and reduces run off
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 2-8-12 ~~["SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING EXAMINES GPS USE IN AVIATION INDUSTRY," [[http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1524-http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1524]]~~]

GPS is at the center of FAA~’s Next Gen air traffic control modernization program,
AND
and saves American farmers up to %2414-30 billion, annually."




Reducing runoff is essential to preventing phosphorous shortages and global famine
JAMES ELSER and STUART WHITE – 04/20/2010 Foreign Policy "Peak Phosphorus", [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/20/peak_phosphorus?page=0,1-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/20/peak_phosphorus?page=0,1]]

The effects of this resource shortage will be felt long before the last phosphorus atom
AND
all live in a world with cleaner rivers, lakes, and oceans.




Independently - Global agriculture stability is approaching the brink- US technology spreads globally and is key to global food security
Pardey and Alston ~’10 ~~[Philip G. Pardey is professor of science and technology policy in the Department of Applied Economics at the University of Minnesota, where he also directs the university~’s International Science and Technology Practice and Policy Center and former senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, and Julian M. Alston is a professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics of the University of California, Davis Washington D.C., "U.S. Agricultural Research in a Global Food Security Setting," [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100111_Pardey_USAgriRes_Web.pdf-http://csis.org/files/publication/100111_Pardey_USAgriRes_Web.pdf]]~~]

The United States has been pivotal to the crucial role of agricultural R%26D
AND
in the face of climate change and other challenges in the decades ahead.





Increased food prices will cause mass starvation killing 95% of the world
Adams 8<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, "The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human </span>Population", [[http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html-http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]])

So, to repeat, the food bubble is now starting to implode. What
AND
95% of humanity is just one crop season away from mass starvation.






===Plan=== 

PLAN: The United States Federal Aviation Administration should guarantee investment for Next Generation air transportation infrastructure in the United States

===Contention 3: Solvency=== 


Federal Loan guarantees are vital to NextGen investment
Carey ~’11 ~~[Bill, senior editor with Aviation International News, "Public-Private Partnerships Among Proposals to Advance NextGen," August, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen-http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2011-07-27/public-private-partnerships-among-proposals-advance-nextgen]]~~]

Although there is consensus about its ultimate benefits, NextGen faces a cost conundrum.
AND
, I could really kick start this by lowering the cost of capital."



Public private partnerships boost NextGen equipage while not raising costs
**ECT 12** [[(Eno Center for Transportation, "NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits, and Political Leadership", April, http://www.enotrans.org/wp-content/uploads/wpsc/downloadables/NextGen-paper.pdf-C:\Users\Owner\Downloads\(Eno Center for Transportation,]])

The preceding sections analyzed potential revenue sources ¶ for NextGen infrastructure funding. In this
AND
in congested airports by¶ enabling them to quickly load and unload passengers.




Private sector is ready to fund NextGen—federal government support key
**Gibbons 11** – Glen, editor and publisher of Inside GNSS, "Air Traffic Control Modernization: FAA, NextGen, GNSS, and Avionics Equipage", 4/30, Inside GNSS, [[http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2582/-http://www.insidegnss.com/node/2582/]]

The NextGen Equipage Fund believes it has the solution, a financing model that "
AND
the framework of the FAA technical standard orders for NextGen-capable avionics.




=Negative= 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]