=Announcement= 
These kids don't even lift.
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Sam also has chronic exhaustion.</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Love</span>
Joe

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">How we expect most debate rounds to go: https://vimeo.com/49096664</span>

[[toc]]
=Preface= 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">If you want 2ac sites, feel free email me at swolff13@brophybroncos.org.</span>
---
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">I am continuing Joe's charity service from last year, and sending pictures of Sam to anyone who asks, as part of an Earth-beautification project.</span>

If you're looking for cites, or pictures of Sam, email myself at [[mailto:jhegyi14@brophybroncos.org|jhegyi14@brophybroncos.org]] or [[mailto:swolff13@brophybroncos.org|swolff13@brophybroncos.org]] (but I can't promise that he will send you pictures of himself).

If it takes a long enough time that you want to risk poking the bear, email [[mailto:zanezor.waxman@gmail.com|zanezor.waxman@gmail.com ]]
=Aff= 

==1AC Brave New Aff== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Welcome to debate 2025 – the topic is, once again, “Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.”</span>//</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 1: We solve everything</span>__**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">scenario one is kindergartners key to US Heg:</span>//</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">State budget crisis forces cuts in technical K-12 education</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leachman et al ‘11</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Michael Leachman – Director of State Fiscal Research with the State Fiscal Policy division of the Center; holds a Ph.D. in sociology from Loyola University Chicago; policy analyst for nine years at the Oregon Center for Public Policy; AND</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">* Nicholas Johnson- graduate degree from Duke University's Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Director of the State Fiscal Project, which works to develop strategies for long-term structural reform of state budget and tax systems, encourage low-income tax relief, and improve the way states prioritize funding, received the Ian Axford Fellowship in Public Policy, a program financed by the New Zealand government and administered by Fulbright New Zealand. Through this fellowship, he spent six months as an advisor to the New Zealand Treasury and the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development; AND</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">* Erica Williams - M.A. in International Policy the Monterey Institute of International Studies; Policy Analyst with the State Fiscal Project; (Michael, Nicholas Johnson, Erica Williams, “State Budget Cuts in the New Fiscal Year Are Unnecessarily Harmful”, July 28,</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=3550]]</span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Since states spend more ….. </span>//</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">that students and their families will have to fill.</span>//</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">//__<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The budget also cuts state support for technical colleges by about </span>__//</span>**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">__<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">$70 million</span>__</span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> over the biennium, or 25 percent, and places a two-year freeze on local property tax levies that allow communities to raise funds for technical colleges.</span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">That destroys American primacy</span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Nas ‘7</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Committee on Prospering in the Global Economy of the 21st Century: An Agenda for American Science and Technology Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy, “RISING ABOVE THE GATHERING STORM Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future”, National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, July,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog/11463.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">China and India indeed </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…..there is no competition</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">And nuclear war.</span>//</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">IRC ‘1</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">(11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…… Using nuclear weapons would make the U.S. a pariah state.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A federal infrastructure bank is key</span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">COEA ‘12</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">- Council of Economic Advisers, Department of Treasury (“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, March 23,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget proposes a bold plan to renew and expand America’s infrastructure. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This plan includes</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> a $50 billion up-front investment connected to a six-year $476 billion reauthorization of </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> surface transportation program and</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> the </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">creation of a National Infrastructure Bank. The</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> President’s </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">plan would significantly increase investment</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> in …… </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">public and business sentiment regarding infrastructure investment.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario two is one port key to all heg ever:</span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">catastrophic events at Norfolk will leave the US __without__ an aircraft carrier force because it’s the only location in the US capable of CVN refueling</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">O’Rourke 12</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14,</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf]]</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Strategic dispersal: </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The strategic dispersal of surface ships</span>__ <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">…</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">repair infrastructure </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">supporting</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> those crucial assets.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Great power war</span>//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Brookes 8</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 1.5;">[[#|Heritage Foundation]]</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2k8 (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers</span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">quantity has a quality</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> all its own.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">//<span style="color: #4f81bd; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States. </span>//</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We solve and don’t you dare question it – durable fiat.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 22pt;">Contention Two: The Brave New Aff</span>__**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In 1932, Aldous Huxley published his dystopian classic, //Brave New World//, to demonstrate the dangers of the bureaucratization of modern life, 81 years later, in 2013, we bring you a Brave New Aff---we hope that our __performance__ of a dystopian world of debate can open your eyes to the dangerous trends of our activity and society…we could have been at Berkeley with all of our favorite judges who would be much more receptive to this argument, instead we are 3000 miles from our home in Phoenix, talking to you…we think this idea is worth spreading and discussing, and we hope you are willing to listen to what we have to say</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The first part of the 1AC was performing what the world of debate will look like if we keep down the path of illogical nuclear war scenarios and reliance on a bankrupt government institution. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have performed our criticism of this form of debate—you should be uncomfortable with the way we have presented contention 1. </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Policy debate has become a conditioned routine of “the United States federal government should”, and we soak it up round after round; we have come to believe that debate in any other form is impossible, Huxley describes the context for his brave new world in chapter 1:</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Chapter One</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A SQUAT grey building of only thirty-four stories. Over the main entrance</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All conditioning aims at that: making people like their unescapable social destiny."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our tournaments look more like ritualistic, apocalyptic orgies than scholarly endeavors, Huxley continues</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the tom-toms continued to beat their feverish tattoo: “Orgy-porgy, Ford and fun,</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Kiss the girls and make them One. Boys at one with girls at peace; Orgy-porgy **gives release**.”</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Instead of taking a hit of fiat in the face of a slew of extinction impacts, we must re-invent our politics to hold our institutions accountable for corporate corruption, just like Bernard refuses to take Soma in Chapter six</span>__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">He remained obstinately gloomy the whole afternoon; wouldn’t talk to Lenina’s friends (of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. And instead of feeling miserable, you’d be jolly. So jolly,”</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lindsey 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Dr Jason, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PhD in Political Science from Columbia University</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I. Introduction For the political scientist, Baudrillard's work on simulation and the hyperreal</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">our contemporary situation, is a greater challenge (see also Lindsey 2007).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, in chapter 16, “the Savage” who has lived outside of the Brave New World for his entire life ends up in dialogue with the World Controller, Mustapha Mond, the man in charge of social stability and conditioning---Mond decides to banish the critical thinkers to an island away from society, what will you decide to do with us?</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">THE ROOM into which the three were ushered was the Controller's study. "His</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, who's any one. I almost envy you, Mr. Watson."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">You are the Controller in the debate---you can affirm the Savage’s rejection of the fascist, fear-based state, or you can banish us to an island</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Livingston 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Alexander, Assistant Prof of Gov’t @ Cornell. postdoctoral fellow in the department of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and a doctoral fellow at the Centre for Ethics at the University of Toronto, Avoiding Deliberative Democracy? Micropolitics, Manipulation, and the Public Sphere, Philosophy & Rhetoric, Vol. 45, No. 3 (2012), pp. 269-294, Project MUSE</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deliberative democracy is a fantasy, and a dangerous one at that. A politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With it, nomads and barbarians lay siege to the gates of empire.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dystopianism can disrupt the overly conditioned practices of modern debate to open up new possibilities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith ’11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Brian, bachelor in English from Asbury College and MS in ethics and public policy from Suffolk University, and currently involved in the Boston University department of political science. Oct. 2011, from Philosophy and Literature, Vol. 35, Number 2, pp. 348-359, “Anti-Essentialism and Freedom in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World”, Project Muse) SW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When Huxley quotes the famous Jefferson line in Brave New World Revisited—"If a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of things to face up to the possibility of a radically divergent future.</span>


==1AC Ableism== 
= = 
===[[#x1AC-Emory-Contention One]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Contention One</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As debaters on this year’s resolution we are confronted with our nation’s failing transportation infrastructure. Unfortunately, our crumbling system of roads is deeply embedded within a system that excludes people who are constructed as disabled.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AAPD 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (The American Association of People with Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23,[[http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Congress is currently debating reauthorization of the surface transportation bill</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, with heated debate over spending amounts and policy needs. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">As the nation considers</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> its </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">transportation policy</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> for the 21st century, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">it is crucial to consider the needs of </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">all individuals</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> living in the United States, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">especially those who have</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> traditionally </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">been </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">left behind.</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND reliance on paratransit by individuals who are otherwise able to use mass transit.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Conventional norms in Policy debate would have us respond to this latent ableism by proposing the hypothetical enactment of specific policy action, Instead of waving a magic wand and pretending that our broken government will impose a utopian solution, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">vote aff to endorse a politics of mobility which destabilizes ablenormativity as a sociocultural apparatus in order to affirm the possibility of non-ableist transportation infrastructure investment by the federal government</span>__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Imrie 2K</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;"> (Rob, University of London Geography Professor , January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement [[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]] pg. 1652)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abstract. In this paper I seek to make a contribution to ‘geographies of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND the development and propagation of private-sector or corporate-sector responsibilities.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">And---instead of treating disability as a </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">negative problem</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> to be </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">cured by policy reform</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, our </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">scholarship</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> must deconstruct the assumed normality and perfectibility of the body. Voting aff acknowledges the the need to </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">accept the diversity of life worlds</span>__**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Campbell 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Fiona Kumari, Prof at Griffith Law School in Australia, Convenor of the Australasia’s largest postgraduate disability studies program in the School of Human Services & Social Work at Griffith, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Contours of Ableism: The Production of Disability and Abledness</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, pp 3-6)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My approach is three pronged. First, I explore the problem of speak- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND next section, the dividing practices of ableism are considered in more detail.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">And---legal approaches are fundamentally ableist, reintrenching exclusion---any efforts at reform will fail absent our analysis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Campbell 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Fiona Kumari, Prof at Griffith Law School in Australia, Convenor of the Australasia’s largest postgraduate disability studies program in the School of Human Services & Social Work at Griffith, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Contours of Ableism: The Production of Disability and Abledness</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, pp 31-39)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasingly law mediates medico-technological formulations of impairment. Many years ago it was </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND remains even after the litigation has ended and is difficult to shake off.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">And, the fight against oppression must destabilize Ableism---the naturalization of social inferiority as biological difference is the psychological primer for exclusion</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Siebers 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Tobin, University of Michigan, Professor of Literary and Cultural Criticism, “The Aesthetics of Human Disqualification”, Oct 28, Lecture, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCoQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fdisabilities.temple.edu%2Fmedia%2Fds%2Flecture20091028siebersAesthetics_FULL.doc&ei=LWz4T6jyN8bHqAHLkY2LCQ&usg=AFQjCNGdkDuSJkRXMHgbXqvuyyeDpldVcQ&sig2=UCGDC4tHbeh2j7-Yce9lsA]], accessed 7/7/12)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another. It is a form </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND represents at this moment in time the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority.</span>

===[[#x1AC-Emory-Contention Two]]<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">**Contention Two**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Which is to affirm the Model of Debate that cultivates critical democratic reflexivity and social justice---disability debates are incredibly important</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “citizenship and disability,” adapted from a talk given at the 2002 convention of the Arc of the United States (formerly the Association of Retarded Citizens of the United States).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over eleven years, then, we've come to expect that Jamie will defeat or </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND disability, we can have no account of democracy worthy of the name.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Our interrogation of ableism can revitalize our broader struggle for ethical democracy to end imperialist warmongering</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Giroux 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Henry A, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department., Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy , truth-out.org/opinion/item/68:left-behind-american-youth-and-the-global-fight-for-democracy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Within the last few months, we have seen an outpouring of student protests from </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND by the tawdry promises and failed returns of corporate dominated and authoritarian regimes.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">There is no objectively true form of debate</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lundberg 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;"> (Christian O, Master of the House of Theory, Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p306-313)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Because they are also citizens, students will inevitably be put in the position of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND their time and political energies toward policies that matter the most to them.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Ablenormativity is perpetuated via debate’s practices of statist advocacy, we are debating at the margins of normality in order to maintain reflexivity toward the presuppositions of the community---we are PERFORMING our critique of ableism via the style of our advocacy.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">**Cherney, 11** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">(James L, Wayne State University, Department of Communications, Assistant Professor 2011, Disability Studies Quarterly, “The Rhetoric of Ableism”,Vol 31, No 3, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/1665/1606]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Recognizing ableism requires a shift in orientation, a perceptual gestalt framed by the filter AND of conceiving ableist thinking as rhetorical practice identifies potential approaches for challenging ableism.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">1AC Snake River</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And---the Snake River has become a death trap for Salmon---juvenile smolts on their journey to the Pacific are shredded in turbines or overstressed</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Budy et al 2</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Impounded River… delayed hydrosystem mortality.</span>
=== === 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, the most comprehensive statistical and scientific evidence links salmon mortality to the hydrosystem---breaching the dams is critical</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Budy et al 2</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abstract.—The numbers … delayed hydrosystem mortality.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And---the dams are eviscerating the social fabric of the Columbia Basin---costs are downplayed and benefits are overstated---debates on removal must focus on DATA and STATISTICS</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hawley 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities (pp. 7-12). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dam-removal advocates … be accomplished with water.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds and land animals</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ave </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">O</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ur </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">W</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ild </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">almon</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, environmental advocacy group, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3/6/</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">2009</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Why Restore Wild Salmon?”, Save Our Wild Salmon,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Salmon and steelhead … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">of the Pacific Northwest</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And---Salmon predate humans in the pacific northwest by millennia---we must recalibrate our decision-making away from calculated exploitation of nature toward appreciation of balance and beauty</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lichatowich 1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB),Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis, pp 1-7, google books)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In earlier times, … high-quality environment for people?</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our relationship to salmon demonstrates our fundamental ecological assumptions</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lichatowich 1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB),Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis, pp 7-8, google books)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some people believe … the point of crisis.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This debate can democratize dam removal---citizens must challenge money-laced politics</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hawley 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities (pp. 67-70). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In addition to this kind of … and ears on the water.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must advocate dam removal in the face of political opposition</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bryant 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Levi, Morton on Incrementalism , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/) “[Institutional power]” added</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Well no, this is not what … There’s never an excuse for activist punching.</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Do it for the Bay!-Plan Text]]Plan Text</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">**The United States federal government should remove the following federally owned dams: Ice Harbor, Little Goose, Lower Monumental, and Lower Granite.**</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Do it for the Bay!-1AC Decision Calculus]][[#Affirmative-1AC Meadows-1AC Decision Calculus]]Decision Calculus</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">obsession with time-frame and “try or die” scenarios paves over ongoing ecological degradation</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nixon 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When Lawrence Summers, … ongoing, belated casualties.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">You should be highly skeptical of apocalyptic doomsaying</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gross and Gilles 12</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp123---125)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Flip through the … trends like global warming.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Catastrophe is a political device to silence the salmon</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Bryant 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Levi, Prof of Philosophy at Collins College, july 26, The Scandal of Political Realism,[[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/26/the-scandal-of-political-realism/]]) *[is] added</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s no wonder … that currently reign.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Confronting anthropocentrism in pedagogical circles is vitally important</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bell and Russel 2k</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Anne C. Bell, department of education, York University, Canada, and Constance L. Russel, Associate Professor, Faculty of Education, Lakehead University, Co-Editor, Canadian Journal of Environmental Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn,” CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 25, 3 (2000):188–203,[[http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf]])</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For this reason, … anthropocentrism passes unchallenged.1</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Plan text in Meadows Sems vs. Sage Ridge CL]][[#Negative]]<span style="font-size: 1.6em; line-height: 1.5;">Neg</span></span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Apocalypse K]]Apocalypse K</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Apocalypse K-1NC]]1NC</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">The aff is constructed in response to a deluded, paranoid vision of reality where the apocalypse is always just around the corner</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp123---125)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Flip through the … like global warming.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">And, their obsession with time-frame and “try or die” scenarios paves over the ongoing suffering of billions of impoverished people and environmental destruction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Nixon 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Rob, Rachel Carson Professor of English, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor, pp 1-14)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When Lawrence Summers, … ongoing, belated casualties.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Debate’s obsession with extinction is decimating our decisionmaking skills---students are brainwashed into paranoid apathy as we ignore empirical analysis</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp131---134)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EVENTS VERSUS TRENDS … is already here.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Alternative---wake up from the apocalyptic nightmare of contemporary debate---you are an educator evaluating the political rhetoric of the 1AC, use your ballot to spark a transition away from improbable extinction scenarios. Force them to re-evaluate their addiction to catastrophe. The plan might be a good idea, but only if it’s based in a realistic, value-based set of justifications</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gross and Gilles 12</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Matthew Barrett Gross is the editor of the Glen Canyon Reader and is a media strategist who has worked for Howard Dean's groundbreaking 2004 presidential campaign and Jon Tester's successful campaign for U.S. Senate in Montana. More Matthew Barrett Gross.Mel Gilles is a writer and a former advocate for victims of domestic abuse. Her essay, "The Politics of Victimization," went viral in 2004, reaching more than 2 million readers, //The Last Myth: What the Rise of Apocalyptic Thinking Tells Us About America, pp//</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">185-208)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At some point … prove us right.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Your first priority is to affect change within the debate community---instead of serving as a conduit for global fear-mongering day after day, tournament after tournament, debaters should learn to conduct our lives free from paranoia</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Pain and Smith 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Susan Smith, Professor of Geography at Durham University, Rachel Pain, social geographer at the University of Durham, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fear: Critical Geopolitics and Everyday Life</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 1-7)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fear is on … least partially dismantled.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">State K</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">State action and institutional ethics are steeped in white supremacy and erase the exploitation of the black body</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, award-winning author of Incognegro: A Memoir of Exile and Apartheid. He is one of two Americans to hold elected office in the African National Congress and is a former insurgent in the ANC’s armed wing, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">2003</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Frank B. III “Introduction: Unspeakable Ethics” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Red, White, & Black: Cinema and the Strucure of U.S.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Antagonisms, Pg 15-16) GG</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Regarding the Black …__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> awaits an answer.</span>

=== === 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our government is broken---outdated political designs have collided with partisan extremism and produced dysfunctional gridlock---</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Mann and__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">, Thomas E.; </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Ornstein__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">, Norman J. (20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__12__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">-05-01). It's Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism . Perseus Books Group. Kindle Edition. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">On January 26, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 14pt;">overcome dysfunctional politics</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Corruption in the US is accelerating</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Nation of Change 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (US Corporations, Politics getting more corrupt, surprising nobody, www.nationofchange.org/us-corporations-politics-getting-more-corrupt-surprising-nobody-1342098635</span>

<span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">nited </span><span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">S</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">liberal market democracy.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However---if you walk into a debate tournament, you wouldn’t know that any of these problems exist---we’re all happy to keep playing our game where the government operates smoothly, policy is made and implemented rationally---you know what they say, FIAT is a Helluva Drug</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Genovese 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Michael, Ph D Poli Sci USC, Chair of Leadership Studies at Loyola, Prof of Poli Sci, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Corruption and American Politics</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, whole Intro Chapter via Amazon reader)</span>

<span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">House member</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> Randy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span>

<span class="Box" style="background-color: #ffffff;">appearance than reality.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As a community, we’ve replaced our dysfunctional government with our flawless simulation---the imperialism of fiat has resulted in the precession of the simulacra of a perfectly functional government of the past, one we are secretly nostalgic for</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 83</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (sim and simulacrum, pp3-6)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">If once we … </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">strategy of deterrence.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nostalgia for a past form of functional politics is depoliticizing---Fiat has become religious doctrine within policy debate, instead of facing the reality of dysfunctional government, we keep on roleplaying and getting High on simulation</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lindsey 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Dr Jason, PhD from Columbia University and is currently Associate Professor and Chair of Political Science at St. Cloud State University, Baudrillard’s Simulated Politics and Debord’s Agents of Detournement, journal of baud studies vol 9 nmbr 3)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I. Introduction</span>

<span class="Box" style="background-color: #ffffff;">For the political … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">also Lindsey 2007).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AND---this debate is a question of methodology and Models of Debate---the entire aff project rests on the presupposition of Fiat---Instead of viewing debate as a fun game to play, we should interpret is a fundamentally political activity training the future leaders of the world---VOTE NEG to POLITICIZE the BALLOT, Shattering the illusion of FIAT and searching for new Models of Debate---they don’t get a perm because we are asking a PRIOR QUESTION</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Lundberg 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Christian O, Master of the House of Theory, Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p306-313)</span>

<span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Because they are</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">…</span>

<span class="Box" style="background-color: #ffffff;">cornucopia of materials.</span>

=== === 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Relying on the presupposition of Fiat over and over literally brainwashes debaters into political ignorance---their model of debate naturalizes corruption</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Le Cheminant 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Wayne, Assistant Prof of Poli Sci and Asian Studies at Cal Poly Pomona, Chapter 4: “Bending the Frames to Corrupt the Lenses,” in Corruption and American Politics, kindle reader)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">In this chapter, S</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">matter how spurious.</span>

==2NRs== 

**ASU Round 1**
Apoc K

**ASU Round 3**
Hagel DA

**ASU Round 5**
Apoc K

**Emory Round 1 vs. Nuclearism**
Anthro PIK

**Emory Round 3 vs. Guam**
State K

**Emory Round 5 vs. Modern Monetary Theory**
Cap K

**Golden Desert Round 1 vs. Zizek (cap version)**
Case

**Golden Desert Round 3 vs. Mass Transit**
State K

**Golden Desert Round 5 vs. Snake River**
T-Dams, lol.

**Harvard Round 2 vs. Race**

Read //Brave New World// as a counter-advocacy

**Harvard Round 3 vs. Race**

State K


==[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]==