=1AC Lane Tech: Port Security (Same as OVAL)= 
=1AC Blake: Port Security (Same as OVAL)= 
NOTE: Kris Trivedi will be debating with Alwin Alex at this tournament
=1AC Ohio Valley: Port Security= 
This is the most recent copy of the 1AC read by Lizzie Prete and Kris Trivedi at the Ohio Valley Tournament in Lexington, Kentucky
==Plan== 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its funding of port security.**
==Contention One is Terrorism== 
====**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the federal level.</span>

====**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/26/12)</span>
As Mike Shuster ....<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> highly enriched uranium.¶</span>

====**Terrorists have the motive to attack**==== 
====**A. The anti-muslim video**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span>** (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> .....</span> be a miracle.”

====**B. The assassination of Bin Laden**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LA Times 5/7</span>** (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad.....<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> killed were militants.</span>

====**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Maerli 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A striking parallel......</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a nuclear explosive.</span>
====**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo .....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Congressional Research Service. </span>

====**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Calvan 12** (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland ......</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> called “dirty bombs.’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’¶</span>

====**Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurst 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2/8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .....</span> the U.S. economy.

====**Extinction**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span>** (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME)
A nuclear attack ...... all be losers.

====**Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
A terrorist nuclear .....<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of nuclear restraint.</span>

====**War with Russia outweighs - It’s the only existential risk**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]<span style="background-color: white;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A much greater ...... in the 21st century.</span>

====**New science and innovation makes bio-terrorism easier**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 9-7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capabilities for producing .......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> era of megaterror.</span>

====**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general .......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

====**That causes extinction**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons ...... EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>

====**A port attack shuts down naval power**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Watts 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Connecting the continental .......</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the experience? </span>

====**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Navy .....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">overburdened airlift resources. </span>

====**Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In light of ......</span> at a “tipping point.”

==Contention Two is Economy== 

**Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy. Their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just recession induced dips**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator ...... up international trade.</span>

**Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark et al. 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why? Because</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in this ..... any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

**Collaspe spills over globally resulting in worldwide economic gridlock**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman, 2010</span>** (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf)

Scenario Three: Direct .....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">run out of food.</span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bearden, 2k</span>** (Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve it Quickly”, June 24, [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm]])
History bears out ......<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> least for many decades.\</span>

**New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">counter-terrorism</span><span style="line-height: 24px;">__.....__</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">negative feedback effects</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__