[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Wake Forest 1ac== 
**Contention One is the Slums**
<span class="Underline">**We begin with the introduction to our affirmative from**</span>
**Grengs ’04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan ( Joe, CITY, VOL. 9, NO. 1, APRIL, “The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA”, http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf//JC)</span>

Imagine a bus stop in a typical working class neighbourhood of inner-city L<span class="Underline">os </span>A<span class="Underline">ngeles, ....And yeah, you have a good point.” (del Barco, 1997, p. 1)</span>


<span class="Underline">**The drive for capitalist gain has seen a shift in the goal of transit, from assisting those who can’t afford cars, to helping to promote white sprawl and segregate urban communities**</span>
**Grengs ’04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan ( Joe, CITY, VOL. 9, NO. 1, APRIL, “The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA”, http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf//JC)</span>
<span class="Underline">Hidden </span>behind<span class="Underline"> the surge of national headlines about sprawl,.... causing planners to lose sight of the public purpose of mass transit.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Capitalism is applying its stranglehold to public transportation, that worsens inequality, devalues lives and creates continuous war**</span>
**Grengs ’04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan ( Joe, CITY, VOL. 9, NO. 1, APRIL, “The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA”, http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf//JC)</span>
<span class="Underline">In an emerging world order where </span>capitalism spreads <span class="Underline">American-style </span>to all <span class="Underline">corners of </span>the globe,..... <span class="Underline">a shift that is likely to harm those who depend most on good transit.</span>

**This creates slums, filled with an urban underclass – The system uses racism and classism to legitimize its failures**
**Wilson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carter, professor of political science at the University of Toledo, The Dominant Class and the Construction of Racial Oppression: A Neo-Marxist/Gramscian Approach to Race in the United States, Google Scholars) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the final analysis, several additional points need to be made about a neo-Marxist analysis of contemporary racial oppression and racist culture. .......</span>__. This approach offers a deeper and richer analysis of contemporary racism.__



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, Capitalism builds transportation systems that promote consumerism, thus causing massive environmental catastrophe – We must advocate a mass expansion of public transit</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Townsend Managing Editor 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Terry, managing editor, Individual Versus Social Solutions to Global Warming)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have to convince millions of people and build a mass movement.....</span> <span style="background-color: yellow;">in ways that capitalism is inherently incapable of doing</span>**.** 





**These excluding and homogenizing practices prevent coalition and organization of the masses and causes extinction – We must allow the spector of Communism to reemerge** 
<span class="Underline">**Zizek 09**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, “Censorship Today: Violence, or</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ecology as a New Opium for the Masses” [[http://schwarzemilch.files.wordpress.com/2009/02/censorship-today.pdf]]//HH)jc</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last but not least</span>__, new forms of apartheid, new Walls and slums......__ __is to help a new mode of existence of the hypothesis to deploy__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**The communism we speak of is not an ideal, but a movement that reacts to contradictions in the capitalist system – This vision of communism is thwarted by a perceived lack of revolutionary subject** 
**Žižek****09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana (New Left Review 57, May-June 2009, “How to Begin at the Beginning” http://www.newleftreview.org/II/57/slavoj-zizek-how-to-begin-from-the-beginning)JC</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So where are we today, ......</span>__Why insist on the communist hypothesis, against all odds__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>



**Transportation infrastructure is the bastion of global capitalism’s abuses – it creates zones of inclusion and exclusion – Only by accepting the mantel of the revolutionary subject and the excluded can we engage in universalized antagonism where we can recapture value to life and stave off human extinction** 
**Žižek****09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana (New Left Review 57, May-June 2009, “How to Begin at the Beginning” http://www.newleftreview.org/II/57/slavoj-zizek-how-to-begin-from-the-beginning)JC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is not enough to remain faithful to the communist hypothesis</span>__:......____and the only way to avoid actually becoming so is to act preventively__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**We must engage the state as planners – Using a universalized particular demand to provide transportation for urban populations acts as a counter-methodology to that of neoliberal planning**
**Grengs ’04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan ( Joe, CITY, VOL. 9, NO. 1, APRIL, “The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA”, http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf//JC)</span>
__Federal policy encourages local transit officials to s......__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">potential of meaningful citizen participation. </span>

**Resisting capitalism’s reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Žižek and Daly, 04 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– *Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana and **Glyn Daly: Having taught at Essex and Manchester Universities, Glyn joined the Politics course team in 1999. Glyn is responsible for the Level 2 core module in International Studies, Global Imaginations: Ideas and Identities. He is also active in the area of Political Theory, and teaches and co-ordinates SOC1001 Introduction to Political Theory, SOC3006 Making of Modern Political Thought, and offers a specialist option on SOC3028 Ideology, Fantasy and Film in the final year. He has published a range of articles on Political Theory, Marxism and Post-Marxism and the Politics of Ideology and Fantasy and is currently writing a book on the work of the Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Zizek for Sage. Glyn has recently completed a training course for supervising PhD students.(“Risking the Impossible”, 2004, http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm)//MP</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek </span><span class="Underline">it is imperative that **we cut through**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this ......</span>__Other to that of a "glitch" in an otherwise sound matrix.__


**The affirmative represents an ethical shift that embraces contingency in the face of certainty – This represents a dramatic shift from existing, unquestioned institutions**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Žižek and Daly 2004</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, Conversations with Zizek, page 18-19)//MP</span>

<span class="Underline">For Zizek, </span>a confrontation with the obscenities .....<span class="Underline">like Zizek's own thought, exhorts us to risk the impossible.</span>


**Thus We demand in the face of neoliberalism that:**

**The United States federal government will increase investment for mass transit in urban areas**

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16pt;">Schopenhauer 1nc</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The constant desire to maintain existence begs the obvious question, “Why?”- the assurance of existence offered by the affirmative results in a world of drones with nothing but suffering to experience.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schopenhauer,</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Late German philosopher, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">1844</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Arthur, The World as Will and Representation Fourth Book, Second Edition, Translated by Richard Burdon Haldane and J. Kemp, http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_World_as_Will_and_Representation/Fourth_Book)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The </span>__****__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">life of the</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">great </span>**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">majority is.....</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Thus between desiring and attaining all human life flows on throughout</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The only thing that makes life not mindlessly boring is the achievement of our goals, but then again, if we do achieve them they become burdens.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schopenhauer in ‘1851</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Arthur, Quals are Life-Affirming, Essays of Schopenhauer, the Emptiness of Existence, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://etext.library.adelaide.edu.au/s/schopenhauer/arthur/essays/chapter6.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The scenes of our life are like pictures in rough mosaic.....</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Even the pomp and splendour of the rich in their stately castles is at bottom nothing but a futile attempt to escape the very essence of existence, //misery//.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">So you decided not to commit suicide? That’s great, more than likely you’re going to die in some more painful manner anyways, and the suffering will begin, unless we escape from this hellish existence we are doomed to endless suffering in the face of single deaths, only by a full blown nuclear exchange will no survivors be left to experience this fate.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dolan in ‘2</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(John, The Case for Nuclear Winter, Iss. 139, April 21st </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.exile.ru/2002-April-21/feature_story.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Suicide is unpatriotic; that's why it offends them. It deprives the vampires of a jugular to sip..........</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> rather than another partial slaughter. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Alternative is to Reject the Affirmative’s desires to save lives and Vote negative on the precautionary principle – it is always safer to presume someone will regret being brought into existence because no one suffers when someone is mistakenly not brought into existence. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Benatar in ‘6</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(David, Associate Professor of Philosophy at University of Cape Town, Better Never to Have Been, pg 153-155) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is not true</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, of course, **__that //everybody// is glad .__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Case__**</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">We’re impact turning their extinction impact. Human extinction is good because it prevents inevitable human domination of other forms of life on earth and throughout the universe. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kochi and Ordan 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Tarik is a lecturer in the School of Law, Queen's University, Belfast, Northern Ireland. Noam is a linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, Israel. 'An argument for the global suicide of humanity', Borderlands, December)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6981/is_3_7/ai_n31524968/?tag=content;col1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">In 2006 on an Internet forum called Yahoo! ...........</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">would be the global suicide of humanity.</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The capacity of nature to be different from us precedes all other sources of value. If humans survive, we will re-engineer everything—atoms, cells, ourselves, and even other planets. All natural Otherness from the molecular to the extra-terrestrial will be systematically eliminated. This is the biggest impact.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Keekok </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lee</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster Univ</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">ersity, **1999** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Natural and the Artefactual</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> p. 2-4]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">To appreciate this dimension one needs to highlight the distinction ........... grounds for assigning their bearers intrinsic value. In this sense, ontology precedes axiology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Destruction of non-living existence throughout the universe must be rejected. Extra-terrestrial nature will still have value even if we’re all dead because it has its own trajectory of existence. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Keekok **Lee**, Visiting Chair in Philosophy at Lancaster University, **1999**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[//The Natural and the Artefactual// p. 226-228]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">We should not delude ourselves that the humanization of nature w........</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">embody</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">i</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">ng this </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">value</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> exist </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">whether human­kind is around or not</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Voting Negative Escapes the Despair of the Humans.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">You are Apes and Dirt; Stars and Rocks; Dinosaurs and Bacteria—Billions of Years of Cosmic Creativity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Value the Wonderful Aliveness of the Universe Beyond Your Capacity to Destroy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Seed, 1995 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">(John, “Beyond Anthropocentrism”, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rainforestinfo.org.au/deep-eco/Anthropo.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">"Anthropocentrism" or "homocentrism" means human chauvinism...........</span> __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">consciousness, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">one that is sustainable and </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">in harmony with life again</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">You are wavering fields of quantum energy---Oxygen interacting with blood cells interacting with plants interacting with bacteria. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nature is not a substance, and neither is your ballot. You are not an isolated ego fiating “privation” and “plenty.” Every breath you take refutes the false binaries of anthropocentrism. Orient yourself to openness, process, and interconnection</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bryan</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Bannon**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Visiting Assistant Professor Philosophy at University Miami,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[//Ethics & the Environment// 14.2]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. In contrast, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Descartes finds</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __two__ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">distinct </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">kinds </span>__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of substance—one rational ........</span>__ __<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif;">we cannot adopt a perspective outside of nature to observe</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">it</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">as a whole, we only have access to passing events, some of which we call places. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Wake Neg__**</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Round 2 Versus Johsn Creek ( Nuclear Imagery Aff)__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__1nc: Schop, Extinction Good, Framework__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__2nr: Framework__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Round 4 versus NIB aff__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__1nc: Schop, Extinction good on case,__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Round 6 verus BatailleCycles__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__Framework, Schop, Extinction good__**</span>