Aff cites: cameronballard@rowlandhall.org
Neg cites: juliagoldman@rowlandhall.org
If you want specific neg cites just email me because I don't have the motivation to put them all up right now but I'll get them to you ASAP

[[toc]]
=1AC Meadows= 
==Plan Text== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in backbone pipeline transportation of captured liquid carbon dioxide in the United States.
== == 
==Warming== 
Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderegg et al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement with the primary conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): … This extensive analysis of the mainstream versus skeptical/contrarian researchers suggests a strong role for considering expert credibi- lity in the relative weight of and attention to these groups of re- searchers in future discussions in media, policy, and public forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Warming causes extinction – we’re at the tipping point </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Archer et al, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;"> – Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September, [[http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]]. </span>
This summary intends – rather than to duplicate the existing assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), rather than the size of the change itself, and the wider perspective of global catastrophic risks in which climate change is only one of the problems.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Climate change is comparatively the only existential threat</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Doebbler 11. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. </span>Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm</span>
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. …They continue in this vein.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Warming turns every impact</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke 8 </span>(Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)
At the same time, however, the implications of both trends for human society and survival raise the stakes; Europe will have the oddity of having to deal with far colder winters, given the collapse of the MOC, which will compromise agricultural productivity.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Climate change leads to drought and flooding</span>
Muawya Ahmed <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hussein 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dhofar University Bureau of Applied Economics & Statistics The Economic, Social and Political Elements of Climate Change</span>
Arguably, one of the most widespread and potentially devastating impacts of climate change in East Africa will be change in the frequency, intensity, and predictability of precipitation… Pangani Basin is one of Tanzania’s most agriculturally productive areas and is an important hydropower production region. Because of this, climate change threatens the productivity and sustainability of this region’s resources, which hosts an estimated 3.7 million people<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Drought results in the death of millions</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aiguo </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dai 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ph.D. Atmospheric Science, Columbia University, New York CityM.S. Atmospheric Science, Inst. for Atmos. Phys., Chinese Academy of Sci., Beijing, China Drought Under Global Warming: A review </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcc.81/pdf</span>
Few extreme events are as economically and ecologically disruptive as drought, which affects millions of people in the world each year…l efforts to mitigate the negative impact of climate change.
Adaptation is only possible for rich countries, assumes linear climate change and ignores biodiversity loss
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hamilton 10</span> – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU
Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics in Australia, 2010, “Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change,” pg 29-30
Underlying the discussion of adaptation is an unspoken belief that one way or…. In the type of scenario I have described, mass extinctions are likely.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coal is inevitable - CCS is the only viable way to solve for its carbon dioxide emissions </span>
Richard K. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
From Climate Culprit to Solution …in the fight against global warming.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CCS allows for coal with zero emissions – government investment is key to commercial adaptation</span>
Richard K. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
EVENTUALLY, as the world's coal plants … a practice that would make the economics of CCS more attractive.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prioritizing carbon infrastructure ends the shift to natural gas</span>
**Frank et al 9** - research associate in the CSIS Energy and National Security Program
Matthew, “Crossing the Natural Gas Bridge,” CSIS, http://csis.org/files/attachments/090624_Crossing_Bridge.pdf
Aggressive action on renewables, efficiency, CCS,• Increase the support for and effectiveness of energy R&D spending.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Natural gas accelerates warming – studies prove</span>
Robert W. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Howarth et al</span> 11/12/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> - Howarth is the David R. Atkinson Professor of Ecology & Environmental Biology at Cornell University, Renee Santoro is a research aide at Cornell University, Anthony Ingraffea is a professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell University (“Methane and the greenhouse-gas footprint of natural<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>gas from shale formations,” [[http://www.sustainablefuture.cornell.edu/news/attachments/Howarth-EtAl-2011.pdf]])
6 Shale gas versus other fossil fuels¶… Considering the 20-year horizona heating and transportation fuel, where there is little evidence that efficiencies are<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>superior to diesel oil.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only the plan is modeled – China, India, Brazil, and other countries won’t cut emissions unless they can avoid economic cost</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Apt et al 7</span> – PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy
Jay, “Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration,” Carnegie Mellon, http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. The sources and sector uses of greenhouse gases in the 2005 U.S. economy are shown in figure 28 below.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Developing countries will “wait and see” until CCS is proven</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global CCS Institute 12</span> (“Funding Carbon Capture and Storage in Developing Countries,” [[http://cdn.globalccsinstitute.com/sites/default/files/publications/37906/fundingccsindevelopingcountriesfinal.pdf]])
Given the significant, but manageable… and facilitating foreign-policy objectives, such as earnings from CCS <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>technology exports” (Meadowcroft and Langhelle 2009).

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Specifically, China is moving towards CCS now</span>
Richard K. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
The case of China, the world's biggest carbon emitter, … for quite some time.

US R&D and demonstration is key to adoption of CCS in India
Mudit <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Narain</span> 6/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span> - B.E., Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Delhi, 2005, dissertation submitted for a Masters of Science in Technology and Policy and Masters of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering at MIT (“Pathways to Adoption of Carbon Capture and Sequestration in India: <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Technologies and Policies,” [[http://sequestration.mit.edu/pdf/MuditNarain_Thesis.pdf]])
Cooperative R&D on Indian coal – A common refrain
should be undertaken to make the sector more ¶ effective and ready to adopt CCS. ¶

== == 
==No War== 
War is no longer possible – every trend points to peace.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tertais, ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruno - a Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research and a TWQ editorial board member, former Director of the Civilian Affairs Committee at Assembly of NATO, Ph.D in political science from Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Summer 2012, The Demise of Ares: The End of War as We Know It?, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/twq12SummerTertrais.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1990, U.S. political scientist John Mearsheimer predicted that we would soon ‘‘miss the Cold War.’’ 1 and reached unprecedented lows after 1990.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We should dismiss threats to survival if they are very unlikely—the alternative is that we do nothing about any existential risk</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">POSNER 2004</span> (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 19)

The reason for the hedge in “essentially” about any of them.



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The focus on short-term impacts is bad—failure to think on a longer time scale invites human extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">VERSCHUUR </span>19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">96</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 216)

There is an even more subtle reason …will be around for a long time, and that this question is worth thinking about.


== == 
==Solvency== 
Carbon capture is tested and feasible
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anthony et. al '10</span> [May 2010, Lauren Anthony, Brendon Baatz, Nicholas Bahnken, McKenzie Beverage, Jie Cui, Rose Galer, Devin Hartmaan, Colin Highlands, Howon Kang, Jacob Keating, Meghan Keefer, Kyungwoo Kim, Ashleigh Klingman, Keum Hoo Lee, Katie Mauldin, Richy Palmer, Laura Paradise, Arif Sayik, Burak Uyan, Kelly Wedell, Hasan Qildirin, Ibrahim Yigit, Yonghua Zou are top scholars from multiple disciplines to conduct innovative, timely and relevant research in the broad area of energy, focusing specifically on: • Advanced fossil fuels and nuclear power; • Alternative or renewable energy resources; • Local and regional carbon cycle dynamics; • Environmental and economic consequences of energy production and distribution assembled under the Center for Research in Energy and the Environment of Indiana University, "Carbon Capture and Storage", [[http://www.indiana.edu/~cree/pdf/2010%20V600%20Capstone%20Report%20on%20Carbon%20Capture%20and%20Storage.pdf]]]

Removing CO2 from a … <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and volatile mercury.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

CCS storage is technologically available and empirically proven
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dooley and Davidson 10</span> – leader of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's and the Global Energy Technology Strategy Project's research related to carbon dioxide capture and storage and senior member of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's Integrated Assessment modeling team; Senior Research Scientist. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, Washington (JJ and CL, “A Brief Technical Critique of Ehlig-Economides and Economides 2010: ‘Sequestering Carbon Dioxide in a Closed Underground Volume’” US Department of Energy April 2010 http://www.pnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-19249.pdf) MLR
The technical feasibility …the potential benefits and challenges ¶ associated with CCS.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pipelines are the missing link – a national network is needed</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IRGC 8</span>
International Risk Governance Council, “Regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.irgc.org/IMG/pdf/Policy_Brief_CCS.pdf
Large-scale CCS deployment …organisational structure of the CCS industry.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The federal government is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">-eminent domain, single regulator, encourages broader CCS investment and //__guarantees__// uniformity</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Horne 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – JD @ U of Utah</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis</span>
Siting regulations affect …confusion and inefficiency would result. In such circumstances, a uniform set of requirements for access will be far more workable.

=1AC Round 6 Golden Desert= 
==Warming== 
Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and …regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Warming causes extinction – we’re at the tipping point
Archer et al, ‘8 – Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September, [[http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]].
This summary intends –…in which climate change is only one of the problems.

Climate change is comparatively the only existential threat
Doebbler 11. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm
Climate change is …countries. They continue in this vein.


Warming turns every impact
Burke 8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)
At the same time, however… compromise agricultural productivity.

Climate change is linear and not inevitable
Pew Center 11
(The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change, "Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,")
CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE: …and rate of climate change.”¶ 17


Coal is inevitable - CCS is the only viable way to solve for its carbon dioxide emissions
Richard K. Morse 2012 – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader (“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
From Climate Culprit to Solution
COAL, …fight against global warming.

CCS allows for coal with zero emissions – government investment is key to commercial adaptation
Richard K. Morse 2012 – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader (“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
EVENTUALLY, as the world's …the economics of CCS more attractive.


Only the plan is modeled – China, India, Brazil, and other countries won’t cut emissions unless they can avoid economic cost
Apt et al 7 – PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy
Jay, “Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration,” Carnegie Mellon, http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC… U.S. economy are shown in figure 28 below.


Developing countries will “wait and see” until CCS is proven
Global CCS Institute 12 (“Funding Carbon Capture and Storage in Developing Countries,” [[http://cdn.globalccsinstitute.com/sites/default/files/publications/37906/fundingccsindevelopingcountriesfinal.pdf]])
Given the significant, but manageable, …¶ technology exports” (Meadowcroft and Langhelle 2009).

Specifically, China is moving towards CCS now
Richard K. Morse 2012 – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader (“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)
The case of China, the world's …Asian economies for quite some time.

US R&D and demonstration is key to adoption of CCS in India
Mudit Narain 6/2007 - B.E., Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Delhi, 2005, dissertation submitted for a Masters of Science in Technology and Policy and Masters of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering at MIT (“Pathways to Adoption of Carbon Capture and Sequestration in India: ¶ Technologies and Policies,” [[http://sequestration.mit.edu/pdf/MuditNarain_Thesis.pdf]])
Cooperative R&D on Indian coal…effective and ready to adopt CCS. ¶

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">SCS</span>
South China Sea
Glaser, 12— a senior fellow with the Freeman Chair in China Studies and a senior associate with the Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies (Bonnie, Armed Clash in the South China Sea, April 2012, http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883)
The risk of conflict in the South China …for now tensions appear to be defused.

And, conflict escalates – the South China Sea is Asia’s most dangerous flashpoint
Adams 10 (Jonathan, "South China Sea: The coming war?" http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/china/100625/south-china-sea-paracel-spratly-islands-military)
TAIPEI, Taiwan —…Southeast Asian Studies' Richardson.

US China war escalates to extinction
Cheong 2k (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates … destruction of civilization.

We solve - tech transfer involves China in international energy frameworks that promote cooperation
Logan et al. 07 – Senior associate @ World Resources Institute [Logan, Joanna Lewis (Senior international fellow at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change), and Michael B. Cummings (JD candidate @ Georgetown University and former Business/Solutions Fellow @ Pew Center on Global Climate Change), “For China, the shift to climate-friendly energy depends on international collaboration,” Boston Review, January/February 2007, pg. http://bostonreview.net/BR32.1/loganlewiscummings.php]
All these factors combined call into …to wait for a more comprehensive climate policy.

The plan is a key confidence building measure
Zha and Hu 07 – Professor of International Studies @ Renmin University and Professor of Politics @ University of Hong Kong [Zha Daojiong and Hu Weixing, “Promoting Energy Partnership in Beijing and Washington,” Washington Quarterly • 30:4 Autumn 2007, pp.105–115
Policy dialogues are certainly useful. … help improve the status quo.

==Plan== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its fiscal investment in pipeline transportation infrastructure for captured supercritical carbon dioxide in the United States.
==Solvency== 
Carbon capture is tested and feasible
Anthony et. al '10 [May 2010, Lauren Anthony, Brendon Baatz, Nicholas Bahnken, McKenzie Beverage, Jie Cui, Rose Galer, Devin Hartmaan, Colin Highlands, Howon Kang, Jacob Keating, Meghan Keefer, Kyungwoo Kim, Ashleigh Klingman, Keum Hoo Lee, Katie Mauldin, Richy Palmer, Laura Paradise, Arif Sayik, Burak Uyan, Kelly Wedell, Hasan Qildirin, Ibrahim Yigit, Yonghua Zou are top scholars from multiple disciplines to conduct innovative, timely and relevant research in the broad area of energy, focusing specifically on: • Advanced fossil fuels and nuclear power; • Alternative or renewable energy resources; • Local and regional carbon cycle dynamics; • Environmental and economic consequences of energy production and distribution assembled under the Center for Research in Energy and the Environment of Indiana University, "Carbon Capture and Storage", [[http://www.indiana.edu/~cree/pdf/2010%20V600%20Capstone%20Report%20on%20Carbon%20Capture%20and%20Storage.pdf]]]
Removing CO2 from a pre-combustion … air pollutants and volatile mercury.¶

CCS storage is technologically available and empirically proven
Dooley and Davidson 10 – leader of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's and the Global Energy Technology Strategy Project's research related to carbon dioxide capture and storage and senior member of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's Integrated Assessment modeling team; Senior Research Scientist. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, Washington (JJ and CL, “A Brief Technical Critique of Ehlig-Economides and Economides 2010: ‘Sequestering Carbon Dioxide in a Closed Underground Volume’” US Department of Energy April 2010 http://www.pnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-19249.pdf) MLR
The technical feasibility of … ¶ associated with CCS.

=1AC Berkeley= 
==Homelessness== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation One: This is a public space!</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We begin with the descriptions by Samira Kawash, from her article “The Homeless Body”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Samira Kawash, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s late, and I`m hurrying home, ...</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">this body exerts so powerful an effect on the other riders</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That question posed by the homeless body is the same question inherent in this year’s topic. Traditional infrastructure investment operates within the project of urban renewal that attempts to purify and improve our society’s operations, movement, and space. The problem is that these policies attack the economically and socially marginalized through gentrification and privatization of that space. Status quo infrastructure improvements seek to eliminate the homeless because they are seen as a problem </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TO</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the economy instead of product </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">OF</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> it.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">dislocations and disruptions caused by programs of ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to the phantomal public is</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> what I will call in this essay </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the homeless body</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(slow) The exclusion of the homeless body and the securitization of public space make violence inevitable. Policies become tools to exclude, humiliate, and eliminate homeless people.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Homelessness and Placelessness Since ... many choose to avoid them altogether. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This fuels a type of management and exclusion that creates an endless apocalypse for countless populations not included within society.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 2000</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Peter, Prof. of English at Bowdoin College, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Apocalypse From Now On</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, pg. 11)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps. But to claim that American ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">seems </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>


===[[#Homelessness Affirmative--Observation Two: Not being at home in one’s home…]]Observation Two: Not being at home in one’s home…=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Modern politics is obsessed with the “homecoming,” of finally reaching the utopian future where growth, security, and freedom all exist in perfect harmony. More speed, more progress, more expansion – Infrastructure is our home. But as the state tries to build a better home, they displace those who won’t live there.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These dreams of a perfect and comfortable home stigmatize the homeless and destroy alternative dwelling options – this creates barelife and prevents the possibility of ethical living.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Feldman, ‘6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Leonard C, Assistant Prof of Polisci @ the U of Oregon, Citizens Without Shelter: Homelessness, Democracy, and Political Exclusion, p. 22-24)-mikee</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">At this point, however, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a critic might argue that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">These limits, though, are more like frontiers. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Meaning, ethical living, and genuine hospitality are impossible within the status quo’s conception of a home.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Theodor </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Adorno</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> 19</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">51</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – renowned German philosopher and Holocaust survivor (“Minima Moralia: Reflections on a Damaged Life,” Verso)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Refuge for the Homeless - The predicament of private life today is shown by its arena. </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">...</span>// //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wrong life cannot be lived rightly</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must give up on the home – The comforts there are simply neurotic and cause totalitarian living. Only a gesture that embraces homelessness within one’s home can preserve the possibility of morality.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tyson </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and Daniel </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Cho </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">06</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“HOME IS WHERE THE NEUROSIS IS: A TOPOGRAPHY OF THE SPATIAL UNCONSCIOUS,” University of Minnesota Press, Project Muse)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In sum, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the traditional house is haunted</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> by ghosts</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">; ... the confines of the traditional home and its attending immanent paradox.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Homelessness Affirmative--Observation Three – Our Response]]Observation Three – Our Response</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation policies, imaginations of this topic, intrinsically produce modes of homeless dwelling. Transportation policy, which, for the “homed” is a policy of convenience, speed, efficiency and progress, is simultaneously a “dwelling policy” for the homeless.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some make a comfortable home for themselves in both mind and body by purifying their environment, eliminating unwanted thoughts from creeping in, building four walls and a sturdy roof, and by organizing their lives such that interaction with “undesirables” is kept to a minimum. The transportation system is one of the few ways that this comfortable sense of home is disrupted by figures of the homeless who make transportation infrastructure their place of dwelling. Rather than confront this reality, those desiring home, avert their eyes, wait for the light to turn green, and drive on.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The topic itself is a kind of conceptual transportation infrastructure. The topic is not this or that thing, rather it is a crossing place, a “crossroads,” for multiple imaginations and ways to affirm/negate. When we say the topic is only one thing we close ourselves off to points of difference and try to construct the topic as a “home.” But the topic is not a home; it is a site for multiple forms of dwelling. Homelessness is the heart of this topic both in form and content. Refusal to confront this performs the invisibility that renders the homeless figure as an absolute other of our society. Thus we affirm the topic as a site of multiple forms of dwelling and as an opportunity to come to terms with homelessness. Thus, Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Out method and advocacy is based in nomadism and is the only approach that solves – other strategies reach a “home” or a redemptive endpoint, while ours continually acts to prevent injustice</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ilan </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Gur-Ze’ev</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">05</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – professor at the University of Haifa ADORNO AND HORKHEIMER: DIASPORIC PHILOSOPHY, NEGATIVE THEOLOGY, AND COUNTER-EDUCATION)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">This is where the Diasporic dimension is so central to the mature thinking of Adorno and Horkheimer...of a present-day Diasporic counter-education.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, our act of dwelling affirms the public transportation infrastructure as an alternative site of home dwelling. The affirmation of the bus as home is a form of pluralization that disrupts the political order of the status quo. Voting affirmatives establish an ethic of responsiveness that respects the homeless.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Feldman, ‘6</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Leonard C, Assistant Prof of Polisci @ the U of Oregon, Citizens Without Shelter: Homelessness, Democracy, and Political Exclusion, p. 145-148)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">An ethic of dwelling does not involve stripping away superficial differences to find the essential human beneath... premised on the isolation and exclusion of bare life.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We must expose the violence inflicted upon the homeless body in order to prevent exclusion by the public body</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Kawash, ’98</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Samira, teaches in the Department of English at Rutgers University.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">She is the author of Dislocating the Color Line. Her current research explores place and body in relation to the theoretical and cultural significance of homelessness “The Homeless Body,” Public Culture 10(2): 319-339.)-mikee</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">If the circuit of body, meaning and place closes to enforce the ideological and material exclusion of the homeless. ..</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">rather than the visibility of the homeless as such, that holds some promise for interrupting the exclusionary </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px;">imagination</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> of the public.</span>

=Neg= 
==Strats== 
===Golden Desert=== 
Round 1 V. Groves NP (D&G)
1NC: Framework, Cap, Immigration politics, Case
Block: Framework, Cap, Case
2NR: Framework, Case

Round 4 V. CK McClatchy KH (Icebreakers)
1NC: T - Vehicles/<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">maintenance, Hillman, China Fund CP, Immigration politics, Case</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Block: T (Both), Case, CP, Politics</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2NR: T (Both)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Round 5 V. GBS VK (Georeferencing)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">1NC: Hillman, Immigration politics, China Fund CP, Terror adv CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Block: Hillman, Adv CP, Case, politics</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Adv CP, politics</span>
[[toc]]