[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Whiteness </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">We beg the question of what the affirmative chose to analyze. The choice of what structures to criticize is a political act based in our specific social locations. It makes counter-factual debate blind to the way some people have no choice in the world they’re given. Instead, we should consider the way White Supremacy shaped the world we know </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mills 97 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, Prof of Philosophy @ Northwestern, “The Racial Contract” pg … )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet</span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the United States itself</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">., </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">.... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Racial Contract itself.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">White supremacy makes wars, violence, and genocides inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Daniels 9 </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">(Lenore Jean, PhD, has been a writer, for over thirty years of commentary, resistance criticism and cultural theory, and short stories with a Marxist sensibility to the impact of cultural narrative violence and its antithesis, resistance narratives dern American Literatures, with a specialty in Cultural Theory (race, gender, class narratives) from Loyola University, Chicago, U.S. Corporate-Militarist Government Motto: Oppress the Dialogue on White Supremacy - Oppress the Rage of Oppressed People Represent Our Resistance, April 2, 2009, http://www.phillyimc.org/en/us-corporate-militarist-government-motto) </span>//
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">King called for Black Americans .....</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> military industrial complex policies.</span>//


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">We need to question our own relations to white supremacy in this debate space. An attention to the performative and calling out whiteness for its operation as the unmarked center of knowledge production is essential to producing non-oppressive scholarship</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Warren and Fassett, 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[The Johns Hopkins University Press. All rights reserved</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Theatre Topics</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> 14.2 (2004) 411-430</span>[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|//John T. Warren//]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> is an assistant professor in the School of Communication Studies at Bowling Green State University, where he teaches courses in performance, culture, identity, and power. </span>[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|//Deanna L. Fassett//]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication Studies at San José State University, where she teaches courses in instructional communication and critical, feminist, and performative pedagogies.]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Performative pedagogy</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">, as a ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> **__subverting the invisibility of whiteness.__** </span>


=Round 2= 

No new aff arguments 

Gendered language K 

=Round 3= 

No new aff arguments 

Gendered language K 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]