[[toc]]
Aff cites: rachelng412@gmail.com
Neg cites: cailin.m.hong@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==1AC St. Francis== 
=== === 
===**1AC Status Quo**=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">THE US federal government will not invest any money for High-Speed rail in the 2013 budget despite Administration requests</span>
Joel <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox</span>, Editor of Fox & Hounds and President of the Small Business Action Committee, “You Can’t Build High Speed Rail With No Money”, Fox and Hounds, April 18, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012.</span>http://www.foxandhoundsdaily.com/2012/04/you-cant-build-high-speed-rail-with-no-money/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Legislative …</span> __FY 2013 federal budget____.”__

===Plan Text=== 
Text: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in an express-train infrastructure system by initiating a public-private partnership program.



===1AC Economy=== 
CONTENTION 2 IS THE ECONOMY
__THE A SUBPOINT IS THE ECONOMY IS ON THE BRINK OF COLLAPSE__
First, the U.S. faces continued high unemployment, below average growth and the risk of a double-dip recession.

SIVY, AUGUST 28TH, 2012,Time, August 28th 2012( Michael Sivy, [[http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/]])
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In addition to a host of warnings… another economic contraction.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">THE B SUBPOINT IS ECONOMIC COLLAPSE IS CATASTROPHIC</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">TWO SCENARIOS:</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST:</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ECONOMIC DECLINE CAUSES WAR, BEST STUDIES PROVE IT’S A BLOODY TRANSITION AND THERE ARE MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR ARMED CONFLICT</span>__
Jedediah <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal</span>, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2010</span>. p. 213-215
__Less intuitive is how …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deserves more attention.</span>


__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, alternatives to growth __kill hundreds of millions__ and cause __global conflict__—we can’t “//__turn off__//” the economy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Barnhizer 6</span> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” //Georgetown International Environmental Law Review// (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
__The scale of social needs…consequences of our behavior__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND SECOND : COMPETITIVENESS-</span>__

Suburbanization makes US economic growth unsustainable – the US needs a new spatial shift towards the development of megaregions
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”, http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]
That brings me …<span class="TitleChar">spurring further demand</span>.

__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, this poses the __greatest threat__ to U.S. competitiveness—failure to jumpstart America’s knowledge economy ensures __permanent decline__. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Florida 5</span> — Richard Florida, Senior Editor at //The Atlantic//, Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute and Professor of Business and Creativity at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, previously held professorships at George Mason University and Carnegie Mellon University and taught as a visiting professor at Harvard and MIT, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, 2005 (“The Greatest Competitive Threat of Our Time,” //The Globalist//, September 8th, Available Online at http://www.theglobalist.com/printStoryId.aspx?StoryId=4719, Accessed 06-10-2012)
__The current competitive … confronting us today__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AND, U.S. Failure on the competitiveness question results in retrenchment and __Great Power Conflict__—economic growth is vital to prevent the collapse of U.S. hegemony.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 11</span> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 (“The Economy and National Security,” //National Review//, February 8th, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__economic and fiscal …____a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collapse causes lash-out. The U.S. will go down fighting─Crossover Theory Proves</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Goldstein ‘7</span> (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Two closely related, … possible crossover.19</span>

THE C SUBPOINT IS WE SOLVE

First, Megaregions – it’s a __shovel-ready__ project that accelerates the development of mega-regions and results in massive job growth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’10</span> [7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery”, http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]

//Infrastructure is key …// like something of a bargain.


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Status quo economic fixes fail and make collapse inevitable – only the development of new mega-regions can create growth, but infrastructure is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Florida, ’11</span> [7/5/11, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, “How the Great Reset Has Already Changed America”, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/07/how-the-great-reset-has-already-changed-america/241200/]

Gradually, <span class="TitleChar">our great …</span> has already passed.


Second, Competitiveness ---- US is lagging in infrastructure development – high speed rail is key to bring back the US lead
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Messina, ‘12</span> [February 2012, Fred Messina is a Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure @ Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology and strategy consultant company, “Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel”, http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF]
Airport-to-airport high-speed rail …//entire transportation system.//

Third, stimulus—high speed rail has a multiplier effect on the economy—solves short and long term growth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Biden 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Co-chairman Rosemont Seneca Partners LLC and Adviser to HNTB Corporation, member of the bar in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He also was on Amtrak’s board of directors, serving as vice chairman from 2007–09. [Hunter Biden, summer 2010, “The Great Multiplier,” InTransit, Pg. 3-4]</span>

The U.S. national … keys to realizing that goal.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stimulus is best for recovery—principles of aggregate demand</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mankiw and Weinzierl, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - *professor of economics at Harvard AND** professor of business administration at Harvard (N. Gregory and Matthew C., </span>__An Exploration of Optimal Stabilization Policy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Brookings Institution, Spring 2011, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/Programs/ES/BPEA/2011_spring_bpea_papers/2011a_bpea_mankiw.pdf]])//HK</span>

What is the optimal <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… goods being purchased is low.</span>


Infrastructure spending can solves the economy with a multiplier effect of 2.8 – significantly larger than any other type of fiscal spending
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Xue</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Han ’12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, Feb 2012, [[http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Besides its improving effects … on infrastructure projects.</span>

===1AC Warming=== 

Contention 3 IS WARMING
A Subpoint

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warming is real and anthropogenic</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Braganza </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">6/14</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">/11 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In public discussions …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> warming is irrefutable</span>__



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Current policy allows for 866 ppm of CO2 by 2100- causes up to 7 degree warming- only acting now can solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Romm 9 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Joe Romm, Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 “Best Blogs of 2010,” “M.I.T. doubles its 2095 warming projection to 10°F — with 866 ppm and Arctic warming of 20°F, May 20, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2009/05/20/204131/mit-doubles-global-warming-projections-2/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the MIT study</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">we previously thought.” </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ocean acidification causes mass extinctions</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ward 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, PhD, professor of Biology and Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington, paleontologist and NASA astrobiologist, Fellow at the California Academy of Sciences, The Flooded Earth: Our Future in a World Without Ice Caps, June 29, 2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the rest of … their ears and listen.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tipping points prevent adaptation – significant emission cuts are key</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hansen 8 – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fast feedbacks</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">—changes …will be wildlife.</span>

C SUBPOINT-WE SOLVE
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation emissions are the primary contributors to global warming—only HSR solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Christensen, 1/3/2012 (Angela, The Need for Speed: How High Speed Rail Challenges the ‘Green’ Car, p. [[http://begreen.botw.org/2012/01/high-speed-rail-challenges-green-car/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In today’s busy … sooner rather than later</span>



High Speed Rail trades off with less environmentally friendly transportation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ROGERS 11 </span>J.D., University of Illinois College of Law, 2011; B.A., Economics, University of Utah
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Joshua Rogers, NOTE: THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY: HOW STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION MAY HAVE DERAILED AN AMERICAN HIGH SPEED RAIL SYSTEM, University of Illinois Journal of Law, Technology & Policy, Spring, 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American transportation will …</span><span class="TitleChar"> high speed rail system</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">That’s 29 million and 500,000 less automobile trips and flights</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CCAP 6 </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">C</span>__enter for __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">C</span>__lean __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A</span>__ir __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">P</span>__olicy/__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">C</span>__enter for __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">N</span>__eighborhood __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">T</span>__echnology, January 2006 (High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S., p. 1)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">High speed rail</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … upfront capital costs. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan also builds support for international climate agreements </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burwell 10</span> (David, Director of the Energy and Climate Program @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, " Transportation—The Leading Cause of Global Warming," http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)
__Road transportation is …global climate agreement.”__


===1AC Solvency Contention=== 
__Contention 4 is Solvency__
High demand for HSR guarantees high riderships—80% of Americans want HSR
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shanan 2010</span>, (Zachary Shanan, Environmental Analyst, “83% of Americans Think More Money Should Go to High Speed Rail”. 3/28/10 AD. 7/12/12. http://cleantechnica.com/2010/02/28/88-of-americans-like-high-speed-rail/|Ashwin)

Surprisingly, after <span class="TitleChar">…</span> hopefully we will see it happen.¶

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Both Public and Private capital is needed for high speed rail – P3’s establish the confidence to take the leap</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PIRG 11(U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Tony Dutzik and Jordan Schneider and Phineas Baxandall, High-Speed Rail:</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Public, Private or Both?, [[http://cdn.publicinterestnetwork.org/assets/85a40b6572e20834e07b0da3e66e98bf/HSR-PPP-USPIRG-July-19-2011.pdf]])</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Risk Sharing</span> __One …highspeed rail networks.__

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">States could never fund the plan absent large aid from Washington – Investor Confidence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 11 (Yonah, Founder, Writer at The Transport Politic, With Little Hope for Near-Term Federal Support, California High-Speed Rail Struggles, </span>[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/10/20/with-little-hope-for-near-term-federal-support-california-high-speed-rail-struggles/]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite an excellent proposal …</span> __a whole from a long-term perspective.__

Gas prices, urbanization, and unfilled niche means HSR ridership will be high
Grisby and Guzzetti 12 - Darnell Grisby is the Director of Policy Development and Research at American Public Transportation Association, Art Guzzetti is the Vice President - Policy at American Public Transportation Association (American Public Transportation Association, “An Inventory of the Criticisms of High-Speed Rail”, January 2012, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/HSR-Defense.pdf)

While it is true … will increase<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Extinction comes first
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bok 88</span> (Sissela, Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis, Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory, Rosenthal and Shehadi, Ed.)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The same argument can … simplicity of Kant’s moral theory. </span>


Debates about __transportation policy__ are __important__ and __valuable__—our evidence contextualizes this as __the best curriculum__ for __high school students__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marshall 98</span> — Margaret Marshall, Research Associate at the Center for Urban Transportation Research at the College of Engineering at the University of South Florida, 1998 (“High school transportation curriculum being developed,” //CUTRlines//—The Newsletter of the Center for Urban Transportation Research, Winter, Available Online at http://cutr.usf.edu/pubs/news_let/articles/winterC98/news933.htm, Accessed 07-30-2012)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a state that has … high school students.</span>


=Negative= 
==T== 

===T-In=== 
A. Interpretation: “In” means __inclusion within__ --- “investment” must occur __within__ the United States
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Random House 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Unabridged Dictionary, “in”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t)</span>
in<span style="font-size: 8pt;">   [in] Show IPA preposition, adverb, adjective, noun, verb, inned, in·ning. preposition 1. </span>(used to indicate //inclusion within// space, a place, or limits): walking in the park. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. (used to indicate inclusion within something abstract or immaterial): in politics; in the autumn. 3. (used to indicate inclusion within or occurrence during a period or limit of time): in ancient times; a task done in ten minutes. 4. (used to indicate limitation or qualification, as of situation, condition, relation, manner, action, etc.): to speak in a whisper; to be similar in appearance. 5. (used to indicate means): sketched in ink; spoken in French.</span>


===T-Infrastructure=== 

1: Interpretation: Infrastructure is transportation networks – it’s distinct from vehicles and operations

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CSFT 6</span> (“Aboard Transportation”, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)

Transportation Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and goods from one destination to

AND

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,</span> ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.

2: Violation: ITS is the management of transportation system

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of Transportation 12 </span>Regional ITS Architecture Guidance Document 1/31/12 http://www.ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/regitsarchguide/1intro.htm

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Intelligent Transportation Systems</span> have been <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">defined as:</span> "<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the application</span> of advanced sensor,

AND

development processes that exist in each state and metropolitan region of the country.



===T-Subs=== 

A substantial investment is over 20%

**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, [[http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)//]]



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>__C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount which--__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">`(i) was added to the capital account for an existing facility during the 3-year period ending on the last day of any taxable year with respect to which such facility is a tax holiday plant, and</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">`(ii) </span>__caused the sum of all amounts added to such account during such period to exceed 20 percent of the total value of such facility__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (determined in the manner provided in subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>



Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion

**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)//EM

__This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of__

__AND__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

==CPs== 
===States CP=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should [the plan]</span>

States implement and innovate best
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards 11</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.)</span>
In a recent television ad for her network, MSNBC host Rachel Maddow stands below
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public. They're ready.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The counterplan is key to spur broader federalism</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McGuigan 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Editor of the Free Congress Family, Law & Democracy Report and the author of The Politics of Direct Democracy (Patrick B., 07/29, “CapitolBeakOK: Transportation Federalism -- and Flexibility -- Proposed in New Bill from Coburn, Lankford,” http://lankford.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=756&Itemid=100023)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his statement, sent to CapitolBeatOK, Sen. Coburn said, “Washington’s </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the construction of highways, bridges and roads</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Utah and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">across the nation</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The impact is escalating warfare</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calabresi 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Assistant Professor, Northwestern University School of Law (Steven G., December, “Reflections on United States v. Lopez: ‘A GOVERNMENT OF LIMITED AND ENUMERATED POWERS’: IN DEFENSE OF UNITED STATES v. LOPEZ,” Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Small </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">state federalism is a big part of what keeps</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">peace in countries like </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">absorb more completely the attention of the U.S. Supreme Court.</span>


===XO CP=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to [insert plan].</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Obama has broad executive discretion over transportation – he can do anything</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Joey </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">LeMay</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, 3/21/</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, Mint Press, "Obama 'new' executive order causes stir, but is now unprecedented," [[http://www.mintpress.net/obamas-new-executive-order-causes-stir-but-is-not-unprecedented/]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Obama signed an executive order</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> last Friday </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">that reauthorizes</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, but also amends</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">control and complete direction of “civil transportation,” “regardless of ownership.”</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">XO’s on transportation don’t have to go through Congress – means the CP avoids politics</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Scott </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Thomasson</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, (President of NewBuild Strategies LLC), 4/9/</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, The Hill, "Finding infrastructure solutions, big and small," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/220605-finding-infrastructure-solutions-big-and-small,</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The stalled highway bill is further proof that “go big” approaches</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to solving </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, without needing to wait for congressional approval</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> or new steering committee plans.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">K</span>== 

===Biopower K=== 

The affirmative’s search for stability justifies the modern bio-political state—entire populations are obliterated for the sake of securing the “greater good”

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoffman 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Kasper, master dissertation in international development studies at Rocksilde University, “Militarised Bodies and Spirits of Resistance,” http://rudar.ruc.dk/bitstream/1800/2766/4/z2.pdf, CH)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In modern forms of government, concepts of the norm and normal have played a </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">exceptionally cruel regimes, but a fundamental feature of modern processes of government. </span>



Our alternative is to assume the role of specific intellectuals within the round by rejecting the notion of disciplinary power. Constant local questioning is key to a creating a genealogy that challenges traditional knowledge-power and enables transformation

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Owen 94 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(David, Professor of Social and Political Philosophy @ University of Southampton, “Morality and Modernity”, pp 208-210, CH) </span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The ‘universal’ intellectual</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, on Foucault’s account, is that figure who </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">maintains a </span>__

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">we recognize our autonomy in the contestation of determinations of who we are. </span>

===Security K=== 

[case specific link]

Securitization erodes the delineation between individual and nation, militarizing all through war—total annihilation becomes appropriate in the name of "state~’s security"
Campbell 98
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Campbell, professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle, Writing Security, 1998, pg. 199-201) </span>
As invitation to this line of thought can be found in the later work of
AND
death is the underside of the power to guarantee an individual~’s continued existence."






The alternative is to reject the Affirmative~’s security discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security in all forms through the means of debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and dependency on the State
Neocleous 8
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University, "Critique of Security", McGill-Queen~’s University, pp. 184-186)</span>
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is
AND
; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.143
==DA== 
===Politics=== 
Fiscal cliff compromise likely with Obama’s push—Republicans are just posturing
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CNBC 11/30</span> (“What a 'Fiscal Cliff' Compromise Could Look Like”, [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/50027359]], accessed 11/30/12, CH)

President <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama presented his opening offer for fiscal cliff negotiations </span>on Thursday. The offer
AND
sign off on something. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We're not going to go off the cliff."</span>

Transportation infrastructure costs political capital
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ong, July 18th</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Carah, Miller Center: University of Virginia, 2012, “Solving the Rancor of Executive Privilege Disputes” http://millercenter.org/ridingthetiger/category/narrative-2012]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although President Eisenhower signed the 1954 Federal Aid Highway Act</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the days following Nixon’s </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on whether or how to fund those investments given the current budget situation. </span>
Obama needs capital to convince republicans
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huffington Post 11/29/2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-reich|Robert Reich]], Chancellor's Professor of Public Policy, University of California at Berkeley; Author, 'Beyond Outrage', http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-reich/bungeejumping-over-the-fi_b_2212105.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama's only real bargaining leverage comes from the fact that when the Bush tax cuts </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">class over the edge in pursuit of even more wealth for their patrons.</span>

Sequestration collapses causes massive military cuts—undermines US credibility and collapses hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Singer 9/24</span> (Peter, director of the[[@http://www.brookings.edu/about/projects/21defense| 21st Century Defense Initiative]] at Brookings. Check [[@http://www.brookings.edu/research/articles/2012/09/23-sequestration-defense-singer|here]] for the full list of source material for this series of articles.“Sequestration and What it Would Do the US Power”, [[http://nation.time.com/2012/09/24/sequestration-and-what-it-would-do-to-u-s-military-power/m%20accessed11/18/12|http://nation.time.com/2012/09/24/sequestration-and-what-it-would-do-to-u-s-military-power/m accessed11/18/12]], CH)

In recent months, concerns over sequestration and its impact on the U.S
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by the same percentage</span>, like a butcher with a piece of meat.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Loss of hegemony causes global instability</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 12</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Robert, Senior Fellow at Brookings, 3/14/12 “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://us.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?hpt=hp_c1]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, accessed 11/18/12, CH)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We take a lot for granted about </span>the way the world looks today -- the
AND
what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.

==Strats== 
===Long Beach=== 

Round 2 v. Downtown Magnet (Electric Vehicles)
States
Elections
Biopower
Case (De-dev)
2NR: States+elections

Round 4 v. Juan Diego MF (DAR)
States
Elections
Biopower
Case (Heg turns)
2NR:States+elections+case


Round 5 v. Notre Dame BD (Mayport)
States
Advantage CP
Elections
Spending
T-Military
Case (Heg turns)
2NR: States+federalism+elections

===La Costa=== 

Round 1 v. Kudos Academy KW (Disabilities)
States
Politics
FW
Biopower
Case
2NR: case+states+federalism+politics

Round 3 v. Damien MV (Icebreakers)
Security
Politics
States
XO
ASPEC
T-In
T-Subs
Case
2NR: XO+politics

Round 5 v. Meadows SB (Dams)
Politics
XO
Privatization (Text: The United States federal government should sell the lower Snake River dams to the highest bidder)
T-Subs
T-TI
ASPEC
Case
2NR: Privatization+politics+case

Octos v. San Dieguito SZ (ITS)
States
T-Maintenance
T-Subs
Politics
Case
2NR: States+politics