[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 


===Checks AC=== 

Definitions

Extend is about rights citizens currently have (Merriam Webster definition)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Definition of accused m</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">eans trial through conviction:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The generic name </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">whichever occurs first.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current system: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Congressional Research Service 2012 [Jennifer K. Elsea Legislative Attorney “Comparison of Rights in Military Commission Trials and Trials in Federal Criminal Court” The Congressional Research Service. May 9, 2012]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. law provides for the</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> trial of suspected terrorists</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, including those </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">procured by plea agreement. A few commission rulings have been appealed. 50</span>

Advocacy

I advocate that non-citizens accused of terrorism be tried, and granted the rights afforded to defendants in Article III federal courts.


Framework

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">V: J</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Political philosophy, must be practical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Public reason” provides the only reasonable basis for justification.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">John Rawls [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The idea of public reason, as I understand it,' belongs to a</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">India-finding a suitable idea of public reason is a concern that faces</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Basic standards are necessary to ensure citizens accept the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 2 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I now turn to a discussion of what I have labeled the third, fourth</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">be reasonable, political conceptions must justify only constitutions that satisfy this principle.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The rule of law is necessary to maintain the states role as the legitimate arbiter of the rules.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 3 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I now wish to consider rights of the person as these are protected by the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the basic structure, but ones that are not by any means negligible.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">S: Maintaining rule of law</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1) Prerequisite – can’t enforce ethics without rule of law</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2) Without rule of law, pluralism is denied – arbitrary imposition of values</span>


Module: Post Hoc Tribunals

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No “special tribunal” designed post hoc can be considered consistent.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Jordan Paust 2012 [Mike & Teresa Baker Law Center Professor, University of Houston “Still Unlawful: The Obama Military Commissions, Supreme Court Holdings, and Deviant Dicta in the D.C. Circuit” Cornell International Law Journal. VOL. 45. 2012.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In its landmark opinion in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld,2 the U.S AND were enacted years after detainees at Guantanamo entered U.S. custody.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Post hoc procedures violate the rule of law. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 4 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The precept that there is no offense without a law (Nullum crimen sinelege),</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">not serve to</span> <span class="styleboldunderline">organize</span> social behavior by providing a basis for <span class="styleboldunderline">legitimate expectations.</span>



Module: Command Influence

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Military commissions are susceptible to unlawful command influence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Glenn Sulmasy 09 [National Security and Human Rights Fellow, Harvard University, and Professor of Law, Commander and Judge Advocate, U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The National Security Court System: A Natural Evolution of Justice in an Age of Terror. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2009]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Along that same line of reasoning, it is critical that the Department of Defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">military environment, I would suggest that is more than simply the norm.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The commissions are designed so that the military serves as prosecutor, judge, and jury.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Maogoto and Sheehy 07 [Jackson Maogoto, Professor of Law at The University of Manchester; Benedict Sheehy, Senior Lecturer in Business and Law at RMIT University. “Torturing the Rule of Law: USA and the Post 9-11 Legal World” Journal of Civil Rights and Economic Development. Volume 21, Issue 3 Volume 21, Spring/Summer 2007.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is of note that America's move to create</span> <span class="styleboldunderline">a different judicial¶ process to</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">space within</span> <span class="styleboldunderline">w</span>hich <span class="styleboldunderline">no rule of law obtains</span>.


Module: Executive Power

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Legal procedures that take place outside of the federal judicial system allow the executive to stack the deck against defendants.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Benson and Lewis 2010 [Daniel Benson & Calvin Lewis “REPEAL OF THE MILITARY COMMISSIONS ACT” SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA REVIEW OF LAW AND SOCIAL JUSTICE. Vol. 19. No. 2. Spring 2010.]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Considering the procedural</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the ﬁrst order of business was to actually "eliminate legal constraints</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Forum choice facilitates abuses of power.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">JANET ALEXANDER 2012 [Frederick I. Richman Professor of Law, Stanford Law School. “MILITARY COMMISSIONS: A PLACE OUTSIDE THE LAW’S REACH” Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 2115073. July 21, 2012]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">More deeply troubling</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the rule of law.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Transparency is better in federal courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Devon Chaffee 2011 [Advocacy Counsel for Human Rights First's Law and Security Program “ARTICLE: Military Commissions Revived: Persisting Problems of Perception” University of New Hampshire Law Review. Vol. 9. March, 2011.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Beyond the issue of public access to the military commission proceedings and related documents,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">to undermine the system's</span> <span class="styleboldunderline">credibility and the public's confidence in the</span> commissions' <span class="styleboldunderline">results.¶</span>


Module: Innocence

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Jury trials offered in criminal courts protect the innocent from undue punishment. On the other hand alternatives, such as military tribunals are designed to make conviction easier, increasing the risk that innocents will be punished. </span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://polisci.uoregon.edu/acrobat/HTCorbett.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">A highly valued </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">punishment possible: death</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">the evidentiary rules in article III courts protect defendants from abuse at the hands of the government. Alternatives that loosen standards of evidence are designed to disadvantage defendants based on what they are accused of doing, violating the principle that the accused are innocent until proven guilty. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Devon Chaffee 2011 [Advocacy Counsel for Human Rights First's Law and Security Program “ARTICLE: Military Commissions Revived: Persisting Problems of Perception” University of New Hampshire Law Review. Vol. 9. March, 2011.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">In the absence </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">until proven guilty</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The rigging of the game against defendants is even more pernicious in light of evidence that suggests nearly 90% of those detained on suspicion of terrorism are innocent. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Lieutenant Colonel David Frakt 2011 [Associate Professor of Law at the Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law, Barry University, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Judge Advocate Gernal’s Corps Reserve. “MOHAMMED JAWAD AND THE MILITARYCOMMISSIONS OF GUANTÁNAMO” DUKE LAW JOURNAL. Vol. 60.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">After </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">a year-long </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">innocence in court. 212</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">The rule of law requires procedures that are designed to ensure the innocent are spared wrongful prosecution. A just legal system must be designed to find the truth and protect the innocent. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Rawls [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 209-210.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, there are </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">and regularly</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> maintained.</span>

==Negative== 

===ICC CP=== 

Text

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> The United States of America will submit non-citizens accused of terrorism to be prosecuted under the International Criminal Court (the ICC).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Competition</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Mutual exclusivity</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Net Benefits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Solvency: Fairness</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">International trials are key - strengthens perception that procedures are fair. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura Dickinson 2002 [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW.” Southern California Law Review. Vol. 75. 2002. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~usclrev/pdf/075602.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. DT. </span>



"To be sure...citizens apprehended abroad."


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The ICC will be seen as legitimate by the world.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mira Banchik 2003. Terrorism: International Law & Practice. The International Criminal Court & Terrorism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The ICC is a neutral forum for prosecution on the international level. In accordance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">international and geographically equitable selected panel of judges, is an unbiased forum.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10.5pt;">Solvency: Secret Intelligence</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I solve for secret intelligence being released – international tribunals aren't bound by the //Brady// rule. ICTY proves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michael P. Scharf 2001. [Law Prof and Dir. Of War Crimes Research at Case Western, Dir. Ctr for Int’l Law & Policy, New Eng School of Law; former Atty-Adviser for U.N. Affairs @ U.S. State Dept]. “The Case for an International Trial of the al-Qaeda and Taliban Perpetrators of the 9/11 Attacks”. 36 New England Law Review 911. DT.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fourth,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> the ICTY</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">may be exculpatory.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">International tribunals protect sensitive information and actually strengthen intelligence networks - key to stop terrorism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Laura Dickinson 2002 [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW.” Southern California Law Review. Vol. 75. 2002.</span> DT.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In order to see how an international process helps to create a context</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">has already relied considerably on intelligence provided by other</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ ¶</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> countries.187</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">An international criminal proceeding could help to strengthen the</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">¶ ¶</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> needed intelligence-</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">could form the basis for an enhanced structure for ongoing intelligence-sharing.</span>

===**National Security Courts CP**=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Text</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States will create and send noncitizens accused of terrorism to an Article III National Security Court or NSC.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lunday, Kevin and Rishikof, Harvey [Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard; Rishikof is a professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College]. “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT.” California Western International Law Journal. Vol. 39. 2008. AW. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">“</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States should create a specialized Article III National Security Court … and the United States would be able to close Camp Delta at Guantanamo Bay.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Competition</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1. Mutual exclusivity:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">a. Aff must defend Article III federal courts</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">b. NSC for noncitizens only.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. “Governing law in general. The NSC’s jurisdiction</span> over CSRT-reviews … <span class="styleboldunderline">would be extremely challenging, to say the least.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">c. Different trial processes can’t occur for the same people at the same time</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">d. Double jeopardy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2. Net benefits</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Solvency: Due Process</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Maintains due process. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. “This does not mean that there could be no conceivable, …have to be spelled out with rigor.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Solvency: Secret Intelligence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NSCs would be well equipped to handle classified and sensitive information.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lunday, Kevin and Rishikof, Harvey [Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard; Rishikof is a professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College]. “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT.” California Western International Law Journal. Vol. 39. 2008. AW.“Others argue that the CIPA provides adequate procedures…sensitive but unclassified information from unauthorized disclosure.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Efficient counter-terror efforts are key to stopping attacks that could kill millions.</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Charles </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Meade</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Roger C. Molander. “Considering the Effects of a Catastrophic Terrorist Attack.” RAND. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2006</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AW. </span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Within the first 72 hours, … gas west of the Rockies.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Solvency: International Legitimacy </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">National security courts key to legitimacy. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Glenn Sulmasy 09 [National Security and Human Rights Fellow, Harvard University, and Professor of Law, Commander and Judge Advocate, U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The National Security Court System: A Natural Evolution of Justice in an Age of Terror. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2009] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“A specialized terrorist court, such as the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">national security legal </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">resilience to an adjudication process that has been admittedly unsuccessful.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NSC’s legitimize US action. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lunday, Kevin and Rishikof, Harvey [Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard; Rishikof is a professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College]. “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT.” California Western International Law Journal. Vol. 39. 2008. AW.“A common objection to the establishment of an NSC … that is designed to strategically combat terrorism over the long term.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal courts discourage cooperation from allies. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. “The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">discovery requirements endanger national security … the generous discovery laws that apply in U.S. criminal proceedings.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NSC’s solve by fostering international support. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">McCarthy and Velshi 09, Andrew C. McCarthy [Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies], Alykhan Velshi, [staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force], “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009. “As detailed above, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">many problems have arisen</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> materially harming our security or imperiling our armed forces.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">”</span>

Solvency: Constitutionality


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NSCs are constitutional. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lunday, Kevin andRishikof, Harvey [Lunday is a </span>Captain and judge advocate in the U.S.Coast Guard; Rishikof is a professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College<span style="font-size: 10pt;">]. “</span>DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT.” //California Western International Law Journal.//Vol.39.<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2008</span>. AW. “There is constitutional…the United States”.

Constitutional precedent with a NSC for immigration.

Bill West 2009. [Consultant to the Investigative Project on Terrorism. He retired in 2003 as chief of the national security section for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)] “National Security Court? We Already Have One”. //The Investigative Project on Terrorism News.// January 26, 2009. http://www.investigativeproject.org/984/national-security-court-we-already-have-one. DT. “Before the ATRC...and controlled fashion.”

===Courts Martial CP=== 

A. TEXT: The United States Federal Government will amend Article 2 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and give exclusive jurisdiction over unlawful enemy combatants to General Courts Martial and will classify all non-citizens accused of terrorism as unlawful enemy combatants.


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">John Gregory 2010 [Judge Advocate in the US Army and Chief of Military Justice. TRYING UNLAWFUL COMBATANTS AT GENERAL COURTS- MARTIAL: AMENDING THE UCMJ IN LIGHT OF THE MILITARY COMMISSIONS EXPERIENCE. Military Law Review Volume 203. 2010. Hein Online. “For a concrete…Article 2’s scope.” </span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[Glazier, David. “Playing by the rules: combating al Qaeda within the law of war.” William and Mary Law Review, 51.3. Dec 2009.AJ.] “The first step…participating in hostilities.” </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> B. Competition:</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">1) Can’t try citizens – narrow definition of unlawful combatant. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">John Gregory 2010 [Judge Advocate in the US Army and Chief of Military Justice. TRYING UNLAWFUL COMBATANTS AT GENERAL COURTS- MARTIAL: AMENDING THE UCMJ IN LIGHT OF THE MILITARY COMMISSIONS EXPERIENCE. Military Law Review Volume 203. 2010. Hein Online. “</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The proposed definition…or coalition partners.” </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2) Different trial rights – juries, for example</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3) Different prodecural protections – evidence, hearsay, interrogation, etc. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solvency: Jury Impartiality </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jarrett Alan Benkendorfer 2012. COURTS-MARTIAL AND CIVILIAN COURTS: HOW THE COURT MARTIAL AFFORDS GREATER CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS DURING COURT PROCEDURES AND SENTENCING. THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA. Thesis Submitted to The Honors College. School of Government and Public Policy. MAY 2012. DT. “Perhaps the greatest…from commanding authorities.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advantage: : Sentence enhancement </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jarrett Alan Benkendorfer 2012. COURTS-MARTIAL AND CIVILIAN COURTS: HOW THE COURT MARTIAL AFFORDS GREATER CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS DURING COURT PROCEDURES AND SENTENCING. THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA. Thesis Submitted to The Honors College. School of Government and Public Policy. MAY 2012. DT. “Another constitutional guarantee…at a retrial.”</span>



===**Secret Intelligence DA**=== 


Uniqueness

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> A. Intelligence currently leads to the interdiction of most terrorist plots. Coburn et al 11:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The principal scientific AND of good fortune).</span>


Link

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B. The trial right for the defendant to hear evidence against them unique to civilian courts leads to the release of important classified information.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kendall Coffey 2003. “The Case for Military Tribunals: Don’t Force Courts to Choose Between the Constitution and American Lives.” May 2003. http://kendallcoffey.com/pdfs/publications/Case_for_Military_Tribunals.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">District Court Judge AND war on terror.</span>

Internal Links

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">C. Intelligence leaks compromise sources of intelligence gathering and threatens national security. Bruce:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">James Bruce 2004. “The Consequences of Permissive Neglect.” CIA Studies in Intelligence. Vol 41 No. 1.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Intelligence requires secrets. And secrecy is under assault. The future of US intelligence</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">policymakers and warfighters, and the citizenry that it is meant to serve.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">D. Good intelligence is key to counterterrorism efforts – it reduces the risk by 90%.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Where intelligence services</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">in every six.</span>

Impact

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">E. Terrorism if unchecked causes extinction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dennis Morgan 2009 [Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus]. South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Moore points out</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">a nuclear winter.</span>


===Elections DA=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Uniqueness</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Obama is the favorite to win in November, but his lead is narrow.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cameron Joseph 9/17 2012 [Campaign Reporter for The Hill. With 50 days until the election, Obama holds edge over Romney” The Hill. 9/17 2012. http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/249745-obama-holds-edge-over-romney-50-days-before-the-election]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">With 50 days</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">for the president.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">But, even a small event or shift could throw the election to Romney. Obama’s lead is tenuous.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Charlie Cook 9/17 [Editor and Publisher of The Cook Political Report; Columnist for the National Journal “Obama’s a Good Bet” National Journal. September 17, 2012. http://www.govexec.com/oversight/on-politics/2012/09/obamas-good-bet/58156/?oref=river]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Any number of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">capitalize on it.</span>

Link Version 1 (Greenhill Round Robin Rounds 4,7)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B. Due process protections for non-citizen terrorists are hugely unpopular and alienate the large majority of voters</span><span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Peyton Knight</span> [“Only 20% of Americans Strongly Support Obama Terror Trials.” PRWeb. Polls by Zogby International/O’Leary Press. http://www.prweb.com/releases/American_Voters/9-11_Trials/prweb3255354.htm ]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Obama administration’s</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The O’Leary Report.</span>

Link Version 2 (Not sure if read)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Quinnipiac 2010</span> [Quinniiac University “February 10, 2010 - U.S. Voters Say Gays In Military Should Come Out, Quinnipiac University National Poll Finds; Voters Want Military Trials For Terror Suspects” http://www.quinnipiac.edu/institutes-and-centers/polling-institute/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=1422]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American voters say 59 - 35 percent t...</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> suspected terrorists should have the same rights as ordinary criminals.</span>

Obama become vulnerable to criticism for being soft on terrorism.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jack Goldsmith 4/26</span> [“Obama’s Weak Spots on Terror are Open to Romney.” Washington Post April 26 2012. [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-weak-spots-on-counterterrorism-are-open-to-romney/2012/04/26/gIQAJ42zjT_story.html]] ]

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Although he has ...</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">on </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">terrorist</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> interrogation.</span>



Internal Link

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">C. Romney election results in Iran strikes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Recent statement by Romney and his advisors make it likely that if elected he would strike Iran.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Murtaza Hussain 9/13 [Writes on foreign policy and civil liberties for Al Jazeera and Prism Magazine. “Why war with Iran would spell disaster” The Nation. September 13, 2012 . http://www.nation.com.pk/pakistan-news-newspaper-daily-english-online/international/13-Sep-2012/why-war-with-iran-would-spell-disaster]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In the past</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the Great Depression.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Romney is MORE likely to strike Iran than Obama. Prefer my comparative evidence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Doyle McManus 9/16 [Columnist LA times, member of the Council on Foreign Relations. “McManus: Romney vs. Obama on foreign policy” Los Angeles Times. September 16, 2012. http://articles.latimes.com/2012/sep/16/opinion/la-oe-mcmanus-column-20120914]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The clearest difference</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">bolder, U.S. role</span>

Impact

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">D. A U.S. attack on Iran would not stop it from developing weapons and would lead to a full-blown war that would be worse than Iraq and Afghanistan combined.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robert Burns 9/12 [Reporter, Associated Press “Report: US military attack on Iran would shake regime but also risk all-out Mideast war” Vancouver Sun. September 12, 2012. http://www.vancouversun.com/news/Report+military+attack+Iran+would+shake+regime+also+risk+allout/7233555/story.html#ixzz26sO7O8Vt]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. military strikes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">74,000 troops there.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This conflict escalates to all-out nuclear war in the worst-case scenario, or mass proliferation and conflict in the best. Either option causes extinction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Jorge Hirsch 2005 [Professor @ UC San Diego “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM – BRW]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Bush administration</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">many times over.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Pakistan Drone Strikes DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Uniqueness</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drone strikes increasing.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jonathan Master, “Targeted Killings” Council on Foreign Relations. April 30, 2012. “Targeted attacks launched … on the source.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Link</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aff bans drone strikes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Internal Link</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drone strikes in Pakistan have disrupted the ability of militants to carry out operations. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Aaron Y. Zelin [Richard Borow Fellow in the Washington Institute for Near East Policy's Stein Program on Counterterrorism and Intelligence]. “Dodging the drones: How militants have responded to the covert US campaign” Foreign Policy. August 31, 2012. http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/08/31/dodging_the_drones_how_militants_have_responded_to_the_covert_us_campaign] “Frequent </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">drone strikes … across the country.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This is empirically proven by a study based on open-source reports of targeted killings in Pakistan. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Patrick B. Johnston and Anoop Sarbahi 2012 [Associate Political Scientist, RAND Corporation and Post-Doctoral Scholar, Department of Political Science, Stanford University. “The Impact of U.S. Drone Strikes on Terrorism in Pakistan” February 25, 2012. http://patrickjohnston.info/materials/drones.pdf] “Column 1 of of… militant attacks. 12”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Impact</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Incursions by militants like the Taliban risk destabilizing Pakistan. With elections coming up a failed campaign in Waziristan this year could pose an existential risk to Pakistan. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Daniel Markey 9/3 [Senior Fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia at The Council on Foreign Relations Asia Program. “Eye of the Storm for US-Pakistan Relations” ISN. 9/3/2012. http://isnblog.ethz.ch/international-relations/eye-of-the-storm-for-us-pakistan-relations] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The political contests … the state itself."</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Extinction.</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World.” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “The prospect of…with unimaginable disaster.”</span>

===Targeted Killing DA=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Due process paradoxically increases the governments reliance on targeted killing.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scarborough 2011 [Rowan Scarborough. Reporter, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institute “Al-Awlaki would have been difficult to try as a civilian; U.S. killed American-born terrorist.” The Washington Times. October 4, 2011. Pg. 8.]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taking Anwar al-Awlaki…mark my words</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Targeted killing increases terrorism.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Targeted killing actually increases the organization strength of large terrorists groups, the groups with the greatest capacity to launch deadly attacks.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">JENNA JORDAN 09 [“When Heads Roll: Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation” Security Studies, 18:719–755, 2009 Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The data on…against small organizations</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Targeted killing increases terrorists recruitment.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Glenn Johnson 2007 [NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL. MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS. MORTUS DISCRIMINATUS: PROCEDURES IN TARGETED KILLING. by Glenn Johnson June 2007. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469936&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Targeted killing operations…terror stock recruitment</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Targeted killing guts our ability to gather intelligence to prevent future attacks.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marc Thiessen 2010 [Marc Thiessen “Dead Terrorists Tell no Tales? Foreign Policy, 2/8/10,[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/08/dead_terrorists_tell_no_tales?page=0,1]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Barack Obama's…to strike America</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intelligence is the best way to fight terrorism.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ely Karmon 2006. [“The Role of Intelligence in Counter-Terrorism.” [[http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/14/ely_karmon.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The last months…to future generations</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. A major terrorist attack would escalate to global conflict and potentially cause extinction.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed [staff writer, Al-Ahram Issue 705, September 1, 2004, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have reached…winners and losers.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> T - Targeted Killing</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation: Definition of accused. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> The Gale Group, Inc. “The generic name…whichever occurs first.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Violation: The aff garners offense by extending due process protections to ban targeted killing. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. Topic literature:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A] Legal Precision</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B] Academic Discussion</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Fairness</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E. Framework: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) T comes before theory</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) No RVIs on T</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Drop the debater on T</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

===Apple Valley AC=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Torrey defines universal health care</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Torrey, Trisha. “What is Universal Healthcare Coverage?” About.com guide. October 16, 2008. “Universal healthcare’ or…through single-payer systems.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: J</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In a democracy justice serves the purpose of providing a shared basis of public justification between citizens. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Samuel Freeman [Avalon Professor in the Humanities at The University of Pennsylvania. Justice and the Social Contract: Essays on Rawlsian Political Philosophy. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2007. 37] [brackets from “provide….institutions” are in original]. “We have considered…a democratic society.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only what citizens would rationally will from a shared point of view can be just. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Samuel Freeman 2 [Avalon Professor in the Humanities at The University of Pennsylvania. Justice and the Social Contract: Essays on Rawlsian Political Philosophy. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2007. 40-42] [brackets in original]. “[Kantian constructivism] is a more specialized … ourselves as free and equal.53”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is implausible to consider freedom merely a negative right to noninterference. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Hollenbach – The Common Good Revisited. Theological Studies. 50:1 (1989 March). “Because of these…human beings act.” DT.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The shared point-of-view necessary for rational agreement is represented by the original position.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">John Rawls [Held James Bryant Conant Professorship at Harvard. Political Liberalism. Columbia University Press. 1996. Pg 23-26]. “Justice as fairness…the best reasons.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Behind the veil of ignorance citizens would design a system that benefits the least advantaged.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jay Schulkin, Paul Kleindorfer. [“Equity decisions: economic development and environmental prudence,” Human Rights Quarterly, 1995 v. 17 p. 386.] “The second moral…role in society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We must adopt a principle of equality of opportunity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Danny Scoccia [prof of phil, NM State. " Rawls, The Difference Principle, and Equality of Opportunity." [[http://web.nmsu.edu/~dscoccia/320web/320RawlsDP.pdf]]] “The basic </span><span class="styleboldunderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">motivation</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">…to unequal opportunity.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">VC: ensuring equality of opportunity</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 1 IS EQUAL OPPORTUNITY</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, there are severe health care access issues. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[TARA PARKER-POPE 2009. "Medical Bills Cause Most Bankruptcies." New York Times, Well Blog. JUNE 4 2009] “Nearly two out…inflicts fiscal ones.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lack of accessible health care impedes the equality of opportunity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Norman Daniels (Tufts University). Justice, Health, and Health Care. American Journal of Bioethics, 2001 - Taylor & Francis.] “By maintaining normal…extended to health care.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, the lack of affordable health care traps the poor in poverty and closes off life options.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [William P. Marshall “National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture” Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina. Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35: 2012. “One of the most…are as nation”]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, universal health care would be effective at reducing both unhealthiness and economic inequality. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[Elena Gelormino , Clare Bambra , Teresa Spadea , Silvia Bellini , Giuseppe Costa, “The Effects of Health Care Reforms on Health Inequalities: A Review and Analysis of the European Evidence Base”, International Journal of Health Services, Volume 41, No. 2.] “The studies that…of income distribution.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A system absent universal healthcare results in absurdly expensive care. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Zakaria, Fareed [From 2000 to 2010, he was a columnist for Newsweek and editor of Newsweek International. In 2010 he became editor-at-large of Time magazine]. "Health Insurance Is for Everyone." Global Public Square. CNN, 16 Mar. 2012. Web. [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/03/16/health-insurance-is-for-everyone]] “The result two…$281 in France.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 2 IS SMALL BUSINESSES</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We’re on the brink of a double-dip recession. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Agustino Fontevecchia September 21 [“Double-Dip Recession 20% To 25% Likely If Fiscal Cliff Hits, S&P Warns” Forbes, 9/21/12 [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2012/09/21/double-dip-recession-20-to-25-likely-if-fiscal-cliff-hits-sp-warns/]]</span><span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">] AT</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “No matter what…slow to 0.4%.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The U.S. currently has a small business sector smaller than that of the vast majority of OECD countries.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">JOHN SCHMITT AND NATHAN LANE 09 – August 2009. “An International Comparison of Small Business Employment”. Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR). “One plausible explanation…and Italy (74.8 percent).” DT.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Universal health care increases entrepreneurial activity – grows small business sector.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">WELLINGTON 01, Alison. 2001. “Health Insurance Coverage and Entrepreneurship,” Contemporary Economic Policy, vol. 19, no. 4 (October), pp. 465-78. “Policies that increase…supply of entrepreneurs.” DT.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Small businesses control the strongest internal link to economic growth and job creation.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">L. Clark III and Radwan Saade - September 2010. The Role of Small Business in Economic Development of the United States: From the End of the Korean War (1953) to the Present. SBA Office of Advocacy. “Small businesses currently…area program. Xliv</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Economic collapse causes extinction.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thomas Bearden 2000 [(Lt. Col in US Army) “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis”, Free Republic, June 24, p. online wyo-tjc] “History bears out…for many decades.”</span>


----

===Health Trust System AC v1=== 


I affirm. Torrey defines universal health care: Torrey, Trisha. “What is Universal Healthcare Coverage?” About.com guide. October 16, 2008. “Universal healthcare’ or…through single-payer systems.”

V: J

People accept utilitarianism as an appropriate way to judge the actions of decision-makers.

Gino et al 2008 [Francesca Gino Kenan-Flagler Business School, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Don Moore Tepper Business School, Carnegie Mellon University, Max H. Bozman Harvard Business School, Harvard University “No harm, no foul: The outcome bias in ethical judgments”] AT. "The present … assessment of the decision’s quality."

Util is the best way for government to rule because any public policy entails tradeoffs.

Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10] “Moreover, virtually all … in a democracy.”

S: Minimizing Harm

Alternative standards are unacceptable because they are inappropriate for the resolution of interpersonal conflict.

Peter Mack. [“Utilitarian Ethics in Healthcare.” International Journal of the Computer, the Internet, and Management Vol. 12, No.3. 2004. Department of Surgery. Singapore General Hospital.] “Medicine is a …non-utility aspects of the situation are ignored.”

There is no act-omission distinction.

James Rachels. [“Killing and Letting Die.” Encyclopedia of Ethics, 2nd edition, ed. Lawrence Becker and Charlotte Becker (New York: Routledge, 2001), vol. 2, pp. 947-50] “So what is the difference… I may be moving my body very rapidly.”

CONTENTION 1: PROBLEMS

A] Costs are the number one barrier to medical care. Medical expenses are the #1 cause of bankruptcies.

Warren et al 2009. “Medical Bankruptcy in the United States, 2007: Results of a National Study”. 2009. American Journal of Medicine, 122, 741-746. David U. Himmelstein [Harvard Medical School], Deborah Thorne [Ohio University, Athens], Elizabeth Warren [Harvard Law School]. DT. Illness or medical bills … pay medical bills.

B] Market failures leave those who need care most with none of it.

Maureen Lewis 06 [World Bank’s Research Department, and was previously the chief economist of Human Development during which she oversaw the economic and policy work of the World Bank in the area of human development, encompassing health, education, labor markets, pensions and welfare. She is an expert on the economics of health and health systems and has worked in more than 30 countries.] “Governance and Corruption in Public Health Care Systems” The Center For Global Development. Working Paper Number 78 January 2006. DT. Unlike other goods … implications for payers.¶


C] The US health care system fails to promote preventive services.

CDC 6/15/2012. “Use of Selected Clinical Preventive Services Among Adults — United States, 2007–2010”. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. Supplement. Volume 61. DT. The findings of … or a medical home.

Preventive services control costs and save millions of life years.

Michael V. Maciosek et al 2010, Ashley B. Coffield, Thomas J. Flottemesch, Nichol M. Edwards, and Leif I. Solberg. “Greater Use Of Preventive Services In U.S. Health Care Could Save Lives At Little Or No Cost”. HEALTH AFFAIRS 29, NO. 9 (2010): 1656–1660. DT. Increasing Use From … in net cost.

CONTENTION 2: SOLVENCY

Subpoint A: Advocacy.

I advocate that the United States Congress ought to create a National Health Trust and Regional Health Trusts partially modeled on the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan. I reserve the right to clarify funding mechanisms and implementation.

Dov Chernichovsky and Arleen Leibowitz 1 [Cherchinovsky works at the National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz works at the Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV at UCLA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT. "We propose a …majority to RHTs."

Leibowitz 2 continues: The proposed HTS … the enrollee contribution.


CONTENTION 2

Subpoint B: Cost Control

First, a Health Trust System would decrease costs and improve delivery.

Dov Chernichovsky and Arleen Leibowitz 3 [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UC LA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT. "An HTS would … of health spending."


The NHT makes solving health disparities possible. Healthcare.gov Elimination of Health Disparities. National¶ Prevention Strategy, US Department of HHS. DT. [Date not specified but it cites 2009 articles, so 2009 or later] "Data, particularly for …address health disparities."

Subpoint C: Preventive Care.

Current proposals fail. RHTs emphasize preventive interventions by balancing private and public health interventions

Dov Chernichovsky and Arleen Leibowitz 4 [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UCLA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT. The FEHBP and …in nonhealth areas.31

Second, using risk-capitation payments incentivizes preventive care and improves efficiency.

Rodrigo Castro Apablaza et al 2006, MSc, Camilo Cid Pedraza, MA, Alfredo ¶ Roman, MPH, and Neel Butala. “Changing Health Care Provider Incentives to ¶ Promote Prevention: The Chilean Case.” Harvard Health Policy Review Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 102-112. Fall 2006. https://www.wbginvestmentclimate.org/toolkits/health-in-africa-policy-toolkit/upload/Apablaza_et_al.pdf. DT. The addition of risk-adjusted capitation …preventive ¶ services offered.

Subpoint D is Regional Administration.

First, my health care system is regionally tailored – maximizes effective healthcare provision.

Dov Chernichovsky and Arleen Leibowitz 5. [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UCLA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT. An NHT would … their health potential.

Second, my policies are more effective over time.

Richard Briffault. 1992 [“Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992] AT Finally, placing responsibility … advocates of federalism.’


===Health Trust System AC v2=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">V: J </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Resolutional is a distributional question.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obligations must be understood relationally. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political philosophy concerns design as opposed to contingent decisionmaking. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Justice provides a shared basis of public justification. The question isn’t about absolute moral truths. Instead, it’s about what is most reasonable within a pluralistic society. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Samuel Freeman [Avalon Professor in the Humanities at The University of Pennsylvania. Justice and the Social Contract: Essays on Rawlsian Political Philosophy. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2007. 37] “We have considered …a democratic society”.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only what citizens would rationally will from a shared point of view can be just. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Samuel Freeman 2 [Avalon Professor in the Humanities at The University of Pennsylvania. Justice and the Social Contract: Essays on Rawlsian Political Philosophy. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2007. 40-42] “[Kantian constructivism] is a more specialized notion …ourselves as free and equal.53” (brackets in original text). </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Furthermore, it is implausible to consider freedom merely a negative right to noninterference. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1) Governments have obligations to equally empower people to pursue their goals. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Hollenbach – The Common Good Revisited. Theological Studies. 50:1 (1989 March). “Because of these…human beings act.” DT. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2) Basic subsistence rights can’t be wholly negative or positive because they are key to other rights and need to be enforced in addition to protected. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The shared point-of-view necessary for rational agreement is represented by the original position. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Veil = least arbitrary, doesn’t account for arbitrary contextual factors.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, citizens view themselves as legislators within the sphere of public reason. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">John Rawls. The Law of Peoples. Pages 56-57. 1999. AJ. “How is the ideal of public reason …understanding among peoples.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Behind the veil, citizens would design a system that benefitted the least advantaged </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1) Helping the most advantaged provides less utility than the least advantaged. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2) People are risk-averse</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus, we must adopt a principle of equality of opportunity. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Danny Scoccia [prof of phil, NM State. " Rawls, The Difference Principle, and Equality of Opportunity." [[http://web.nmsu.edu/~dscoccia/320web/320RawlsDP.pdf]]] “The basic motivation …to unequal opportunity.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S: ensuring equality of opportunity. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1) People are moral equals absent a morally relevant distinction, so a) natural lottery is arbitrary and b) presume aff</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2) External pressures affect our choices in random ways, so we should minimize those factors when considering which actions to take. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, prefer a comparative worlds paradigm </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A) Reciprocity</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B) Ground</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C) Clash</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 1: PROBLEMS</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A] Costs are the number one barrier to medical care. Medical expenses are the #1 cause of bankruptcies.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Warren et al 2009. “Medical Bankruptcy in the United States, 2007: Results of a National Study”. 2009. American Journal of Medicine, 122, 741-746. David U. Himmelstein [Harvard Medical School], Deborah Thorne [Ohio University, Athens], Elizabeth Warren [Harvard Law School]. DT. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Illness or medical … to pay medical bills.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lack of accessible health care impedes the equality of opportunity. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Norman Daniels (Tufts University). Justice, Health, and Health Care. American Journal of Bioethics, 2001 - Taylor & Francis.] By maintaining … with none of it. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B] Market failures leave those who need care most with none of it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Maureen Lewis 06 [World Bank’s Research Department, and was previously the chief economist of Human Development during which she oversaw the economic and policy work of the World Bank in the area of human development, encompassing health, education, labor markets, pensions and welfare. She is an expert on the economics of health and health systems and has worked in more than 30 countries.] “Governance and Corruption in Public Health Care Systems” The Center For Global Development. Working Paper Number 78 January 2006. DT. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unlike other goods … implications for payers.¶ </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C] The US health care system fails to promote preventive services. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CDC 6/15/2012. “Use of Selected Clinical Preventive Services Among Adults — United States, 2007–2010”. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. Supplement. Volume 61. DT. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The findings of …a medical home.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D] Preventive services control costs and save millions of life years – the impacts are systemic.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael V. Maciosek et al 2010, Ashley B. Coffield, Thomas J. Flottemesch, Nichol M. Edwards, and Leif I. Solberg. “Greater Use Of Preventive Services In U.S. Health Care Could Save Lives At Little Or No Cost”. HEALTH AFFAIRS 29, NO. 9 (2010): 1656–1660. DT. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increasing Use From … increase in net cost.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">E) The lack of affordable health care traps the poor in poverty and closes off life options. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[William P. Marshall “National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture” Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina. Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35: 2012.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One of the most … with who we are as nation. </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 2: SOLVENCY</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SUBPOINT A: ADVOCACY</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I advocate that the United States Congress create a National Health Trust and Regional Health Trusts modeled on the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan. I reserve the right to clarify funding mechanisms and implementation. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dov Chernichovsky and Arleen Leibowitz 2010. [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UCLA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We propose a … majority to RHTs.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">They continue: </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The proposed HTS …the enrollee contribution.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SUBPOINT B: COST CONTROL</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Health Trust System would decrease costs and improve delivery. A national trust is uniquely important – 3 warrants.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dov Chernichovsky 2 and Arleen Leibowitz 2010. [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UC</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">LA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An HTS would … of health spending.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SUBPOINT C: PREVENTIVE CARE</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Current proposals fail because they don’t balance between population-level interventions and personal services. Aff promotes long-term health. My health care system is regionally tailored, which maximizes effective healthcare provision.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dov Chernichovsky 3 and Arleen Leibowitz 2010. [Cherchinovsky - National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA. Leibowitz - Department of Public Policy, School of Public Affairs, and the Center for HIV @UCLA]. “Integrating Public Health and Personal Care in a Reformed US Health Care System.” Am J Public Health. 2010 February; 100(2): 205–211. DT.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An NHT would use risk-adjusted capitations … realize their health potential.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, risk-capitation payments incentivize preventive care and improve efficiency.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rodrigo Castro Apablaza et al 2006, MSc, Camilo Cid Pedraza, MA, Alfredo ¶ Roman, MPH, and Neel Butala. “Changing Health Care Provider Incentives to ¶ Promote Prevention: The Chilean Case.” Harvard Health Policy Review Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 102-112. Fall 2006. https://www.wbginvestmentclimate.org/toolkits/health-in-africa-policy-toolkit/upload/Apablaza_et_al.pdf. DT.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The addition of …preventive ¶ services offered.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Aff gets RVIs, need to collapse in the 2AR. No neg RVIs.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Theory - Aff may run a plan</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A. Counterinterpretation: The aff may specify an advocacy that establishes a particular system of universal health care and not accept generic negative disadvantages as long as: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- The system is modeled on systems that are currently used by multiple developed countries.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- There is an AC solvency advocate that has a degree in a relevant scholarly field</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- The article was published in the American Journal of Public Health within the last 3 years and can be found on the website of the National Institutes of Health.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- More than 10 other articles or papers cite the paper on Google Scholar.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- The aff is disclosed on the NDCA wiki.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">B. I meet.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C. Standards:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Resolvability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Clash</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">D. Voters: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Deep Learning</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Fairness</span>


==Negative== 

===States Rights NC=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">V: J</span>

Government must represent interests of people - institutional obligation.

Need a system of checks and balances.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Dennis Mueller [Professor of Economics (Emeritus) at the University of Vienna. CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 1996.] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"The specter has been … abide by it."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The setup of government that best preserves its citizens’ freedom is federalism. States’ rights are necessary to check the tyranny of the federal government.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steven Calabresi. 1995. [“A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers,” Michigan Law Review December, 1995. Associate Professor, Northwestern University School of Law.] AT. "Second, there is … a vital guarantor of liberty."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S: Maintaining states’ rights. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) States rights are key to ensure that policies are effectively implemented and monitored at the micro level</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) States’ rights are necessary to mitigate violence between people. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Norman Ornstein and Kimberly Coursen 1992 [As the World Turns Democratic, Federalism Finds Favor The American Enterprise, ISSN 1047-3572, 01/1992, Volume 3, Issue 1, p. 20]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"No word in … focus on federalism."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend that federal control of health care, traditionally a state issue, tramples states’ rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Briffault. 1992 [“Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” //Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992//] AT. "Nevertheless, reliance on the … worse than none?". </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Single-payer (or whatever system aff defends) massively federalizes health policy. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ACA avoids the harms - best preserves federalism. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peter Harkness (founder and publisher emeritus of GOVERNING, now serves as a co-writer of the Potomac Chronicle column, former ditor and deputy publisher of the Congressional Quarterly news service) “The Affordable Care Act: A Case Study for Cooperative Federalism?” May 2012. http://www.governing.com/columns/potomac-chronicle/col-affordable-care-act-case-study-for-cooperative-federalism.html. "Oddly enough, if you care … a hallmark of the program.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Prefer cooperative federalism over creative federalism or other types of federalism (power balancing). </span>





===Innovation DA=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A is the Uniqueness: Biotechnology is growing now. The industry is recovering well from the economic crisis.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kevin Noonan writing on a speech by Steve Burrill. “Docs at BIO: Steve Burrill’s State of the Biotechnology Industry Report 2011.” July 5, 2011. Biotechnology Industries Organization International Convention. “The underlying theme … recent decision in [[http://www.patentdocs.org/2011/06/board-of-trustees-of-the-leland-stanford-junior-university-v-roche-molecular-systems-inc-2011.html|//Stanford v. Roche//]]).” AT.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B is the Link: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Universal health care destroys competition.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jacome Fazio 2009 [managing editor of the Northwestern Chronicle and weekly contributor to the D.C. Writeup, 09 ( Ryan “Public Option will pull the plug on medical innovation” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thedcwriteup.com/2009/07/public-option-will-pull-the-plug-on-medical-innovation]]</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">] </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“America, we often hear,…</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">innovation requires investment.” AT. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Biotech key to prevent and cure AIDS. </span>

<span class="TagsChar">Biotechnology Institute Organization:</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">( “AIDS: A Terrible Pandemic”, Your World, Biotechnology and You,</span>
http://www.biotechinstitute.org/sites/default/files/article-attachments/921.pdf <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AT.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meanwhile, every hour…</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> prevent new infection. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">Mutation and spread of AIDS ensures extinction. Every year we delay is another 3 million dead. American Computer Science Association: ("U.N.: HIV Epidemic continues to Spread" American Computer Science Association <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.acsa2000.net/aids/global_aids_ap.htm#ross|http://www.acsa2000.net/aids/global_aids_ap.htm#ross ]]</span>) “At a 12% annual …will eventually win". AT. </span>


===State Implementation CP=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A is the Counterplan Text: The United States Federal government will set federal standards that guarantee universal health care for all its citizens, but the 50 states of the United States and relevant subnational actors will implement the policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jerry Mashaw. 1995 [“The Case for Federalism and Health Care Reform” Yale Law School Faculty Scholarship Series. Paper 1188] “How would a proposal …of their choice. 12”. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Competition:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mutually exclusive </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Net benefits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Solvency: </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Universal health care implemented at the state level ensures better health policy because it ensures interstate variation is taken into account, and ensures better monitoring and revision of policies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Briffault. 1992 [“Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” //Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992//] AT. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Moreover, vesting some … differing state and local settings.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">State reform expands access to universal health care by being able to address the needs of specific communities.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Smedley et al 2008 ["Report Examines State Health Care Reforms That Target Minorities, Immigrants, Non-English Speaking Residents", Brian Smedley, Ph.D., Beatrice Alvarez, Rea Panares, M.H.S., Cheryl Fish-Parcham, M.S.W., and Sara Adland. The Commonwealth Fund, April 25 2008] AT</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Millions of people … actually addressing disparities.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The CP solves for affordability since states can continue existing programs that have already worked, and prevents high pricing due to uncertainty. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alan Weil 2012 [M.P.P., J.D. “The Value of Federalism in Defining Essential Health Benefits.” New England Journal of Medicine 366;8. February 23, 2012.<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJMp1200693]]</span> AW.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“The second reason to define…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">pricing because of uncertainty.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">State reform has the potential to greatly improve access to health care, especially among underserved populations – Massachusetts proves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kaiser Family Foundation, May 2012. [“Massachusetts Health Care Reform: Six Years Later.” The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. //Focus on Health Reform, May 2012.//]“Within a year of … in underserved areas.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kaiser Family Foundation, May 2012. [“Massachusetts Health Care Reform: Six Years Later.” The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. //Focus on Health Reform, May 2012.//]“Massachusetts must make … federal health reform.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Net benefit: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Uniqueness: States have control of health policy now – the Supreme Court’s ruling sets a strong precedent in favor of federalism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Davenport. June 29 [“Federalism’s Silver Lining in the Health Care Decision.” Forbes, 6/29/12.] AT “Perhaps only an …fight another day.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Link: Federal control of health care, traditionally a state issue, tramples states’ rights and destroys federalism.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Briffault. 1992 [“Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992] AT. “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nevertheless, reliance on …worse than none?”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Health care is a key issue – federal control here spills over and destroys the essence of federalism.Federalization of traditional state areas, such as health care policy, snowballs into greater federal control of policies elsewhere.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abigail Moncrieff 2009. [“Federalization Snowballs: The Need for National Action in Medical Malpractice Reform.” Columbia Law Review. Vol 109:844.] AT “The snowball effect …programs have created.97”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The solution is to return health care policy to state control; i.e., allow states to implement a nationalized health program. Any perm requires partial allocation of power to the federal government and would not meet the requirements of federalism. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Abigail Moncrieff 2009. [“Federalization Snowballs: The Need for National Action in Medical Malpractice Reform.” Columbia Law Review. Vol 109:844.] AT “a. Solving the Snowball. … longer be necessary.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Federalism prevents war and violence. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Norman Ornstein and Kimberly Coursen 1992 [As the World Turns Democratic, Federalism Finds Favor The American Enterprise, ISSN 1047-3572, 01/1992, Volume 3, Issue 1, p. 20] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“No word in … focus on federalism.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Netherlands CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A is the text: The US will adopt the Netherlands' health care system of managed competition. Implementation is through normal means, I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wynand PMM van de Van, Frederick T and Schut [Erasmus University] “Universal Mandatory Health Insurance with Managed Competition in the Netherlands: a model for the United States?” Itinera Institute. Forum. January 2008. "Policy analysts consider ... of health care.” </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B is the competition: </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Mutually exclusive: Different system of health care </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Net benefits: turns to aff are reasons to vote for the CP over the perm</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">BETTER THAN SINGLE PAYER – ACCESS TO MENTAL CARE</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Colleen Flood 2001. [“PROFILES OF SIX HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS: CANADA, AUSTRALIA, THE NETHERLANDS, NEW ZEALAND, THE UK, AND THE US” Faculty of Law, University of Toronto, Canada. April 30 2001.] AT “1. In contrast to Canada…health care providers.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONSISTENTLY HIGH PERFORMANCE </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Netherlands consistently performs higher due to its competition ensuring organization and quality of health care. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Arne Bjornberg 2012. [“European Health Consumer Index 2012 Report”. Health Consumer Powerhouse, 5/15/2012. Page 4-5] AT</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Netherlands is …and policymaking in Europe.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">DEPENDENCY</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Government programs increase dependency.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michael Cannon 2006 [“Analysis: Medicaid's Huge Hidden Costs” Heartlander, June 1 2006. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://news.heartland.org/newspaper-article/2006/06/01/analysis-medicaids-huge-hidden-costs]]</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">] AT</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. “B</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ut vouchers or HSAs may … long-term care needs.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Turns the economy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">William Beach and Patrick Tyrrell. 2012. [“The 2012 Index of Dependence on Government” The Heritage Foundation, Feb 8 2012. “Paying for these middle-class …functioning of democracy itself.”</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The CP solves for the wasteful current system and leads to long term economic growth. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alain C Enthoven [Stanford] “The History and Principles of Managed Competition” Health Affairs, 12, (1993):24-48. "Why attempt to .... by political forces"</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Single Payer CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government ought to implement a single-payer system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Physicians for a National Health Program clarify the plan. [“What is Single Payer?” <span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.pnhp.org/facts/what-is-single-payer]]</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">] AT. “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Single-payer is … reduce health inflation.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Competition:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Mutually exclusive with private care, perms are severance</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Net benefit: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A single payer system improves access to needed medical care and reduces disease rates while avoiding the problem of wait times – empirically verified by multiple studies in England and Canada. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Physicians for a National Health Program 2006. [“Study shows U.S. residents are less healthy, less able to access health care than Canadians” Posted May 31, 2006. Summary of Lasser et al’s 2006 study. (“Access to Care, Health Status, and Health Disparities in the United States and Canada: Results of a Cross-National Population-Based Survey” Karen E. Lasser, MD, MPH, David U. Himmelstein, MD, and Steffie Woolhandler, MD, MPH. //American Journal of Public Health, Vol 96 No 7, 2006.//) “Universal coverage appears … must we wait?”. </span>

===Theory - A2 Contracts/Ilaw Affs=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A) Interpretation: The aff may not simultaneously run a contracts-based standard that is descriptive in nature (i.e. the debate being over whether we have or have not signed a contract that requires us to implement some policy) AND claim both permissibility and obligation as aff ground.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B) Violation: </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C) Reasons to prefer:</span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">1) Ground: Contracts never set ceilings for rights claims, only floors. Constitution proves – there is 0 prohibition ground. </span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">Stewart G. Pollock. Associate Justice, Supreme Court of New Jersey, “State Constitutions as Separate Sources of Fundamental Rights.” RUTGERS LAW REVIEW VOLUME 35 Summer 1983 NUMBER 4. “Generally speaking, the … or federal constitution.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">Also applies to international contracts - no one makes contracts that prohibit extra benefits or rights. Even reservations or aspirations are just allowances - permissibility ground key for neg offense.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D) Voter: Fairness</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">E) Framework issues</span>

<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">Drop the debater, punishment deters.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">H. Brandt, C. Hauert, and K. Sigmund. "Punishment and Reputation in Spatial Public Goods Games." Proceedings of the Royal Society of London - Biological Sciences. 2003. 270 (1099-1104). “The previous scenarios…and quickly eliminated.”</span>



===Theory - Topical CPs Okay=== 


Counterinterpretation: The negative may run a counterplan that provides US citizens with universal healthcare as long as the counterplan implements a system that is used in the status quo by one or more countries and has a solvency advocate that advocates CP implementation in the United States and has a degree in a relevant scholarly field.


B. I meet.


C. Standards:

Predictability

D. Voter: Fairness


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 


===Crime AC=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: J</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice refers to the proper distribution of benefits and burdens.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also, obligations must be based on the actor since they differ from agent to agent. Political philosophy, which concerns government actions and structure, must be practical. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is a … also the rulers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moreover, questions of criminal law are not moral, they are questions of the design of political institutions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Guyora Binder [University at Buffalo Distinguished Professor of Law “Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?” BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW Vol. 5:321. 2002]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In their efforts … enable these ¶ energies.¶ 32</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In general, only utilitarianism can serve as the basis to legitimately justify policy to the public.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, virtually all …in a democracy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also, all questions of value collapse to how they affect end-states. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sam Harris 2010. [CEO Project Reason; PHD UCLA Neuroscience; BA Stanford Philosophy]. The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Here is my …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> foundation of all values.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the standard is adopting penal policies that minimize harm. Binder 2 explains the criterion: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Most criminal law …and constitutional control.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend that our current retributive policies are harmful and that a focus on rehabilitation would reduce crime. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Retributive policies have failed. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Roger K. Warren 2007 [Evidence-Based Practice to Reduce Recidivism: Implications for State Judiciaries, National Center for State Courts, for the Crime and Justice Institute and the National Institute of Corrections, August 2007]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Starting</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">inthe</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> …2001 to 6.6%.22</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The massive increases in the prison population have made criminals more violent and created social conditions that increase crime. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">JOHN TIERNEY </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2012</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [“For Lesser Crimes, Rethinking Life Behind Bars” NY Times. December 11, 2012.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Many </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">researchers agree …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a parent in prison.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Retributivist policies rely on faulty assumptions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) No deterrent effect</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">James McGuire 2004 [Understanding Psychology and Crime.¶ Berkshire, GBR: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004. ¶ AJ.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The broadest, though …to specific deterrence.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Retributivist theories fail to take into account environmental factors </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Okeghene Odudu 2003 [Deputy Director of the Centre for European Legal Studies at Cambridge University, Herchel Smith Lecturer and British Academy Mid-Career Fellow, “Retributivist Justice in an Unjust Society” Ratio Juris Vol. 16 No. 3 September 3003 (416-31)]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“[T]hose born into … a deprived background.¶</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Over half of all crime in previous decades can be explained by lead in peoples’ blood </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">James Q. Wilson 2011 [“Hard Times, Fewer Crimes” The Wall Street Journal. May 28, 2011.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There may also</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> for other nations.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Howard W. Mielkea Sammy Zahranc in August. [“The urban rise and fall of air lead (Pb) and the latent surge and retreat of societal violence. August 6, 2012. US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health. PubMed. <span style="text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22484219]]</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. AJ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We evaluate air …of aggravated assault.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Treatment programs that focus on rehabilitation are effective at reducing crime. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The evidence for intervention is overwhelmingly positive. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">McGuire 2: </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">What a journalist …coronary heart disease, 0.15. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Studies directly comparing rehabilitation programs with typical retributive programs show unequivocally that treatment is more effective at reducing recidivism. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">JEFF LATIMER et al 2005 [Department of Justice Canada CRAIG DOWDEN, Carleton University DANIELLE MUISE, PRA Inc. [THE EFFECTIVENESS OF RESTORATIVE JUSTICE PRACTICES: A META-ANALYSIS, 2005 Sage Publications]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Arguably, one of …during the follow-up periods, t(31) = 2.88, p < .01.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Finally, prefer meta-analyses on empirical questions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau 2000 [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” POLICIES, PROCESSES, AND DECISIONS OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM VOLUME 3. Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John.]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">There are, however, advantages to using the meta-analytic technique … in the treatment interventions they initiate.</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: J</span>

===Crime AC v2=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Political philosophy, which concerns government actions and structure, must be practical. Political actions are taken for the entire body politic, and must account for the conditions required to achieve ends.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ruled, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only utilitarianism can serve as the basis to legitimately justify policy to the public, because public policy entails trade offs the government must do what is the in the best interest of society as a whole.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moreover, virtually all public policies entail some redistribution of economic or political resources,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">perhaps at times a necessary, basis for public policy in a democracy.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the standard is minimizing harm.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Questions of criminal law are not moral, they are questions of the design of political institutions. Punishment is politically justified for utilitarian reasons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Guyora Binder [University at Buffalo Distinguished Professor of Law “Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?” BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW Vol. 5:321. 2002]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In their efforts to reform the criminal law, Beccaria ¶ and Bentham adopted the</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">¶ proceeded from using legislation to harness or enable these ¶ energies.¶ 32</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Being alive is a precondition.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION ONE IS CRIME</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint A: In the status quo the U.S. Criminal Justice System places an emphasis on retribution over rehabilitation. Penalties have increased and treatment programs have largely been phased out.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Roger K. Warren 2007 [Evidence-Based Practice to Reduce Recidivism: Implications for State Judiciaries, National Center for State Courts, for the Crime and Justice Institute and the National Institute of Corrections, August 2007]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Starting in the mid-1970s, the federal and many state governments turned to</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">lifetime more than tripled between 1974 and 2001 to 6.6%.22</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The massive increases in the prison population have made criminals more violent and created social conditions that increase crime.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">JOHN TIERNEY</span><span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2012</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [“For Lesser Crimes, Rethinking Life Behind Bars” NY Times. December 11, 2012.]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Many researchers agree that the rise in imprisonment produced some initial benefits, particularly in</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. Among black children, one in 15 have a parent in prison.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint B is that meta-analysis overwhelmingly conclude aff.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Francis Cullen and Paul Gendreau. 2000. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” Criminal Justice 2000] AT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Even if interventions are effective with a range of other behaviors, the question still</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">by Redondo, Sanchez-Meca, and Garrido (1999, 252).</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, empirically the harsh sentences imposed as a result of our adoption of retributivist dogma do not have the deterrent effect that supporters claim</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">James McGuire [[debatecoaches/home#_msocom_3|[MK3]]] 2004 [Understanding Psychology and Crime.¶ Berkshire, GBR: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004. ¶ AJ.]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The broadest, though possibly weakest, kind of evidence pertaining to this comes from</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">those who received and those who did not receive prison sentences, was followed</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint C is that crime is generally caused by “dynamic predictors”.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cullen 2. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” Criminal Justice 2000] AT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The first principle is that interventions should target the known predictors of crime and recidivism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">for intervention will produce little, if any, change in offenders’ conduct.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The fact that crime is a result of personal attitudes, not rational choices, means that it is impossible to blame people for crime. Rehabilitation is thus the best approach to target the causes of crime and is empirically a much more effective intervention than punishment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cullen 3. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” Criminal Justice 2000] AT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, the treatment services should be behavioral in nature. In general, behavioral</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">target criminogenic needs and thus are among the most ineffective interventions with offenders.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 2 MEXICO</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Uniqueness: Drug cartels are putting Mexico on the brink of collapse.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ankur Shingal 2011. [“At the Tipping Point: Why the United States Must Assist Mexico in the Mexican Drug War. Agathai Quarterly, Vol 1, Issue 2, Winter 2011 pp 27] AT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The third reason why the United States must enhance its aid to Mexico is the</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">having] a major impact on the stability of the Mexican state. 178</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Link: Targeting the addicted through treatment is uniquely key to impact the drug cartels.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Antonio Costa 2009 [“World Drug Report 2009” United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime] AT</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">One of the most efficient ways to deter traffickers would be to undermine their user</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">addicts would need be removed to substantially reduce the profitability of the market.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Mexican collapse causes massive global oil shocks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michael Moran 2009 [“Six Crises, 2009: A Half-Dozen Ways Geopolitics Could Upset Global Recovery” Roubini Global Economics, July 31, 2009]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A story receiving more attention in the American media than Iraq these days is the</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to oil fields well-beyond their peak and restrictions on foreign investment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Oil shocks cause extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Stephen Lendman 2007 (Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization. [Stephen Lendman, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?,” Rense.com, 6-6-7, pg. [[http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">With the world's energy supplies finite, the US heavily dependent on imports, and</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, or at least a big part of it, would have survived.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drug courts are very effective at reducing drug addiction. The largest study of drug courts find that they cut drug use and crime in half.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rossman et al 2011. [“Drug Courts Can Reduce Substance Use and Crime, Five-Year Study Shows, But Effectiveness Hinges on the Judge” Urban Institute, July 18, 2011. Shelli Rossman, John Roman, Janine Zweig, Janeen Buck Willison, Mitchell Downey, and Jennifer Yahner from the Urban Institute; Michael Rempel, Dana Kralstein, Mia Green, and Kelli Henry from the Center for Court Innovation; and Christine Lindquist and Kristine Fahrney from RTI International.] AT</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drug court participants who perceived the consequences of failing the program as more undesirable engaged</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">especially likely to save money, therefore, if they enroll serious offenders.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The most extensive…during courtroom proceedings.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 16px;">Crime AC v3</span>=== 

I affirm. The negative must defend that retribution ought to be valued over rehabilitation in the US Criminal Justice System. Otherwise no reciprocity or clash

Utilitarian and retributive theories of punishment are inconsistent.



Benn and Peters [S. I. BENN, Lecturer in Government University of Southampton; R. S. PETERS, Reader in Philosophy, Birkbeck College University of London. “Social Principles and the Democratic State” 1959.]

The[re] are two main …the gulf can be bridged.


Retributivists have different concerns than rehablitation

Donald A. Dripps [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003]



Whatever the trigger of blameworthiness…for the behavior.176

I value Justice.



Pragmatism should guide decision making because:

First, political philosophy should be practical



MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]

It is a fundamental feature …at the same time are also the rulers.



Second, rational thought by its nature is aimed toward finding solutions to problems posed by experience.



Frega [Equal Accessibility to All: Habermas, Pragmatism, and the Place of Religious Beliefs in a Post-Secular Society Roberto Frega Constellations Volume 19, Number 2, 2012]



A pragmatic theory of rationality provides …that is common to all the pragmatic tradition.


Consequences matter under pragmatism

Frega 2 [Equal Accessibility to All: Habermas, Pragmatism, and the Place of Religious Beliefs in a Post-Secular Society Roberto Frega Constellations Volume 19, Number 2, 2012]

A third theoretical module …freedom of religious practice and expression.


Third, only utilitarianism can serve as the basis to legitimately justify policy to the public.


Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]

Moreover, virtually all public policies entail some redistribution of…public policy in a democracy.





VC: minimizing harm

1) Being alive a precondition to other aims.

2) Retribution is incoherent. It collapses to utilitarianism.



Benn and Peters [S. I. BENN, Lecturer in Government University of Southampton; R. S. PETERS, Reader in Philosophy, Birkbeck College University of London. “Social Principles and the Democratic State” 1959.]





The retributivist refuses to…; but even so, one might still ask why we should have systems of just that sort


Contention 1: Crime is largely the result of complex social and environmental factors.

A. Poverty affects crime rates

Okeghene Odudu 2003 [Deputy Director of the Centre for European Legal Studies at Cambridge University, Herchel Smith Lecturer and British Academy Mid-Career Fellow, “Retributivist Justice in an Unjust Society” Ratio Juris Vol. 16 No. 3 September 3003 (416-31)]


“[T]hose born into the social…from a deprived background.¶

B. The retributive approach has contributed to the causes of crime.


JOHN TIERNEY 2012 [“For Lesser Crimes, Rethinking Life Behind Bars” NY Times. December 11, 2012.]



the 1970s helped inspire…in 15 have a parent in prison.



C. The impacts of crime are systemic and preventable.

Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.

The effects of recidivism in the United…cycle of criminality cannot be understated.

Thus crime harms hundreds of thousands of innocent people.

D. [C.] Research shows that violent crime is directly linked to childhood exposure to lead.


Kevin Drum 2013 [“Lead and Crime: Assessing the Evidence” Mother Jones. Tue Jan. 8, 2013.]


It's important to understand…true even at moderate levels.


In fact, childhood lead exposure explains 90% of violent crime.



Howard W. Mielkea Sammy Zahranc in August 2012 [“The urban rise and fall of air lead (Pb) and the latent surge and retreat of societal violence. August 6, 2012. US National Library of Medicine National Institutes of Health. PubMed. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22484219. AJ]



We evaluate air Pb emissions…rates of aggravated assault.

Contention 2: Only rehabilitation makes sense in light of the complex causes of criminal behavior.

A. Meta-analyses find the real causes of crime



Cullen and Gendreau. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” Criminal Justice 2000] AT



The first principle is that…change in offenders’ conduct.

B. Only rehabilitation can work because it targets these causes



Cullen 2. [“Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects.” Criminal Justice 2000] AT

Second, the treatment services…ineffective interventions with offenders.



C. Meta-analyses prove that rehabilitation techniques are effective at reducing recidivism.

Cullen 3:

Even if interventions are…Meca, and Garrido (1999, 252).

Prefer meta analyses

D. Fundamental attribution error

Fundamental attribution error affects perceptions of crime



Dripps 3:



Psychological research indicates…turns out to be wrong.

FAE makes retributivism unworkable.



Dripps 4:



FAE has troubling implications for the…to mandatory retributivism’s prescriptions.


===Rights AC (TOC Rounds 1, 5)=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I affirm.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Retributivism only values consequences secondarily. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Charles K.B. Barton 1999. “Getting Even: Revenge as a Form of Justice.” Open Court Publishing. 1999. Questia. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Another crucial point … the next section.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1) Debatability </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2) Argument comparison </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: M </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The “normative structure of action” provides the basis for constructing a supreme moral principle.. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Alan Gewirth [Prof. Of Philosophy, University of Chicago. Reason and Morality. University of Chicago Press. 1978.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">How do the … principle of morality. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Agents must hold the conditions for their actions to be good and that other agents have rights or contradict their view that their purposes are valuable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Alan Gewirth. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“THE ONTOLOGICAL BASIS OF NATURAL LAW: A CRITIQUE AND AN ALTERNATIVE.” 29 American Journal of Jurisprudence. 95. 1984. HeinOnline. DT.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Let me briefly … features and rights of action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Any legal system must thus protect agents’ rights to freedom and well-being since the rights justify and exist before the state. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Alan Gewirth [Prof. Of Philosophy, University of Chicago. Reason and Morality. University of Chicago Press. 1978.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The persons addressed … in purposive action. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">VC: respect for the generic rights to freedom and well-being. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I advocate that the U.S. recognize rehabilitation as a right. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Edgardo Rotman 1. Harvard Law School. “DO CRIMINAL OFFENDERS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO REHABILITATION?”, THE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW & CRIMINOLOGY Vol. 77, No. 4, 1986.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The humanistic model … of social reintegration.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A rights-based approach to rehabilitation is different than older treatment models.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sam Lewis [University of Leeds “Rehabilitation: Headline or footnote in the new penal policy?” Probation Journal 2005 52: 119]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The central tenets … (McWilliams and Rease, 1990: 15).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SUBPOINT A: SOCIAL DEPRIVATION</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Complex factors in certain environments, such as growing up in extreme poverty, can create cognitive frameworks that lead people to commit crime. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ronald L. Simons and Callie Harbin Burt [Ronald L. Simons, Department of Sociology, University of Georgia. Callie Harbin Burt, University of Massachusetts. "LEARNING TO BE BAD: ADVERSE SOCIAL CONDITIONS, SOCIAL SCHEMAS, AND CRIME." 2011]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">We argued that … social conventions than females.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rehab is the only paradigm that recognizes inmates’ social deprivation, so it’s the only way to obligate the state to respect the offender’s rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cullen and Gilbert 13 [Cullen, Francis T. Gilbert, Karen E. Reaffirming Rehabilitation. 2nd edition 2013]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rehabilitation</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> is the …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">this social sanction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SUBPOINT B: INCARCERATION</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Instead of addressing the root causes of crime, we have added insult to injury by embarking on a retributive program of mass incarceration.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">John Haley [Orthwein Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus, Washington University in St. Louis and Professor of Law, Vanderbilt University Law School.] “Introduction—Beyond Retribution: An Integrated Approach to Restorative Justice”, 36 Wash. U. J. L. & Pol’y 1. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Today </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">over two million </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">… be rationally evaluated?</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Retribution is a direct violation of the state obligation to protect rights since it dooms entire communities to crime and poverty. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Blake Emerson. “Criminal Justice and the Ideology of Individual Responsibility”, Chapter 3 in Race, Crime, and Punishment. The Aspen Institute 2011. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">When we contemplate … welfare is a public concern. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The additional harmful effects of incarceration constitute extra-legal punishment, which require rehab to mitigate.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Edgardo Rotman 2 [A Reader on Punishment. Anthony Duff and David Garland. “Beyond Punishment: A New View on the Rehabilitation of Criminal Offenders.” 1994].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The prinicple nulla poena, … prevent and counteract such abuses. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, rehab is the only way to compensate for prison horrors. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rotman 3 [ Harvard Law School. “DO CRIMINAL OFFENDERS HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO REHABILITATION?”, THE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW & CRIMINOLOGY Vol. 77, No. 4, 1986.]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The denial of rehabilitation … extremely socially-deprived offender</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


===Drug War AC (TOC Round 3)=== 
FIRST: TOPICAL INTERP
Retributivism is a theory of proportional punishment.

Lessnoff, Michael. Two Justifications of Punishment. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336.

By 'the retributive…undesirable or bad acts.2
Rehab is an approach to sentencing, so the resolution questions real world policies. Prefer:


1) Real World Education: Just desert paradigms empirically result in real world policies.
Andrews and Bonta 2010 [D. A. Andrews, Carleton University; James Bonta, Public Safety Canada. “REHABILITATING CRIMINAL JUSTICE POLICY AND PRACTICE.” Psychology, Public Policy, and Law 2010, Vol. 16, No. 1, 39–55.]

In the 1970s, the “get tough”…Finckenauer, 2000; Renzema & MayoWilson, 2005).
Additional reasons are analytic
NEXT: FRAMEWORK
Governments must be practical and publicly justifiable.

MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]
It is a fundamental feature of political…at the same time are also the rulers.

Only util is consistent.

The standard is minimizing harm. Also prefer the standard because:

1. No Act omission distinction <span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif;">→</span> util

2. Life is a prerequisite
3. Proportionality standards concede consequentialism
4. Punishment justified for util reasons
Guyora Binder [University at Buffalo Distinguished Professor of Law “Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?” BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW Vol. 5:321. 2002]
In their efforts to reform the criminal law…harness or enable these ¶ energies.¶ 32



NEXT: ADVOCACY
Drug war justified by retribution
Eric Sterling 2004 [(President, Criminal Justice Policy Foundation) Drug Policy: A Challenge of Values CRIMINAL JUSTICE: RETRIBUTION VS. RESTORATION] AT
The drug user has a mixed image: sympathetically…going to kill you,” he said (Abrams, 1997).
Mandatory minimums are retributivist
Eric Luna and Paul G. Cassell, Mandatory Minimalism, 32 Cardozo L. Rev. 1 (2010).
Mandatory minimums allegedly serve the theoretical…these violent offenders.
PLAN: I advocate drug treatment for offenders in conjunction with drug abuse sentencing changes to lower the prison population.
McVay et al 2004 [“Treatment or Incarceration?” Doug McVay (Director, Common Sense for Drug Policy), Vincent Schiraldi, and Jason Ziedenber (Executive Director and Director of Policy and Research of the Justice Policy Institute, respectively) Justice Policy Institute March 24th, 2004] AT
Research by the US Justice Department…programs funded by the ADAA.
He continues:
Treatment in this context…child care and transportation.
Contention 1 is terrorism.
A) Uniqueness: Terrorism continues to be a global threat.
Council of Foreign Relations April 24 [“The Global Regime for Terrorism” Council on Foreign Relations April 24, 2013] AT
In recent years, terrorist networks have evolved…contribute to the spread of terrorism.
B) US drives international drug trade
UN Office on Drugs and Crime [ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF DRUG ABUSE AND ILLICIT TRAFFICKING. No 6 UN office on drugs and crime] AT
The largest single consumer…marginally higher in Europe than in the United States.
C) Drug trafficking funds terrorism.
Kleiman 2004 [(Mark, Contractor, Domestic Social Policy Division) “Illicit Drugs and the Terrorist Threat: Causal Links and Implications for Domestic Drug Control Policy” CRS Report for Congress, April 20 2004] AT
The international traffic in illicit…vigorous enforcement efforts.


D) Impact: Terrorism causes extinction.
Morgan 2009 [(Dennis, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus) South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693.]
Moore points out what most terrorists obviously…and suffering in a nuclear winter.
Contention 2 is the retribution fails.
Treatment solves squo problems
US Department of Health and Human Services. [“Addiction and Criminal Justice System” Research Online Reporting Tools] AT
More and better treatment is…months after release.
Drug war creates additional harms
Rolles et al 2012 [Steve Rolles, George Murkin, Martin Powell, Danny Kushlick, Jane Slater “Wasting Billions and Undermining Economies” part of The Alternative World Drug Report, Count the Costs initiative] AT
The illicit drug trade is extremely…security brieﬁng for more information).

Contention 3 is the solvency.
Treatment is key to reducing terrorism
Kleiman 2
Reducing demand for illicit…trafficking to the terrorist threat.
Drug treatment solves – meta analysis
Holloway et al 2006 [“The effectiveness of drug treatment programs in reducing criminal behavior: A meta-analysis” Katy R. Holloway, Trevor H. Bennett and David P. Farrington* University of Glamorgan and * University of Cambridge Psicothema 2006. Vol. 18, no 3, pp. 620-629] AT
The results of the analysis showed…either FE or RE methods.
Contention 4 is collateral damage.
Subpoint A is the impacts.
Mass incarceration inflicts severe suffering
David Gray and Jonathan Huber 2010 explain Whitman’s argument [Retributivism for Progressives: A Response to Professor Flander” Maryland Law Review Vol 70, Issue 1, Dec 2010] AT
The population of persons incarcerated in the United…retributivism as a theory of criminal justice.

These laws justify mandatory minimums
Nicole Flatow 13 [(Deputy Editor of ThinkProgress Justice. Previously, she was Associate Director of Communications for the American Constitution Society) “Almost Half Of Federal Prisoners Held For Drug Crimes” Think Progress Jan 2, 2013] AT
Although the overall U.S. prison population declined…item after Medicaid.

Mass incarceration increases crime
Hannon and Defina 2012 [“Sowing the Seeds: How Adult Incarceration Promotes Juvenile Delinquency” Crime, Law and Social Change Volume 57, Issue 5 , pp 475-491] AT
Concentrated Imprisonment’s Impact on Families…collateral consequences of mass imprisonment.
And, it’s empirically confirmed
Hannon and Defina 2
The empirical estimates provide…increasing relative to adult arrests.

Cullen et al. provide further empirical support.
Cullen et al 11 [“Prisons Do Not Reduce Recidivism : The High Cost of Ignoring Science” Francis T. Cullen, Cheryl Lero Jonson and Daniel S. Nagin The Prison Journal 2011 91: 48S originally published online 19 July 2011] AT
Second, Cassia Spohn and David Holleran (2002)…those placed on probation.

UNDERVIEW:

First, the neg must value retribution over rehab in the criminal justice system.


Second, the negative may not challenge the affirmative theoretical framework. Framework refers to the ability of the affirmative to specify a plan, make it sufficient to affirm, and fiat its implementation.

O’Donnell [Timothy, Director of Debate University of Mary Washington “And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” WFU Debater's Research Guide 2004]

Second, AFC ensures competitive equity. Leaving…half the time.



==Negative== 


===Util NC=== 

V: J



Rights should be rules for the treatment of others that maximize good consequences in a society.


<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">JAMES PLUNKETT ALLAN </span>[“Scepticism, Rights and Utility” Ratio Juris. Vol. 11 No. 4 December 1998 (413–24)]

However, deficiencies in…immediate (or short-term) failings.


S: establishing rights and rules that maximize well-being.


Only guilty can be punished – necessary to serve function of CJS within society.


<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">John Rawls </span>[“Two Concepts of Rules” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 1 (Jan., 1955), pp. 3-32]

Try to imagine, then, an…has agreed to buy it."4


However, making rehabilitation the guiding principle of the justice system would create a line-drawing problem.

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">K. G. Armstrong</span> [Oxford University “The Retributivist Hits Back” Mind, New Series, Vol. 70, No. 280. (Oct., 1961), pp. 471-490]

What of the other charges against…authorities (or their experts) want him to be.

The only way to avoid this outcome is to reconcile the retributivist and utilitarian justification by valuing retributivism as the primary constraint.

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Rawls 2:</span>


For our purposes we may say…up the criminal law.5

Thus, I negate.


===Fair Play NC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I negate. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: J </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Society is a cooperative endeavor that requires mutual submission to shared rules to function. Submission to rules creates an obligation on others who benefit to ensure burdens in society are shared according to what they are due.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard Dagger “Punishment as Fair Play.” Res Publica (2008) 14:259–275. DT. “That is why…</span> when his turn comes’ (Murphy 1971, p. 166).2.”

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">However, absent a mechanism to incentivize rule following this system of benefits and burdens is unstable because it would encourage free-riding. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Dagger [Professor of Political Science at Arizona State University “Playing Fair with Punishment” Ethics, Vol. 103, No. 3 (Apr., 1993), pp. 473-488]. "There are, however, …when his ¶ turn comes."6 ¶"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">S: Restoring the equilibrium of benefits and burdens in society. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The fair-play theory of benefits and burdens justifies a retributive theory of justice.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Dagger [Professor of Political Science at Arizona State University “Playing Fair with Punishment” Ethics, Vol. 103, No. 3 (Apr., 1993), pp. 473-488]. "The problem is … a justification for punishment."</span>

===Fair Play NC v2 (TOC neg rounds)=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">V: J</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The resolution asks why we ought to punish, not what kind of punishment we should enforce. Retribution does not specify any particular set of policies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gerard V. Bradley </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003. RETRIBUTION: THE CENTRAL AIM OF PUNISHMENT Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy; Fall 2003; 27, 1; ProQuest Research Library. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">Fourth,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;"> retribution is…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">dictated, by reason."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Society is an endeavor meant to structure cooperation in ways that guide people to treat others fairly. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gerard V. Bradley </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003. RETRIBUTION: THE CENTRAL AIM OF PUNISHMENT Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy; Fall 2003; 27, 1; ProQuest Research Library. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">In the absence … treat others fairly."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It follows that crimes are wrong not because any particular individual is harmed but because the criminal acts unfairly towards society as a whole.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gerard V. Bradley </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003. RETRIBUTION: THE CENTRAL AIM OF PUNISHMENT Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy; Fall 2003; 27, 1; ProQuest Research Library. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">An important conclusion … pattern of restraint."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the purpose of punishment should be to deprive the criminal of the unfair advantage he or she has gained.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gerard V. Bradley </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003. RETRIBUTION: THE CENTRAL AIM OF PUNISHMENT Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy; Fall 2003; 27, 1; ProQuest Research Library. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">Depriving the criminal … fairness and equality."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only retribution meets this aim of punishment because it ties punishment to guilt as opposed to the needs of the criminal or other societal benefits.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gerard V. Bradley </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2003. RETRIBUTION: THE CENTRAL AIM OF PUNISHMENT Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy; Fall 2003; 27, 1; ProQuest Research Library. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">In fact,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;"> all </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">alternative </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">… disrupted are futile."</span>

===Prisoners Rights CP (TOC Semifinals)=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The current despicable state of the justice system in the U.S. is not the result of any theory of punishment, but rather the failure of theorists to connect their theories to practice. Punishment theories have kept practical application at arms length and thereby allowed those driven by vengeful human instincts to implement policies in their name. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Chad Flanders 2012 [Assistant Professor of Law, Saint Louis University School of Law “Retribution and Reform” MARYLAND LAW REVIEW. Vol. 70. 10-26-2012]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The lack of contact between theory and practice …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> of American¶ punishment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, I will argue for a theory of retributivism that is concerned with practical applications and aimed at ending the racism and oppression of our current justice system.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In order to solve mass incarceration, inequality, and deplorable prison conditions, we need a theory of prisoner rights. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">RICHARD LIPPKE [Senior Scholar in Criminal Justice, University of Indiana “Toward a Theory of Prisoners’ Rights” Ratio Juris. Vol. 15 No. 2 June 2002 (122–45)]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">For the past … the larger project.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I advocate a model of prisoner rights justified by the retributive aim of punishment. Offenders will retain all of the rights of non-offenders except for limitations on their civic freedom necessitated by the act of punishment. Incarceration will only occur for severe crimes. Retributive punishment when connected to the rights of prisoners demands an end to over-incarceration. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">LIPPKE 2:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The retributive approach …of civil society.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, a rights approach justified by retribution solves better than other models, including Rotman’s right to rehabilitation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">LIPPKE 3:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">It is possible … waves of duty.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moreover, retribution is the only theory that restricts human emotions and tendency towards harshness. It is about mildness and restraint. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Chad Flanders 2012 [Assistant Professor of Law, Saint Louis University School of Law “Retribution and Reform” MARYLAND LAW REVIEW. Vol. 70. 10-26-2012]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Is that it? Do all versions of retributivism have this mistaken orientation? …rather than finding the good that may be realized by punishment.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">T - Aim of Punishment</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A.</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Interpretation: The affirmative must value rehabilitation above retribution in the criminal justice system in terms of the aim of punishment as opposed to the implementation or repeal of particular policies.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Violation:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Limits.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Donald A. Dripps [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003]. “Retributive theory, which…exceeding the costs.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter: Fairness</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">T - Aim of Punishment v2 </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A. Interpretation: The affirmative must value rehabilitation above retribution in the criminal justice system as a whole in terms of the aim of punishment as opposed to the implementation or repeal specific policies that change the focus of a particular treatment or law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">B. Violation: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C. Standards: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Limits: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">a] Ground Limits</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">b] Aim v Procedure</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Donald A. Dripps [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003]. DT. “Retributive theory, which…exceeding the costs.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michael Cahill. Retributive Justice in the Real World. Washington University Law Review, Vol. 85, p. 815, 2007; Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Paper No. 77. pp 817-818. DT. “Utilitarianism, which bases…known or stipulated.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter: Fairness</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">T - Aim of Punishment v3</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation: The affirmative must value rehabilitation above retribution in the criminal justice system in terms of the aim of punishment as opposed to the implementation or repeal of particular policies.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Violation:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards:</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Limits: </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A] Aff warps the way paradigms of punishment work. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Donald A. Dripps 2003 [James Annenberg Levee Professor of Law and Criminal Procedure, University of Minnesota Law School. “Fundamental Retribution Error: Criminal Justice and the Social Psychology of Blame.” VANDERBILT LAW REVIEW. Vol. 56. 2003]. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">Retributive theory, which … exceeding the costs."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B] Characterizing retributive punishment as “harsh” fundamentally misunderstands the philosophy. Retribution just specifies //why// we punish, not how we punish. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Leo Zaibert 2006 “Punishment And Retribution (Law, Justice and Power).” Ashgate Publishing Company. March 2006. [Philosophy Professor at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside]. DT. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;">I would like …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 1.5;"> these political agendas."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter: Fairness </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Drop the debater. </span>