[[toc]]
=New Trier 1AC= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Contention One is Terrorism:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">We are a target for terrorism – detonation of a radiological weapon on a U.S. port causes every conceivable impact and leads to military retaliation – current protection is insufficient</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Glauser 11</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, [[https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> I don’t believe there is a debate that… before the terrorists can act on their WMD threats.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">And, shipping cargo containers are the most probable scenario for a nuclear attack</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Nadler, Markey, and Thompson 12</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Jerrold L., Edward J., and Bennie G., Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. Jerrold L. Nadler is a member of the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, New York Times Op-Ed, New York Times.com, 6-26-2012,[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html?_r=1]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… on the tip of a missile.”</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">The resulting military retaliation would cause massive nuclear weapons annihilating the Muslim world, as well as attacks against North Korea and China.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Pfriender 6</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Robert is the founder and president of Allied International Development, Ltd., a privately held real estate development and construction management firm located on Long Island, N.Y., “Doomsday for Islam?,” 03/28/2006,[[http://www.wnd.com/2006/03/35443/]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> A terror nuke attack upon… President Bush’s initiative to attack Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">And, a WMD attack on a U.S. port would results in trillions of dollars in damages – offshore ports key</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> The implementation of the Portunus Project… government research and consulting firm (Abt Associates, 2003).</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Crushes the U.S. and global economy via a devastating multiplier effect</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck __[[#|School of Business]]__ 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Portunus has significant value… University of Southern California (Gordon, Richardson, & Pan, 2005).</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">And, economic decline causes war - multiple reasons</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Royal 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">— Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline… should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Contention Two is Humyn Trafficking:</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Thousands of people are trafficked into the U.S. each year – its stealthy nature allows traffickers to slip under national radars</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">International Affairs 8</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“Current Human Trafficking Crisis,” May 27, 2008 [[http://suite101.com/article/current-human-trafficking-crisis-a55152]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">Millions of people every year are the victims of human trafficking… at any given time at 12.3 million.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">And, humyn and sex trafficking cases are increasing at an alarming rate - girls arrive in cargo containers at southern ports</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Defender Foundation No Date Given</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Problem,” [[http://thedefenderfoundation.org/?page_id=192]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">These cases, of course, were US minors… because no one is even sure a crime has been committed.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Trafficking denies the most basic freedoms and the resulting exploitation, humiliation, rape, and violence destroy their sense of self and will to live – the victims become psychologically shatteredHopper and Hidalgo 6</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Elizabeth, Ph.D psychologist at the Trauma Center in Boston, Jose, program director of Project REACH at the Trauma Center in Boston, INVISIBLE CHAINS: PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIMS, Intercultural Human Rights Law Review, 1 Intercultural Hum. Rts. L. Rev. 185, 2006, l/n]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">We disagree with the author’s use of gendered language</span>//</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">During the course of trafficking… physically, emotionally, and spiritually shattered</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Every invasion of freedom must be rejected</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Petro 74</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">(Sylvester, Wake Forest Professor in Toledo Law Review, Spring 1974, pg. 480)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> However, one may still insist… resisted with undying spirit.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the initial development of offshore security ports through public-private sector partnerships.</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Contention Three is Solvency:</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Offshore ports are comparatively better than current programs – they provide the highest level of security by searching 100% of cargo containers</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">with new, state of the art technology, before they enter the U.S. mainland – if a nuke enters one of our ports, it’s already too late.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Automated Storage & Retrieval Systems, LTD 6</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“Can Do!,” Vol. VII, Art. 15, April-June, 2006, [[http://www.automatedsystemsltd.com/vol7/article_2006_05_4_0804.html]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> “CSI is perhaps best characterized… the territory of the United States.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">100% offshore port inspections are more effective than alternative security upgrades</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">["The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Portunus will improve US maritime security… WMD travelling by container ship.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Offshore ports offer the best line of defense against a terrorist attack</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Glauser 11</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Hank, “Seaborne Delivery Interdiction of Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),” April 4, 2011, [[https://e-reports-ext.llnl.gov/pdf/471897.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> The greatest advantage of this concept… due to the potential of discovery and interdiction.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Portunus improves maritime security – identifies all stowaways and improves interdiction capabilities</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility,” 2010]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Portunus will improve maritime border security… USN vessels docked at Portunus.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Other countries will model the U.S. and adopt offshore ports</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">McMillan et al 2</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Cliff, VP for Business Development at Float Inc., “Implementing The Beyond the Horizon Strategy,” September 17, 2002, [[http://www.floatinc.org/BtHSep02.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Not unlike FedEx's efficient nationwide delivery… hubs before flying on to another city.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Public-private partnerships solve best and federal government key – multiple reasons – prefer our evidence – it’s specific to offshore ports</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Hillyard 5</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[Dr. Michael J., Rockwell University, The Atlantis Garrison: A Comprehensive, Cost Effective Cargo and Port Security Strategy, Strategic Insights, Volume IV, Issue 4 (April 2005), [[http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/publications/OnlineJournal/2005/Apr/hillyardapr05.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> A federal oversight and private delivery model… “that our intelligence agencies work as a single, unified enterprise.”[ 30]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Public ownership and private operation ensure efficient and inexpensive construction and operation – A Dutch auction process will be used for private sector firms to bid on ports - security controls remain under the USG</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Public ownership and private operation provide… we discuss this in greater detail in Section VII.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Privates alone fail – causes declines in participation or increased costs – only the plan solves</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tuck School of Business 10</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;">[“The Portunus Project An Assessment of the Project’s Economic, Business, and Operational Feasibility”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: left;"> Public ownership and private operation also ensures… certain to drive interest to participate.</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]