[[toc]]
= = 
=Affirmative= 
===1AC - Wake Forest Early Bird=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Transportation Apartheid</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Transportation isn’t neutral but is embedded in discursive and ideological systems – the fetishism of economically productive modes of mobility reflects dominant power structures.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Konrad ’9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[2009, Miriam, PhD in sociology from Georgia State University, “Transporting Atlanta”, State Universty of New York Press, Albany, p. 1-2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It is ... of mobility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Brenman ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Three major .. regressive taxes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Status quo transportation policy relies on a white supremacist framework, thus providing disproportionate benefits to wealthy, well educated, white males.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bullard ‘2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Robert D.-; TRANSPORTATION EQUITY IN THE 21ST CENTURY: A Newsletter of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University”; Volume 1, Number 1; Spring, 2000;] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Procedural Inequity. .. economic activities.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is Language</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rhetorical silence in transportation policy protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves material white privilege. Ideological systems are made up of both presences and absences. What is absent, unmarked, the UNSPOKEN, the UNSAYABLE becomes positively marked as the ASSUMED NORM.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This analysis .. about whiteness.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current policy making reflects the assumptions and worldview of the white male power base, ignoring and disadvantaging minority voices.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shaw ‘4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State ‘4</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The methods ..of power"(1997a, p. 3)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ideologies shape our understanding of social existence. Addressing racism with a preexisting lens of analysis points us in predetermined directions and prevents an intersectional approach.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stuart Hall's .. class discourses.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 3 is Debate</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thus the focus of this debate: “The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.”</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">We advocate a deconstruction of the resolution through the discourse of the 1AC. Rather than affirming the resolution with a specified ideology we seek to break down ideological binaries to expose class structure and hierarchies. This is a prerequisite to equitable transportation policymaking.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">‘Resolved’ means contemplation – the resolution reveals itself to us through deconstruction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Pezze ‘6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2006, Barbara Pezze – PhD philosophy at Hong Kong University, “Heidegger on Gelassenheit”,</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Let us .. Gelassenheit]. (Heidegger 1966a, p. 81)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current transportation policy is concerned with renewal of old policies that enables us to skirt a question of institutional racism. Racial justice should be at the center of our transportation policy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">JCPES 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Given the .. lasting equity</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The disconnected objective narration of debate is harmful: Modern epistemic norms are sown with bias towards upper class white males beneath supposed “neutrality”.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stone-Mediatore ‘10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Dpt. Philosophy, Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shari-; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45, 2010; </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">For several .. “not academically-oriented.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system in education – exposing it leads to the best form of knowledge production.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Mills ’97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Charles Mills, Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago. He is author of blackness visible: Essays on philosophy and race, also from Cornell. Cornell University Press, “The Racial Contract”, 1997, Page(s) 1-2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">White supremacy .. are highlighted.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">We must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct, and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Because discursive .. this one.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The process of deconstruction doesn’t end with this speech. The clash in this debate will represent a constant movement of questioning. Affirming a single policy option stops further criticism – only deconstruction can constantly overturn hierarchies.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Spivak ‘97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [an Indian theorist, philosopher and University Professor at Columbia University, where she is a founding member of the school's Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, “Jacques Derrida OF GRAMMATOLOGY” Translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Speaking of .. be ignored.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deconstruction breaks down ideologies at their foundations exposing the conditions which allow them to exist.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Phillips No Date</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [John Phillips, Derrida and Deconstruction, Associate Professor In The Department of English Language and Literature, U of Singapore]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deconstruction is ..dogmatic thought. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The role of the ballot should be toward the team that best solves racism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Barndt ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Joseph R,[Antiracist pastor, former director of Crossroads, Critical race author from 1968-present], “Understanding and Dismantling Racism: The Twenty-First Century Challenge to White America”, Fortress Press, 2009, eISBN : 97-8-080-06622-2, p.113</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Thus far, ..own prison.</span>

===1AC - Glenbrooks=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Transportation Apartheid </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Brenman ‘7** [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Three major .. regressive taxes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are planned poorly when it comes to people of color</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4** [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation systems do… has been created.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is Language</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Rhetorical silence in transportation policy protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves material white privilege. Ideological systems are made up of both presences and absences. What is absent, unmarked, the UNSPOKEN, the UNSAYABLE becomes positively marked as the ASSUMED NORM.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Dr. Crenshaw ‘97** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This analysis .. about whiteness.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Current policy making reflects the assumptions and worldview of the white male power base, ignoring and disadvantaging minority voices.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Shaw ‘4** [Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The methods ..of power"(1997a, p. 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Ideologies shape our understanding of social existence. Addressing racism with a preexisting lens of analysis points us in predetermined directions and prevents an intersectional approach.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Dr. Crenshaw ‘97** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stuart Hall's .. class discourses.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Contention 3 is Debate</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Thus the focus of this debate: “The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in racially just transportation infrastructure in the United States.”**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **We are a deconstruction of the resolution. Rather than affirming the resolution with a specified ideology we seek to break down ideological binaries to expose class structure and hierarchies. This is a prerequisite to equitable transportation policymaking.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **‘Resolved’ means contemplation – the resolution reveals itself to us through deconstruction.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Pezze ‘6** [2006, Barbara Pezze – PhD philosophy at Hong Kong University, “Heidegger on Gelassenheit”,</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Let us .. Gelassenheit]. (Heidegger 1966a, p. 81)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **The disconnected objective narration of debate is harmful: Modern epistemic norms are sown with bias towards upper class white males beneath supposed “neutrality”.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Stone-Mediatore ‘10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shari-; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45, 2010; </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">For several .. “not academically-oriented.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **White supremacy is the unnamed political system in education – exposing it leads to the best form of knowledge production.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Mills ’97** [Charles Mills, Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago. He is author of blackness visible: Essays on philosophy and race, also from Cornell. Cornell University Press, “The Racial Contract”, 1997, Page(s) 1-2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">White supremacy .. are highlighted.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **We must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct, and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Dr. Crenshaw ‘97** Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Because discursive .. this one.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **The process of deconstruction doesn’t end with this speech. The clash in this debate will represent a constant movement of questioning. Affirming a single policy option stops further criticism – only deconstruction can constantly overturn hierarchies.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Spivak ‘97** [an Indian theorist, philosopher and University Professor at Columbia University, where she is a founding member of the school's Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, “Jacques Derrida OF GRAMMATOLOGY” Translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Speaking of .. be ignored.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Deconstruction breaks down ideologies at their foundations exposing the conditions which allow them to exist.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **Phillips No Date** [John Phillips, Derrida and Deconstruction, Associate Professor In The Department of English Language and Literature, U of Singapore]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deconstruction is ..dogmatic thought. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **The role of the ballot should be towards the team that best solves racism**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current transportation policy is concerned with renewal of old policies that enables us to skirt a question of institutional racism. Racial justice should be at the center of our transportation policy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **JCPES 11** [The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Given the .. lasting equity.</span>


===1AC - Montgomery Bell=== 
====Contention 1 is Transportation Apartheid==== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Brenman ‘7</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Three major .. regressive taxes.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">The choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are planned poorly when it comes to people of color</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation systems do… has been created.</span>

====Contention 2 is Language==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Rhetorical silence in transportation policy protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves material white privilege. Ideological systems are made up of both presences and absences. What is absent, unmarked, the UNSPOKEN, the UNSAYABLE becomes positively marked as the ASSUMED NORM.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This analysis .. about whiteness.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Current policy making reflects the assumptions and worldview of the white male power base, ignoring and disadvantaging minority voices.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Shaw ‘4</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Katharine, Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The methods ..of power"(1997a, p. 3)</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ideologies shape our understanding of social existence. Addressing racism with a preexisting lens of analysis points us in predetermined directions and prevents an intersectional approach.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stuart Hall's .. class discourses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">An exposition of language breaks down linguistic binaries that shape policy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hubbard ‘10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Edward Akintola Hubbard, Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University “ANTHRO 1795: LANGUAGE AND POLITICS IN LATIN AMERICA NOTES ON DECONSTRUCTION: CLAUDE LEVI STRAUSS’S “A WRITING LESSON” AND JACQUES DERRIDA’S OF GRAMMATOLOGY” PG. 1-3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is no …is no excuse.”</span>

====Contention 3 is Debate==== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the focus of this debate: “The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in racially just transportation infrastructure in the United States.”</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are a deconstruction of the resolution. Rather than affirming the resolution with a specified ideology we break down ideological binaries to expose class structure and hierarchies. This is a prerequisite to equitable transportation policymaking.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Systemic impacts should be evaluated first. Value-neutral impact analysis cannot account for the day to day impact of racism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mohan ’93</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Professor at LSU (Brij, “Eclipse Of Freedom,” p. 3-4)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The ordeal … human condition.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prioritize racial discrimination in the face of utility calculus – attempts at neutrality are not race neutral and annihilate individual rights</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Byrnes, ’99**[Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A functionalist … every time. 296</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system in education – exposing it leads to the best form of knowledge production.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Mills ’97</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Charles Mills, Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago. He is author of blackness visible: Essays on philosophy and race, also from Cornell. Cornell University Press, “The Racial Contract”, 1997, Page(s) 1-2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">White supremacy .. are highlighted.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">We must locate interactions and discursive spaces that implicate race and invoke the power of whiteness and investigate intersections with gender and class. This is our job as rhetoricians that engage in the activity of debate and our work as scholars that produce, construct, and disseminate knowledge in the intellectual debate community.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Because discursive .. this one.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The process of deconstruction doesn’t end with this speech. The clash in this debate will represent a constant movement of questioning. Affirming a single policy option stops further criticism – only deconstruction can constantly overturn hierarchies.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Spivak ‘97</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[an Indian theorist, philosopher and University Professor at Columbia University, where she is a founding member of the school's Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, “Jacques Derrida OF GRAMMATOLOGY” Translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Speaking of .. be ignored.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deconstruction breaks down ideologies at their foundations exposing the conditions which allow them to exist.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="background-color: white;">Phillips No Date</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Phillips, Derrida and Deconstruction, Associate Professor In The Department of English Language and Literature, U of Singapore]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deconstruction is ..dogmatic thought.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The role of the ballot should be towards the team that best solves racism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Current transportation policy is concerned with renewal of old policies that enables us to skirt a question of institutional racism. Racial justice should be at the center of our transportation policy.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="background-color: white;">JCPES 11</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Given the .. lasting equity.</span>
=== === 
===2AC - Framework=== 

**Engaging in a criticism of the resolution reveals how public political rhetoric relies on white privilege**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dr. Crenshaw ‘97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ideological rhetorical .. </span>status (van Dijk; Wellman).

**Debaters determine the role of the resolution and how debate is structured not the other way around**
**Phillips No Date** [John Phillips, Derrida and Deconstruction, Associate Professor In The Department of English Language and Literature, U of Singapore,]

Structure <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The .. </span>a paradox..

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turn: DEBATE either gets on board with a FANATICAL APPROACH that recognizes the pluralistic nature of its community or risk EXTINCTION of its relevance.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Valdivia-Sutherland ‘98 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Cynthia-Celebrating Differences: Successfully Diversifying Forensics Programs; National Communication Association’s 84th Annual Meeting, November 22; [[http://www.phirhopi.org/phi-rho-pi/spts/spkrpts05.2/sutherland.htm]], A Multicultural Communicative Style]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Although the foundation of forensics … celebration of differences begin!</span>

**The Resolution cannot be abandoned but should serve as an invitation to dialogue that can preserve a balance between the "clash of civilizations" now occuring within debate**
**Galloway '7** [Ryan-former GMU debater; Dinner and Conversation at the Argumentative Table: Reconceptualizing Debate as an Argumentative Dialogue; CONTEMPORARY ARGUMENTATION AND DEBATE]

By definition ... a dialogue construct.

===2AC - Anthropocentrism=== 
**Strategic colorblindness and avoiding a discussion of race is an instrument of oppression used to prevent the appearance of bias**
**Apfelbaum et. al '8** [Evan P.-, Samuel R.- & Michael I.-; Seeing Race & Seeming Racist? Evaluating Strategic Colorblindness in Social Interaction; JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PYSCHOLOGY; Vol. 95, No. 4; copyrighted by the American Psychological Association;]

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">As this .. interpersonal outcomes. </span>

===2AC - Capitalism=== 
**Perm: endorse a critical examination of capitalism through the framework of the aff**
**West '88** [Honorary chair of the Democratic Socialist of America Cornell-prof @Princeton University, DSA National Politicall Committee and a member of its African American Commission; “Toward a Socialist Theory of Racism”; RACE & ETHNICITY ESERV; (year of publication found on Dr. West’s website: Socialism and Antiracism: Two Inseparable Yet Not Identical Goals]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It should .. the tide</span>

==== ==== 
===1AC - Harvard Double Octos=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation is a tool of social policy, removal, and repression that reverberates into the present as black people have moved from actual shackles on slave ships to economic shackles of transportation policy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brenman ‘7</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> [2007, Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil righ</span>ts at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, [[http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE U.S. SOCIETY REMAINS A RACIST SYSTEM, and though the ideals that give it legitimacy can be used by antiracist struggles to bring about its demise, no large-scale action has been taken to re-build this system of racism from the foundation up. This white supremacist framework has successfully incorporated “other Americans” of color.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Feagin 2k</span>** President of the American Sociological Association <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Joe-Prof of Sociology, Univ. of Fla. Gainesville; “RACIST AMERICA: Roots, Current Realities and Future Reparations”; 235-236.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CIVIL SOCIETY MAPS ITSELF BY THE RECONFIGURATION OF RIGHTS THROUGH FREEDOM – maintaining its position of ANTI-BLACKNESS. This constructs America’s benevolent hegemony of coherence. What is needed is the radical injection of society’s incoherence, the ‘wretched of the earth’ the politics of the black body with a gesture towards the disconfiguration of civil society.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wilderson ‘3 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">professor of African American Studies at University of California, Irvine, 2003 (Frank, A. B. Dartmouth College (Government/Philosophy); MFA Columbia University (Fiction Writing); Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley (Rhetoric/Film Studies), “The Prison Slave as Hegemony's (Silent) Scandal”, Social Justice, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p18-27) blh</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">DISSENT AND DEBATE DEPEND ON SOCIAL CRITICISM. SHAMING MEASURES REGULATE THE VIABLE SPEAKING SUBJECT. WE MUST BRAVE THE STIGMA ASSOCIATED WITH DISIDENTIFICATION.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Butler ‘4</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> [2004, Judith Butler is a Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at U.C. Berkeley, “Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence”, pg. xix-xxi]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE CRISIS OF WITNESSING puts the veracity of black testimony in doubt so that the crimes of slavery must be CONFIRMED by UNQUESTIONABLE AUTHORITIES and other WHITE OBSERVERS to be made VISIBLE.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hartman '97 </span>** Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
Saidiya V.- “SCENCES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 20-21

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Deep and I walk away from America. We affirm the resolution as a fanatical performative agitation substantially increasing our intellectual investment in the narratives of transportation infrastructure.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate has become an intellectual forum that reifies the maintenance and purity of white civil society. Whiteness within the debate relegates the black body as invisible by focusing on the mind over the body. Blackness becomes a stain upon academic discourse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Reid-Brinkley 2k8</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 15]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">OUR PERSONAL AGENCY SHOULD NOT BE USED AS A VEHICLE OF FAITH FOR FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SOLVENCY.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Rodriguez ‘8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">[D</span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">ylan Rodriguez 2008 [Assistant Professor at University of California Riverside, </span>//<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Abolition Now!</span>//<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> p.93-100]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our ethics of refusal to blindly pledge allegiance to the flag is the first and most critical step towards liberation. We must create an alternate political structure that must refuse to grant credence to the current structure of governance and must be rooted in the ethics of refusal.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Martinot ‘5</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">Steve, adjunct professor at San Francisco State University, “Pro-Democracy and the Ethics of Refusal,” Socialism and Democracy, Vol. 19, No. 2</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">The creation and acceptance of common ethico-political principles TRANSFORMS the very nature of conflict making adversarial discussion compatible with PLURALISM, LIBERTY, and EQUALITY thus forcing the EXCLUSION of those who do not share the ETHICO-POLITICAL VALUES of the nation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Olson '08</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">, Associate professor of politics and international affairs, Northern Arizona University, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Joel; “Friends and Enemies, Slaves and Masters: Fanaticism, Wendell Phillips, and the Limits of Democratic Theory”; PG: 7-8</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">We can no longer place our faith in a politics of inclusion – A fanatical performative agitation renders neutrality impossible.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ross 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> Assc. Director of the Center for AfroAmerican and African Studies @ U Mich 2000 Marlon-Professor of English; Pleasuring Identity, or the Delicious Politics of Belonging; NEW LITERARY HISTORY, Vol. 31, No. 4, Is There Life after Identity Politics?; Autumn, 2000; pp.827-850.</span>

=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===Equity CP=== 
====<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">TEXT: The United States federal government should offer <plan> if, and only if, the recipient of the investment adopts a decision-making process that evaluates potential disparate impacts of <plan>. The United States federal government should withhold funding for <plan> if, and only if, the result of the investment violates disparate impact regulations as set forth in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Solves the whole aff and is key to prevent discrimination—current applications of Title VI are limited to lawsuits after the project’s implementation and require proof of intentional discrimination—evaluating potential disparate impacts </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">before</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> the implementation and making funding contingent is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Harvard Law Review, ’03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [April, 2003, 116 Harv. L. Rev. 1774, “After Sandoval: Judicial Challenges and Administrative Possibilities in Title VI Enforcement”, lexis nexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal agencies ..Title VI.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That’s key – an equity impact statement must precede planning and implementation to make transportation infrastructure less racist and more accessible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Levinson '02** [David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesota, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Environmental justice ..income equity</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Afropessimism K=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**The U.S. society remains a racist system, and though the ideals that give it legitimacy can be used by antiracist struggles to bring about its demise, no large-scale action has been taken to rebuild this system of racism from the foundation up.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Feagin President of the American Sociological Association 2K</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joe-Prof of Sociology, Univ. of Fla. Gainesville; “RACIST AMERICA: Roots, Current Realities and Future Reparations”; 235-236.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The liberal wing …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">large-scale protest. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The state as the determinant of a life that counts then that means value is given to the subject. Weighing rights against the lives of others inevitably leads to genocide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon, ’99 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael; Professor Politics, University of Lancaster, Political Theory, April 99, Vol. 27 Issue 2, p155, 21p “Another Justice”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Otherness is born(e)…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">way of being.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Minor “reforms” fail and mask domestic warfare</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the counter-advocacy:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our personal agency should not be used as a vehicle of faith for federal government solvency.</span>**

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rodriguez ‘8</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dylan-Assistant Professor at University of California Riverside, Abolition Now! p.93-100</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are collectively …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">drowned in blood.”</span>

===Death K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">There is no impact to the 1AC - make them prove why human existence is somehow important and why death is something we need to securitize ourselves against.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Quantum physics proves death is not a non-event</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lanza 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Robert - Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'"]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Many of us</span><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> …</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">to the other? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the logic extends </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**the death hand of docile bare-life as far as possible.** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deleuze and Guattari '72</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Anti-Oedipus, 330-39]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But it seems …its own Jack. </span>

===Deleuze K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It is insufficient to discuss war only at the macro level</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deleuze and Guattari ‘80</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [A Thousand Plateaus 214-215]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It is not … personal and collective.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Desire manifests itself at the local level – understanding macro level policies is a secondary consideration</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ballantyne ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University , "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 27-28]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">So these habits … an inaccurate aspect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to move toward rhizomatic politics</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Affirmation of the rhizome challenges dominant power bases</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Conley ‘6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In their dialogues … identity is undone.</span>

===Derrida K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Language is more slippy and ambiguous than we realize</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bally and Sechehaye ‘86</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Charles Bally and Albert Sechehaye, translators, “Course in General Linguistics” Ferdinand de Saussure, Swiss linguist whose ideas laid a foundation for many significant developments in linguistics in the 20th century, 1986]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Some people regard </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">of Principle I:</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Binary oppositions escalate to larger levels. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hubbard ‘10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Edward Akintola Hubbard, Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University “ANTHRO 1795: LANGUAGE AND POLITICS IN LATIN AMERICA NOTES ON DECONSTRUCTION: CLAUDE LEVI STRAUSS’S “A WRITING LESSON” AND JACQUES DERRIDA’S OF GRAMMATOLOGY” PG. 1-3] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is no coincidence, …is no excuse.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Only deconstruction can constantly overturn hierarchies.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Spivak ‘97</span>** [an Indian theorist, philosopher and University Professor at Columbia University, where she is a founding member of the school's Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, “Jacques Derrida OF GRAMMATOLOGY” Translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak,”]</span>

Speaking of .. be ignored.

===Economic Rationality K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Using economics to explain interstate actions presupposes economics as a neutral reflection of reality, rather than a historical construct. The affirmatives predictions rely upon a flawed understanding of interpersonal interactions, dooming them to failure.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">De Goede ‘3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2003, Marieke de Goede has a PhD in International Studies and Goede is Senior Lecturer at the Department of European Studies, University of Amsterdam, Review of International Studies, Vol. 29, No. 1 (Tan., 2003), pp. 79-97 Cambridge University Press ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, the epistemic…aspects of life’.50</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Reliance on rational economic enframings of reality destroys the environment, entire populations, and quality of life culminating in extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nhanenge ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Jytte Nhanenge, a Danish expatriate, has completed three degrees and has contributed heavily to international development theory, focusing specifically on poverty alleviation. She was a student at the University of South Africa, whose paper was submitted in part for fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Generation of wealth …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">destroy the world</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC</span>==== 
=====Impact Extension===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The existence guaranteed by economic rationality is one devoid of all meaning – the inability to value fundamental aspects of our existence devalues all life.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nhanenge ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Jytte Nhanenge, a Danish expatriate, has completed three degrees and has contributed heavily to international development theory, focusing specifically on poverty alleviation. She was a student at the University of South Africa, whose paper was submitted in part for fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Value is coming …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and natural values.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Des Jardins 2001: 56-60). </span>

=====A2: Permutation: Do Both===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Permutation fails – the integration of other considerations into economics masks exploitation, creating more poverty and environmental degradation, only abandoning economics can solve.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nhanenge ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Jytte Nhanenge, a Danish expatriate, has completed three degrees and has contributed heavily to international development theory, focusing specifically on poverty alleviation. She was a student at the University of South Africa, whose paper was submitted in part for fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, Marilyn Waring …</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">poverty has increased</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Capra 1982: 198-199; Waring 1994: 159). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The system of economics itself relies upon a maximization of profit. A new economic system, no matter how liberal is not enough – only be abandoning the economic framework for understanding relations can we deal with the problems of the 1AC.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nhanenge ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Jytte Nhanenge, a Danish expatriate, has completed three degrees and has contributed heavily to international development theory, focusing specifically on poverty alleviation. She was a student at the University of South Africa, whose paper was submitted in part for fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In spite of …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and environmental problems. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**And, we’ll isolate a disad to the permuation – the belief in rationality employed by economics and the attempt to combine economics with other perspectives suppresses emotional responses – the underside of this emotional repression manifests itself in a fundamentally irrational quests for power** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nhanenge ‘7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [2007, Jytte Nhanenge, a Danish expatriate, has completed three degrees and has contributed heavily to international development theory, focusing specifically on poverty alleviation. She was a student at the University of South Africa, whose paper was submitted in part for fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Apart from being …</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">feelings and cooperate</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. (Birkeland 1995: 67). </span>


===Race K=== 
====1NC==== 
**MAKE THEM DEFEND SILENCE**
**WE HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE WHITENESS VISIBLE**
**Dr. Crenshaw '97** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Carrier-Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; //Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence//; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ideological rhetorical .. social status</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> (van Dijk; Wellman). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Status quo transportation policy relies on a white supremacist framework, thus providing disproportionate benefits to wealthy, well educated, white males.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bullard ‘2K</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Robert D.-; TRANSPORTATION EQUITY IN THE 21ST CENTURY: A Newsletter of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University”; Volume 1, Number 1; Spring, 2000;]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Procedural Inequity. .. economic activities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Memmi '2K </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Albert-Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>]

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The struggle ..are irresistible.</span>

====2NC==== 

=====A2: Obama Solves===== 
**FALSE - Obama is not the end to White Supremacy and Colorism**
**Chinweizu '8** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Chinweizu Ibekwe;</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> “</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">//Barack Obama: The Death of White Supremacy? A Discussion with Amiri Baraka, Chinweizu, Floyd Hayes. Lloyd McCarthy, Jonathan Scott, and others////”//; [[http://www.nathanielturner.com/barackobamadeathofwhitesupremacy.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">We need to ...</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Black Consciousness.”</span>

**"Colorblindness" is a ruse that guarantees the continuation of racism**
**Espinoza and Harris '97** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Leslie and Angela, Associate Prof. of Law @ Boston College, and Professor of Law @ UC Berkeley, California Law Review, October, Lexis]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Critical race scholars ...</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> the whim of whites.</span>

**Their turns do not assume institutionalized forms of privelege**
**Randall '8** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Vernillia-professor of Law @ the University of Dayton, web editor of RACE, RACISM AND THE LAW;</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **“**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">//Racism v. Colorism: A Wrong Headed Debate”//;]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Recently, I have ...</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> in health care.</span>

===Social Militarism K=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Deploying “war” rhetoric as a means of achieving peace is an act of war in and of itself</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Mansfield ‘8** [Nick-Cultural Studies Chairperson at Macquarie University, editor of Derrida Today, Theorizing War pg. 1-3]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">He cites two .. sense at all. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**The Rhetoric of “War” has expanded and inverted into a completely militaristic concept – and shapes governmental policy – it provides an imperative that collapses all moral boundaries** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Giroux ‘8** [Henry - War Talk, the Death of the Social, and Disappearing Children: A Lesson for Obama.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Under the Bush … on the constitution." </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The process of academically educating students by introducing this type of argument, as per the representations of the 1NC, is key to provide us with the tools of breaking down the militarization of society</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Giroux ‘8** [Henry - Against the Militarized Academy. Thursday 20 November 2008.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Over 17 million … of human rights. </span>

====2NC==== 
=====A2: Censorship===== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Turn - the affirmative is censorship - it operates through epistemic norms that silence voices and police public debate</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stone-Mediatore ‘10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Shari - Dpt. Philosophy, Ohio Wesleyan University; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45, 2010]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">For several .. “not academically-oriented.”</span>

===Spectacular Blackness K=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC - Scranton Quarters v. Head Royce MP</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DEBATE HAS BECOME A GAME IN WHICH WE BECOME SPECTATORS</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">KETELS Assc Prof of English @Temple University 1996</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violet-//THE HOLOCAUST: REMEMBERING FOR THE FUTURE: "Havel to the Castle!" The Power of the Word//; THE ANNALS OF AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, November; 548 Annals 45; </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Books, essays, speeches by …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the ugly European past." n18</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE LINK IS HOW THEY CHOOSE TO ENGAGE IN THE RESOLUTION</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">KETELS Assc Prof of English @Temple University 1996</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violet-//THE HOLOCAUST: REMEMBERING FOR THE FUTURE: "Havel to the Castle!" The Power of the Word//; THE ANNALS OF AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, November; 548 Annals 45;</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Prague Spring was "the ……..</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> complicity in its lies. n39</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debate must have a purpose and engage on the path of truth seeking so that individuals use the information to make substantial changes in their civic democracy in order to improve the lives of oppressed groups. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">KETELS Assc Prof of English @Temple University 1996</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violet-//THE HOLOCAUST: REMEMBERING FOR THE FUTURE: "Havel to the Castle!" The Power of the Word//; THE ANNALS OF AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, November; 548 Annals 45;</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ABSTRACT: This article …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">life sacred again.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE AFFIRMATIVE’S JUSTIFICATION MAKES BLACKNESS SPECTACULAR</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">HARTMAN Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY 1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Saidiya V.- “SCENES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 20-21</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> As well, we need ask ... </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">master, and other popular amusements.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THIS TURNS THE CASE, SPILLING THEIR HARMS OVER TO THE DEBATE SPACE</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">HARTMAN Associate Professor of English @ UC BERKLEY 1997</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Saidiya V.- “SCENES OF SUBJECTION: Terror, Slavery, and Self-Making in Nineteenth-Century America”; pp. 21-23</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> By slipping into the …</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">expectations of the “peculiar institution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE ALTERNATIVE IS A MORAL IMPERATIVE TO CREATE A BLACK AESTHETIC</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ABUGO ONGIRI Asst Prof of English Film and Media Studies @ University of Florida '10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Amy- “Spectacular Blackness: The Cultural Politics of the Black Power Movement and the Search for a Black Aesthetics; p. 15-17.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">By 1968, the cultural, … </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">urban industrialized world.</span>

== ==