[[toc]]
All requested cites will be posted. If you want it, ask, Otherwise we aren't putting it up

All cite requests send to tommy.policy@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
==1AC- Wake== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our wake affs weren't fun at all, so we aren't running them anymore. The next aff will be up when it's first broken at Hooch</span>== 



=Negative= 

==Strats== 

===Wake=== 

Rd. 1 v Pittsburgh Central Catholic (Freight Rail- econ, competitiveness)

1NC- Absurdity/ Camus K, Spending disad, tics, Private cp, case D
2NC- Absurdity
1NR- Politics
2NR- Absurdity/ Camus

Rd. 3 v Chamblee AP (TI for waste disposal- NAFTA, spills, terrorism)

1NC- Extra-T, NexGen trade-off, elections, waste burial cp, Absurdity, Case D
2NC- Absurdity
1NR- NextGen disad
2NR- Absurdity


Rd. 6 v John's creek AX (Nextgen- Oil prices, Warming)

1NC- Spending disad, politics disad, privatization cp, Absurdity, Case d, oil price-russia turn
2NC- Absurdity
1NR- Cp, politics, Russia turn
2NR- Absurdity

===Hooch=== 

==Requested cites== 

===Absurdity K=== 

====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Uncertainty and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. The aff’s attempt to impose order onto a world that is not and cannot be ordered creates and reinforces the existential anxiety of our time, causing totalitarianism.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gordan ‘03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">I have a recurring dream: I am lost at sea. Murderous waves crash down, a gale howls. Barely able to stay afloat, I thrash about, panic-stricken. Without direction, I have no idea how to get to safety. The feeling is utter chaos. Desperate, I’m bailing like a madman, trying to empty the ocean with a bucket. I am, as Alice would say, running twice as hard as I can to stay exactly where I am. Through my confusion and despair, I hear whispered words, “Lord help me for my boat is so small and your sea is so immense.” This is the point when I inevitably wake up. Naturally, I am greatly relieved that it has only been a dream, until it dawns on me that there’s not much difference between my dreaming and waking life. Making my way through the day, I am indeed overwhelmed by a sea of detail that I can’t ever seem to get a handle on—family, finances, health, job—all the variables of my life rushing toward me in flood of chaotic uncertainty. This is not my beautiful life. Where are the security and order that was promised me? All my carefully constructed truths, everything I have counted on and identified with, seems suddenly false or lost or changing. And when I pick up the morning newspaper, there’s more. Not only my life but the whole world seems to be deconstructing. I’m back in my dream—drowning in a sea of uncertainty.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Having practiced for many years as a psychotherapist, I have good reason to believe that I am not alone in my anxiety; it is common to a great majority of those of us living in the modern industrialized world. In Care of the Soul, one of the most widely read books of the past decade, psychologist Thomas Moore (1992) lists emptiness, a loss of core values, and the general malaise of meaninglessness as hallmarks of our culture. It is hard to deny Moore’s assertion. Only pick up a copy of Time magazine or turn on the TV. Everywhere we look, images of discord and dissent remind us that the political, economic, and social structures we once held as inviolable are rapidly eroding.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our typical response to chaos is an instinctual drive to **impose order and regain control**. Our fear of uncertainty often impels us toward **irrational and sometimes bizarre behavior**. As in my dream where I am trying to empty the ocean with a bucket, such neurotic activity does little to assuage our anxiety and may even serve to increase it. And neither should we imagine that only individuals can be affected in this way. Stalinism, Nazism, McCarthyism, and fundamentalism of all stripes are examples of the kind of irrationality of which institutions and governments are capable in the name of order.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rollo May (1977) stated that totalitarianism “may be viewed as serving a purpose on a cultural scale parallel to that in which a neurotic symptom protects an individual from a situation of unbearable anxiety” (p. 12). His further statement that “people grasp at political authoritarianism in the desperate need for relief from anxiety” (May, 1977, p. 12) suggests that perhaps, in the end, it is precisely our resistance to chaos and uncertainty and our almost pathological need to impose order where there may, in fact, be none at all, that is the cause of so much of our dis-ease. I am reminded of the words of systems theorist Kenneth Boulding, who warned that we always “run into the temptation of imposing an order on the universe **which may not really be there****”** (Stamps, 1980, p. i).</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">This drive for perfection causes a denial of what makes us human, oppression, and genocide.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Issac ‘89</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey, “Arendt, Camus and Postmodern Politics” PRAXIS International, issue: 1+2 / 1989, pages: 48-71)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This leads us to a second key feature of totalitarianism – its relentlessly ideological character. For both writers, ideologies are totalistic world views based upon a necessitarian logic. For Camus, the murderous systems of Stalinism and Nazism are both rooted in a kind of cowardice typical of the ideological mentality: “As soon as man, through lack of character, takes refuge in a doctrine, as soon as crime reasons about itself, it multiplies like reason itself and assumes all the aspects of the syllogism ... Ideology today is concerned only with the denial of other human beings, who alone bear the responsibility of deceit. It is then that we kill.“36 Camus calls the consequence of this “totality”: “nothing other than the ancient dream of unity common to both believers and rebels, but projected horizontally onto an earth deprived of God.’’ Totality is a form of perfectionist politics premised upon the suppression of any and all human difference, dedicated with a murderous logic to the fabrication of uniformity. He writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Totality] supposes a negation and a certainty: the certainty of the infinite malleability of man and the negation of human nature. Propaganda techniques serve to measure the degree of this malleability and try to make reflection and conditioned reflex coincide . .. The experiment has not yet been brought to an end, but its principle is logical. If there is no human nature, then the malleability of man is, in fact, infinite. Political realism, on this level, is nothing but unbridled romanticism, a romanticism of expediency. Ideology, purporting to articulate cosmic necessity, whether of World History or Aryan Destiny, demands the unequivocal submission of concrete human beings, who “are hostile to it in so far as human nature, to date, has never been able to live by history alone and has always escaped from it by some means.” 37 Ideology isthus both figuratively and literally terroristic, insofar as its claim to absolute universality cannot tolerate the particularities which comprise the existing world. It is figuratively terroristic insofar as it entails a perpetual uncertainty regarding what precisely is “necessary,” an uncertainty affecting all but the sanctum sanctorum of the party elite, who alone can claim to speak for it with confidence in their “objective innocence.” And ideology is terroristic literally insofar as it licenses systematic murder.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to do nothing in embracing the absurd</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park ’06</span>__**(James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 68)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our fundamental **absurdity** is disclosed whenthe mad rush called "life” pauses, when our eyes pierce thru the fog of busyness, and our spirits rebel against the cardboard explanations of the world. How chancy, contingent, accidental, & inconsequential we are! We find ourselves plopped into an ordered but meaningless universe -as if we woke up after the instructions for the game of life had already been given-and now we don't know how to play!</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The little humorous absurdities of life have grown fat by eating up the certainties of the past leaving us in the midst of limitless, overwhelming absurdity. Felt another way, our Existential Predicament is terrifying **insecurity** --complete shakiness and lack of stability in everything. We try to protect and shield ourselves thru elaborate security operations: jobs, insurance, savings; marriage, family, friends. But if our uneasiness is existential, these security games are never sufficient – which might lead us to ever more desperate scrambling for invulnerability. Or the little disappointments of life, like jagged rocks in the river, might tear our rubber rafts of illusion, sinking us into bottomless despair. However, such experiences of existential absurdity, insecurity, & despair can also open us to a new sensitivity and depth within ourselves. Initially what seems to be unredeemable suffering can be tuned toward positive purpose in Authentic Existence -and beyond that- transformed into an opening to Existential Freedom: Where once we were almost pulled to pieces by absurdity, we now find ourselves filled with inward peace, harmony, & coherence. Even tho the world and our ordinary lives remain as absurd as ever, inwardly we have become fulfilled, satisfied, complete. Thru fumbling, somewhat random efforts, we have finally hit upon the correct posture-of-being that allows us to become ultimately safe and secure. This restful strength does not come from efforts to **achieve** security -but only when we completely **abandon** our defensive techniques. Put another way, we become existentially free by giving up our attempts to cure our Existential Malaise, by allowing ourselves to sink into despair, hoping beyond reason that we will sink thru the bottom of despair into inexplicable hope, joy, peace, & fulfillment. We cannot **explain** this deep change. We only know that once we were distorted by absurdity, shaken by insecurity, & drowning in despair. But now we are resting harmoniously in peace and inner coherence, relying confidently on our new-found strength, stability, & security, and floating serenely on a surprising hope and joy.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">AT: perm</span>==== 

The alt could not be more mutually exclusive – anything less than an unconditional commitment to existential freedom ensures that absurdity consumes us



Park ’06 (James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 21, jj)

When we find ourselves on the edge of the Abyss, we are also poised on the brink of Existential Freedom. And only when we peer down into our despair, anxiety, & death, are we likely to be willing to sacrifice our self-reliance and commit ourselves totally toward a possibility of which we know nothing. The first phase of existential commitment is non-specific but unconditional. We must be willing to abandon all our old means of self-fulfillment and to reorganize our lives in response to Existential Freedom. As long as we cling to some form of self-sufficiency, we will remain under our Existential Predicament - anxious, depressed, lost. "Unconditional commitment" means giving ourselves without reservation. If we are still committed to something else (for instance achievement or love), we will find that our turn-around is not complete and that we are still struggling with our existential emptiness and guilt. Becoming unconditionally responsive to Existential Freedom does not necessarily mean changing our external lives, but if these patterns of living, these ways of using our time, embody our attempts at self-fulfillment, they will have to be abandoned, or at least our orientation toward them will have to be radically altered. The choice is either/or never both/and. We can unconditionally commit ourselves only in one basic direction.




====AT: extinction OW==== 
no impact to extinction without authenticity - life is literally meaningless until we embrace the absurd and start asking the hard questions about whether life can have a purpose

Park ’06 (James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 73, jj)
Sometimes we find ourselves set at a distance from the world of our daily concerns. We begin to see the familiar as if it were new and strange. We seem to be wandering in a foreign land. We notice things in a new light: What are all these people so busy doing? Where are they going in such a hurry? Do they ever notice the ridiculousness of their behavior? Why do they regard their activities as valuable and important? What difference would it make if this day had not happened? Sometimes the world seems like a colony of ants, each individual endlessly repeating his behavior until he dies. No one asks about the ultimate meaning. Each merely continues faithfully to fulfill his little function. Would it be so great a loss (and a loss to whom) if the whole ant colony were wiped out in an instant

-like a distant city of which we have never beard being swallowed up by the earth? What is a city for, anyway?

It is a cluster of buildings where people live and reproduce. They hold jobs and live off one another. But is it not circular, adding up to precisely zero in the end?

====Alt Solvency==== 

====Embracing the absurd is key to rebellion, authenticity, and re-activating value to life==== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Park ’06</span>__**(James, Philosophy Professor at the University of Minnesota, “Our Existential Predicament: Loneliness Depression Anxiety and Death”, p. 63, jj)

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most of the means of //coping// with our Existential Malaise, which we have just examined, amount to //ignoring the absurd//</span>__//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __But now we turn to an honest way of handling our Predicament -a posture of being that is not passive and evasive, but aggressive and active, courageous and self-affirming__. Instead of //ignoring the absurd,// Authentic Existence //defies the absurd.// Albert </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Camus</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,who has already helped us to //notice// our absurdity, __can also guide us toward //rebelling// against the absurd__. __Camus turns the seemingly negative experience of existential absurdity into a powerful positive principle, which enhances and deepens human life__: it was previously a question of finding out whether or not __life__ had to have a meaning to be lived. It now becomes clear, on the contrary, that it __will be lived all the better if it has no meaning.__ [Albert Camus //The Mvth of Sysyphus p.// 39-40] By this paradox Camus means that life will be lived better if there is //no predetermined pattern// to which we must conform. If life had a ready-made meaning, then we would have to put ourselves into //that box to// attain meaning. But __once we see human life as essentially meaningless and absurd, then we can freely //design and create our own meanings//__//.// __We become more Authentic__, according to Camus, __by placing ourselves in a courageous, affirmative, defiant //tension// with the absurd. Rejecting evasion on the one hand and suicide on the other. we move toward Authenticity by facing existential absurdity: We must either //consume// the absurd-incorporating it into our beings or be consumed //by// the absurd. The acids of absurdity are corrosive only to the skin; so the Authentic response is to drink the acid and make it part of ourselves.__</span>

<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The alt is a pre-requisite to the aff – you can’t solve anything without confronting our absurdity</span>**</span>
<span class="cite">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Akram</span>__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> ‘</span><span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">91</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Tanweer; Holiday, “The Philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre”; 18 January 1991; http://www.bradcolbourne.com/exist.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In Albert Camus's philosophical and literary works the recognition of the absurdity of human existence is a central principle. The__realization of the absurdity of human existence is a necessary condition for accomplishing anything in life__**__.__** The absurdity of existence is best exemplified in the myth of Sisyphus, in which the gods have condemned Sisyphus to ceaselessly roll a rock to the mountain peak. Every time Sisyphus pushes the rock up the slopes it falls back; nevertheless, he goes back to push it uphill. In spite of failing to reach his objective, he is resolutely committed to keep striving. The condition of Sisyphus dramatizes the perpetual meaninglessness, futility, and absurdity of human existence. This emptiness of life's actions and endeavors poignantly reveals the absurd. __In a world stripped of its illusions and__false pretensions**__,__** __the human__being__is an outsider, who lives without__any **__meaning____.__** The human being is__placed in a hopeless__ and void__situation.__This limiting reality leads the human being to encounter the absurd in every aspect of being, ranging from routine activities in life to unusual and unconventional circumstances. The consequent problem of suicide, arising from the absurd, is the core question in Camus' philosophy. __All human actions and thoughts develop in the void, in the midst of weariness and frustrations, irrelevancies, the bizarre, unconformities, illusions, and evasions, which make those actions and thoughts absurd. The human attempt to grasp the mechanism and the dynamics of the universe also turns into an absurd confrontation between the human being and his surroundings. Ironically the human being can only realize the absurdity of the universe in his attempt to comprehend it__**__.__** This contradiction and this paradox of existence seem to be the sole reality that develops as a result of the universe's indifference to human existence. Camus does not suggest that the universe is in itself hostile toward the human being. Rather the absurdity lies in the underlying discord in the relationship between the human being and the universe. The silence of the universe creates an eerie feeling in the human being which brings about a disappointing awareness that there can be no salvation from the external world, that the human being is alone and has been thrust into a universe where self-realization is the only road to freedom.__The absurdity of the universe is not a given phenomenon; the human being realizes the sweeping absurdity of his being in the universe only when he perceives the nature of his existence. Thus, the human being discovers the absurdity of existence when he correctly perceives the universe.__</span>