=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contact</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cites - Linda Gong [dolan] - [[mailto:lindazgong@gmail.com|lindazgong@gmail.com]] and Stephanie You [stahp] - [[mailto:steph.coolcat@gmail.com|steph.coolcat@gmail.com]]</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Kritikal Sewers 1AC</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Plan</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in sewage transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>
----
==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contention 1 is Clean Water</span>== 
=====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers heighten quality of life. However, sewage overflows cause severe damage to the drinking water system. </span>===== 
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">EPA 6/12 United States Environmental Protection Agency June 2000832-F-00-005¶ Office of Water http://www.cityofknoxville.org/engineering/stormwater/sso/EPA-SSO-June2000.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Y¶ our community ...country</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">==</span>== 
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Water is a human right--water scarcity causes a loss in v2l and dehumanization</span>
----
==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">==</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">ENS,’10 (Environment News Service,7/29/10, “UN recognizes Access to Clean Water as a Human Right”, [[http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/jul2010/2010-07-29-01.html]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Access to clean safe drinking water...diseases</span>
----
======<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Clean water and sanitation are human rights—the US is lacking, especially in areas of poverty</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hauter 11Executive Director, Food & Water Watch http://www.huffingtonpost.com/wenonah-hauter/americas-poor-and-the-hum_b_833614.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">60 minutes...human rights</span>

----

======<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Dehumanization destroys the value to life and outweighs all calculable impacts</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Berube 97 – [David M., Professor of Communication Studies at University of South Carolina., “NANOTECHNOLOGICAL PROLONGEVITY: The Down Side,” [[http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">This means-ends dispute is at the ….evil's most powerful weapon.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Specifically Native Americans</span>
----
======<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Bad sewage management plagues many poor communities, especially Native American communities. Federal funding is key to covering this.</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">EPA 12 http://water.epa.gov/type/watersheds/wastewater/eparev.cfm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Pooled sewage …. same time.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">America segregates its racial minorities and native populations into the poverty-stricken rural countryside where they lack potable drinking water, proper sanitation, and rainwater drainage. Rural minorities represent the poorest of poor.</span>

----
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Zeller 12Tom Zeller Jr., is a senior writer covering a variety of topics, including poverty, energy policy and the environment. Before joining The Huffington Post, Tom spent more than 10 years as a reporter and editor at The New York Times, where he covered numerous beats, including technology culture and policy, cybercrime, clean energy and the politics of climate change.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">About … "Progress moves at a snail's pace."</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Specifically poor and minority neighborhoods</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewage problems are particularly concentrated in minority neighborhoods.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hay 12 (Mark, capitalnewyork.com, Gray and green: The story of a big-city sewer system that worked too well, http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/05/5610263/gray-and-green-story-big-city-sewer-system-worked-too-well?page=all)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">SEWAGE PROBLEMS DO NOT AFFECT ALL AREAS OF THE CITY EQUALLY, …. the state to close it</span>
----
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">.US not meeting human rights obligations. The poor are lacking access to safe drinking water and sanitation—especially racial minorities</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hauter 11 Wenonah Hauter is the Executive Director of Food & Water Watch. She has worked extensively on energy, food, water and environmental issues at the national, state and local level. Experienced in developing policy positions and legislative strategies, she is also a skilled and accomplished organizer, having lobbied and developed grassroots field strategy and action plans. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/wenonah-hauter/americas-poor-and-the-hum_b_833614.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Last Sunday's 60 Minutes shed a light on an underreported fact: soon, roughly one in four children in the U.S. will live below the poverty level. …. cited by de Albuquerque.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Lack of water, sanitation creates cycle of poverty</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Kern and Ritzen NO DATE Ann Kern ¶ Executive Director ¶ Sustainable Development and Healthy ¶ Environments ¶ World Health Organization, Jo Ritzen ¶ Vice President and Network Head ¶ Human Development ¶ World Bank “Dying for a Change” http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTPAH/Resources/Publications/Dying-for-Change/dyifull2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In … broad-based development”.</span>

----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sanitary conditions of impoverished neighborhoods are dehumanizing—long term solutions, such as access to sewers, are needed.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hauter 11 Wenonah Hauter is the Executive Director of Food & Water Watch. She has worked extensively on energy, food, water and environmental issues at the national, state and local level. Experienced in developing policy positions and legislative strategies, she is also a skilled and accomplished organizer, having lobbied and developed grassroots field strategy and action plans. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/wenonah-hauter/americas-poor-and-the-hum_b_833614.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">She …. de Albuquerque.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Poverty is the worst form of violence –systemic violence outweighs any imaginable war</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Gilligan 2000(James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic, p. 195-196)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">You cannot work for one day with the violent people … for they are inextricably related to each other, as cause to effect.</span>
----

==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contention 2 is biodiversity</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Wastewater management is key to biodiversity</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Thames Water 11 [[http://www.thameswater.co.uk/about-us/7412.htm]] they manage a program that helps manage our impacts on environment. Ignore the fact that this is from England because it doesn’t matter. Wastewater will have an impact on the environment</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">How we manage water and wastewater can …. protect biodiversity.</span>
----
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Specifically, sewer overflows cause a decrease in fish biodiversity</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">EPA 12 [[http://www.epa.gov/oecaerth/data/planning/priorities/cwamso.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Combined sewer overflows (CSOs) … bacteria and pathogens.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewage overflow increases phytoplankton levels, causes oxygen depletion</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Rudolf 10 (John Collins, environmental reporter for the NY Times, http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/04/28/in-fearsome-floods-a-dividend/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In …. Narragansett Bay.</span>
----
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Oxygen-deprived “dead zones” independently lead to mass extinction</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Simmons 10 (Amy, environmental reporter for ABC news – highlighted sections quote Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, a well-known and credible marine biologist)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Australian scientists …. world's oceans and their life.</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Decreases in biodiversity in the ecosystem affects all aspects of human life—impacts are extreme, even extinction</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Watson and Zakri 00 Dr. Robert T. Watson ¶ MA Board Co-chair ¶ Chief Scientist¶ The World Bank¶ Dr. A.H. Zakri ¶ MA Board Co-chair ¶ Director, Institute for Advanced Studies¶ United Nations University http://www.millenniumassessment.org/documents/document.356.aspx.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Changes in ecosystem …. regulation of ﬂoods, or provision of ¶ (</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">One extinction can trigger a cascade of secondary extinctions—leading to human extinction</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Santos 99Miguel A. Santos, Professor, Natural Sciences, CUNY-Baruch, 1999 The Environmental Crisis, p. 35-36</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In view …. secondary extinction.</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Specifically, salmon</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Phytoplankton blooms kill salmon</span>
----
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">OPB 11 (Oregon Public Broadcasting, Tiny Algae Bloom By The Billions To Threaten Northwest Salmon, http://www.opb.org/news/article/tiny-algae-bloom-billions-threaten-northwest-salmon/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Right now coastal waters in the Northwest are a bustle - salmon are running, killer whales are showing up, and so are algae. Sometimes massive blooms of algae show up in coastal waters … turn toxic.</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Northwest salmon keystone species – decline ruins ecosystem</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hunt 2k (Ed, Environmental News Service, Salmon & Ecologics, “Ecosystem Keystone: Salmon support 137 other species, http://www.bluefish.org/keystone.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">More than 137 species of fish and wildlife …. Cederholm. "But behind it, it's the whole ecosystem."</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Pacific Northwest Orcas depend on salmon</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hawley 10, environmental journalist, 2010 (Steven, journalist, author of Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, “The Idaho Tide,” Summer, http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?&assetid=53761, LVS)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Wolves are thriving in the Idaho woods for the same reason salmon should be – lots of protected, healthy habitat. But it’s the fish whose presence triggers the larger ecological ripple. Salmon tend to wander a bit farther than wolves. In 2003, an Idaho steelhead was caught in the Pacific near the Kuril Islands in northern Japan. Fattening on the bounty of the sea makes salmon the building blocks of forest ecosystems in the Pacific Northwest …. forests.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem</span>
----
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">National Wildlife Federation 06 (“Orcas on the Edge,” 10/1, [[http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">West Coast waters once …two-thirds of our planet."</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;"> Oceanic biodiversity prevents collapse of entire life system</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cousteau 00Cousteau, President, Ocean Futures Society, in 2000</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">[Jean-Michel, “What We Can't See Can Hurt Us,” Seattle Post-Intelligencer, 3/14 p. A11]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Loss of oceanic biodiversity means loss of …. Out of sight is no longer out of mind.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contention 3 is No War</span>
----

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Deudney and Ikenberry 09 [Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">This bleak outlook is … international integration and cooperation.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">No extinction—humanity resilient</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Bruce Tonn, Futures Studies Department, Corvinus University of Budapest, 2005, “Human Extinction Scenarios,” [[@http://www.budapestfutures.org/|www.budapestfutures.org/]] downloads/abstracts/Bruce% 20Tonn%20-%20Abstract.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;"> The … to single events.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Good decision-making requires you to reject their fixation on worst-case scenarios</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Rescher ‘83</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">[Nicholas, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The "… situation of hazard.</span>
----
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Structural violence outweighs and lies at the root cause of all other forms of violence</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Gilligan 96 – [James, Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical and Director of the Center for the Study of Violence “Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and Its Causes,” p191-196]cn</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The 14 to 18 million deaths a …. as cause to effect.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">We have an obligation to assist the helpless Other, even in the face of extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Jovanovic and Wood 04, Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">(Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">On September 11, …heart of an inferno.</span>
----
==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Funding in sewers improves quality of life</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">SEMCOG ‘1 Southeast Michigan Council of Governments http://library.semcog.org/InmagicGenie/DocumentFolder/SewerInfrastructureNeeds.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Although …. future.</span>
----
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Equity is the best method of evaluation of distribution—it helps the most disadvantaged.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Boschmann and Kwan 2008 [E. Eric, Ph.D., Ohio State University and Asst. Geography Professor at University of Denver & Mei-Po, Professor of Geography at UC-Berkeley and Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">“Toward Socially Sustainable Urban Transportation: Progress and Potentials,” International Journal of Sustainable Transportation, Volume 2, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/ujst20/2/3|Issue 3]], March 17th 2008, pages 138-157, spencer]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Equity is one …. efficiency.</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers get rid of excreta and waste-water</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Satterthwaite 8David Satterthwaite is a senior fellow at the International Institute for Environment and Development in London. http://www.newint.org/features/2008/08/01/sewer-or-not/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">However, …. They also work well in multi-storey housing (most alternative systems do not).</span>





=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers 1AC</span>= 
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Inherency</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Contention 1 is inherency</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Federal funding is empirically key to covering sewers upfront costs— stimulus bill is a small fraction of what is needed</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Duhigg 9 Charles Duhigg is a reporter for The New York Times, based in New York. Won a couple major awards Pulitzer prize nbd http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/23/us/23sewer.html?pagewanted=all&_r=1&</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">To combat these shifts, some cities are encouraging sewer-friendly development. New</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">clean as much sewage as possible, but sometimes, that isn’t enough.”</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Federal government is reducing budget on much-needed sewer improvements</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">SEMCOG ‘1 Southeast Michigan Council of Governments http://library.semcog.org/InmagicGenie/DocumentFolder/SewerInfrastructureNeeds.pdfFederal government support for sewer-related improvements has been reduced to a relative trickle.¶ The state's contribution has always been limited.¶ • In 1974, the federal and state government contributed $255 million to sewer infrastructure.¶ In 2000, they contributed $68 million.¶ Operation¶ and Maintenance¶ Sewer¶ Rehabilitation¶ Combined Sewer¶ Overflow Control¶ Sanitary Sewer¶ Overflow Remediation¶ New Sewer¶ Construction¶ Wastewater¶ Treatment Plants¶ $10¶ $20¶ $30¶ $40¶ $50¶ $60¶ $0¶ Billions of dollars¶ Low Middle High¶ 2001 Dollars¶ Low Middle High¶ With inflation,¶ principal and interest¶ Estimated 30-Year Cost for Sewer Infrastructure,¶ Southeast Michigan There is no long-term commitment for continued federal funding. In fact, budget proposals often¶ target reductions in sewer infrastructure funding.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Significant need in investment. States leveraging not nearly enough.</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">SEMCOG ‘1 Southeast Michigan Council of Governments [[http://library.semcog.org/InmagicGenie/DocumentFolder/SewerInfrastructureNeeds.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The 1987 amendments provided federal authorizations through 1994. However, yearly federal appropriations¶</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">reduction will widen the already existing gap between needs and¶ available funds.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Economy</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Advantage 1 is the economy</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">US economy is dominated by uncertainty – weak earnings season </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Bloomberg 10/26/12 (Nick Gentle, “Stocks Slide on Earnings; Oil, Metals Drop Before Data,” Bloomberg News, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2012-10-26/asian-stocks-fall-after-apple-earnings-as-metals-yen-advance.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Stocks declined, with a global benchmark dropping to a seven-week low,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">0.4 percent to $1,704.73 an ounce.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers are key to the economy – two internal links</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">A. Stimulus – every dollar invested doubles</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cohen et al ’12 – (Isabelle Cohen, all economic professors at University of William and Marry, THE ECONOMIC IMPACT AND FINANCING OF INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING, [[http://www.aednet.org/government/pdf-2012/infrastructure_report.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Aggregated estimates are reported below in Table One. Overall, the multiplicative effect of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">in the professional and business services sector, and finance and real estate.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The multiplier effect still applies to recessions</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cohen’12 – (Isabelle Cohen, all economic professors at University of William and Marry, THE ECONOMIC IMPACT AND FINANCING OF INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING, [[http://www.aednet.org/government/pdf-2012/infrastructure_report.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In the short-run, a dollar spent on infrastructure construction produces roughly double the ¶ initial spending in ultimate economic output. ¶ The biggest effects of infrastructure spending occur in the manufacturing and business ¶ services sectors.¶ In better economic times, spending on infrastructure construction generates a larger ¶ return. Yet even in a recession, the overall effects of initial spending still double output as ¶ they ripple through the economy.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Short term spending means your disads don’t link</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cohen’12 – (Isabelle Cohen, all economic professors at University of William and Marry, THE ECONOMIC IMPACT AND FINANCING OF INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING, [[http://www.aednet.org/government/pdf-2012/infrastructure_report.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">However, marginal products for sewer and water infrastructure as well as conservation and development</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-run remains positive and additive even beyond the initial one dollar spent.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">B. Jobs - wastewater transportation infrastructure creates thousands of jobs but initial investment is key</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Beckman 8 (David, Senior Attorney and Director, Water Program Los Angeles. “Fix the Sewer, Grow the Economy” http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dbeckman/fix_the_sewer_grow_the_economy.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">As Congress and state legislatures across the nation debate economic stimulus, investments in green</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">to come-and that there is enough of it to go around.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Investment in sewers creates empirically increases GDP, revenue, and jobs</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Krop, Hernick, and Frantz 8 Richard A. Ph.D, Charles, Christopher [[http://www.usmayors.org/urbanwater/documents/LocalGovt%20InvtInMunicipalWaterandSewerInfrastructure.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">¶ A recent study estimates that one dollar of water and sewer infrastructure investment¶</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">3.68 jobs in the ¶ national economy to support that job.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">And, a weak economy causes conflict – diversionary theory proves</span>==== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;"> Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Econ impact goes global </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world's financial architecture</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Terror</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Advantage 2 is terrorism</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers vulnerable to terrorism on many levels</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Copeland and Cody 7 (Claudia and Betsy, reporters for the Congressional Research Service. Both specialize in water infrastructure needs/investments.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Less attention has been focused on protecting wastewater treatment facilities than drinking water systems,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">at lower doses, can burn eyes and skin and inflame the lungs.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Terrorist threat is real, empirically proven</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Gleick 6 (Peter, expert on water and climate issues, Water and terrorism http://www.iwaponline.com/wp/00806/wp008060481.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The importance of freshwater and water infrastructure to human and ecosystem health and to the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">water systems. Suggestions of ways to reduce those risks are also presented.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">We’ll isolate 3 internal links</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Scenario 1 is bioterror</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Terrorist “denial of service” causes concentrated pathogen buildup</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Department of Homeland Security 11 (self-explanatory dude, [[http://publicintelligence.net/ules-dhs-wastewater-treatment-facility-vulnerabilities-and-terrorist-indicators-reports/|Wastewater Treatment Facility Vulnerabilities and Terrorist Indicators Reports]] http://publicintelligence.net/ules-dhs-wastewater-treatment-facility-vulnerabilities-and-terrorist-indicators-reports/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Two main effects can be produced by attacks on wastewater treatment systems: denial of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">effect is to create levels of fear that can result in societal disruption.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">And, an attack disrupts vital human services – nation’s public health at risk</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Copeland 10 (Claudia, specialist in resources and environmental policy at the Congressional Review Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/terror/RL32189.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The September 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">multiple infrastructure systems—transportation, water, electric power, and telecommunications.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">A successful attack would impact thousands</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Copeland 10 (Claudia, specialist in resources and environmental policy at the Congressional Review Service, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/terror/RL32189.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">A fairly small number of large drinking water and wastewater utilities located primarily in urban</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">agents or toxic chemicals, and could endanger the public health of thousands.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">It’s an existential risk more probable than nuclear war</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Matheny 7 (Jason Gaverick, research associate at Oxford University, former research associate for Center for Biosecurity, Sommer Scholar at Johns Hopkins University, MPH from Johns Hopkins, MBA from Duke University, BA from University of Chicago, "Risk Analysis," Vol. 27 No. 5, www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html SL)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">such experiments because the benefits do not seem to be worth the risks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Scenario 2 is chlorine</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Industrial chlorine a deadly terrorist target – could kill thousands – only the plan secures access</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Jones et al. 10 (Robert, MD; Brandon Wills, DO; and Christopher Kang, MD. Chlorine Gas: An Evolving Hazardous Material Threat and Unconventional Weapon, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2908650/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Once used as a chemical weapon in the World War I, chlorine gas has</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">involving chlorine releases and highlight some of the risks posed by chlorine gas.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Scenario 3 is access</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewers connect to every major building – huge terrorist opportunity</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Singer 3 (Paul, Washington Bureau, Chicago Tribune News http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2003-05-27/news/0305270154_1_sewers-wastewater-terrorist)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">WASHINGTON — Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, most of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">in a building or while being transported through a city, he said.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Existing regulations insufficient – leave security gaps</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Jacobs 11 (Jeremy P., E&E reporter, Dems call for including ports, wastewater plants in anti-terrorism program, http://www.eenews.net/public/EEDaily/2011/04/01/7)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Democrats on Capitol Hill yesterday made the case that water and port facilities should be</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">extremely costly for NACD members and would produce no real risk reduction benefit."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Only the plan solves - security regulations protect from terrorist damage – solves for denial of service</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">GAO 6 (Government Accountability Office, Securing Wastewater Facilities, Utilities have made important upgrades but further improvements to key system components may be limited by costs and other constraints http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/GAOREPORTS-GAO-06-390/pdf/GAOREPORTS-GAO-06-390.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">As noted, EPA provided funding to ASCE to develop a set of security guidance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">at 14 wastewater facilities has been reviewed under the Buffer Zone Protection program.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Biodiversity</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Advantage 3 is biodiversity</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Wastewater management is key to biodiversity </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Thames Water 11 [[http://www.thameswater.co.uk/about-us/7412.htm]] they manage a program that helps manage our impacts on environment. Ignore the fact that this is from England because it doesn’t matter. Wastewater will have an impact on the environment</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">How we manage water and wastewater can have a big impact on biodiversity and on</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">bodies and statutory undertakers, we have a formal duty to protect biodiversity.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Specifically, sewer overflows cause a decrease in fish biodiversity</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">EPA 12 [[http://www.epa.gov/oecaerth/data/planning/priorities/cwamso.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Combined sewer overflows (CSOs) and sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs) cause environmental</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">given that the discharge often contains a high concentration of bacteria and pathogens.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Fish are key to human survival</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Romm 10 JOE ROMM is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 "Best Blogs of 2010." In 2009, Rolling Stone put Romm #88 on its list of 100 "people who are reinventing America." Time named him a "Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger." Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT. http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2009/09/02/204589/a-sea-change-imagine-a-world-without-fish-ocean-acidification-film/By Joe Romm on Jul 29, 2010 at 8:24 pm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Ocean acidification must be a core climate message, since it is hard to deny</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">the oceans “” and save ourselves, since we depend on that life “”</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Sewage overflow increases phytoplankton levels, causes oxygen depletion</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Rudolf 10(John Collins, environmental reporter for the NY Times, http://green.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/04/28/in-fearsome-floods-a-dividend/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In decades past, Narragansett Bay typically experienced a late winter/early spring algal</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-starved fish and invertebrates washed up on the beaches of Narragansett Bay.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Oxygen-deprived “dead zones” independently lead to mass extinction</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Simmons 10(Amy, environmental reporter for ABC news – highlighted sections quote Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, a well-known and credible marine biologist)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Australian scientists fear the planet is on the brink of another mass extinction as ocean</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">reduce the impact of human activities on the world's oceans and their life.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Decreases in biodiversity in the ecosystem affects all aspects of human life—impacts are extreme, even extinction</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Watson and Zakri 00 Dr. Robert T. Watson ¶ MA Board Co-chair ¶ Chief Scientist¶ The World Bank¶ Dr. A.H. Zakri ¶ MA Board Co-chair ¶ Director, Institute for Advanced Studies¶ United Nations University http://www.millenniumassessment.org/documents/document.356.aspx.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Changes in ecosystem services inﬂuence all components of ¶ human well-being, including</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">the puriﬁcation of water, regulation of ﬂoods, or provision of ¶ (</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">One extinction can trigger a cascade of secondary extinctions—leading to human extinction</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Santos 99 Miguel A. Santos, Professor, Natural Sciences, CUNY-Baruch, 1999 The Environmental Crisis, p. 35-36</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">In view of their ecologic role in ecosystems, the impact of species extinctions may</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">extinction could have cascading effects on many species, even causing secondary extinction.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Biodiversity loss causes collapse and human extinction</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Diner 94Major David Diner, JAG Corps, United States Army, Winter 1994, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, p. 170-173</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">1. Why Do We Care? -- No species has ever dominated its fellow</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">wings, mankind [humankind] may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Plan</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in sewage transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>==== 
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Solvency</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Building and investing in new sewers generates economic activity and revenue</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cohen, Freiling, and Robinson ’12 The Economic Impact and Financing of Infrastructure Spending The College of William & Mary</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Thomas Jefferson Program in Public Policy¶ Williamsburg, Virginia¶ Prepared for¶ Associated Equipment Distributors http://www.aednet.org/government/pdf-2012/infrastructure_report.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">The results of the research demonstrate that infrastructure investment has important benefits ¶ beyond the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">¶ the economy, and even considered ways to fund additional infrastructure investment.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">2AC Salmon Addon</span>= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Salmon Phytoplankton blooms kill salmon</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">OPB 11 (Oregon Public Broadcasting, Tiny Algae Bloom By The Billions To Threaten Northwest Salmon, http://www.opb.org/news/article/tiny-algae-bloom-billions-threaten-northwest-salmon/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Right now coastal waters in the Northwest are a bustle - salmon are running,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">some extra notice to harvest their penned salmon before the blooms turn toxic.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Northwest salmon keystone species – decline ruins ecosystem</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hunt 2k (Ed, Environmental News Service, Salmon & Ecologics, “Ecosystem Keystone: Salmon support 137 other species, http://www.bluefish.org/keystone.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">More than 137 species of fish and wildlife - from orcas to caddisflies - depend</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">," said Cederholm. "But behind it, it's the whole ecosystem."</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Pacific Northwest Orcas depend on salmon</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Hawley 10Hawley, environmental journalist, 2010 (Steven, journalist, author of Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, “The Idaho Tide,” Summer, http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?&assetid=53761, LVS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Wolves are thriving in the Idaho woods for the same reason salmon should be –</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">provide ocean-derived nutrients for soils that nurture old-growth forests.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">National Wildlife Federation 06 (“Orcas on the Edge,” 10/1, [[http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">West Coast waters once were rich with wild salmon. The Columbia and Snake Rivers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Oceanic biodiversity prevents collapse of entire life system</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Cousteau 00 Cousteau, President, Ocean Futures Society, in 2000</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">[Jean-Michel, “What We Can't See Can Hurt Us,” Seattle Post-Intelligencer, 3/14 p. A11]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Loss of oceanic biodiversity means loss of genetic diversity. Losing species is like removing</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">have reached them. Out of sight is no longer out of mind.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">=</span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Negative </span>
----
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">=</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">2NRs</span>== 
======<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">State</span>====== 
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Round 1 vs. Bering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-Protect and Defend CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-Bio-D DA and Immigration DA as NB</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-Case dump</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">Round 3 vs. TOD</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-Case turn racism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">-Case dump</span>