<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>












=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cite Requests</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you want aff cites/full text, email nicolemoxley@gmail.com (she only respond if there's a cat picture)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you want neg cites/full text, email sahaana.sundar27@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We'll post all 1AC's and all 1NC cites. If you want block cites, just email us.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note: We're frankly quite lazy (especially Nicole) and really busy, so email us A LOT if we don't get back to you with cites. </span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We decide which aff we'll read before round, but it'll be one of the affs on this wiki.</span>
== == 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Hooch - Nextgen </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economy</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economy sucks right now- industries are bringing it down.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AP 9/27 (Associated Press, US economy grew at 1.3 percent rate in April-June quarter, weaker than previous estimate, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/us-economy-grew-at-13-percent-rate-in-april-june-quarter-weaker-than-previous-estimate/2012/09/27/d51062c6-08a5-11e2-9eea-333857f6a7bd_story.html]] , 9/27/12) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The growth rate was lowered from a previous estimate of 1.7 percent.....</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic lows increase the likelihood for global war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic collapse now causes WWIII</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hamer 3/6/10 (Prof Dr. Eberhard Hamer writes for Current Concerns, “Increasing Indications for a Third World War,” http://www.currentconcerns.ch/index.php?id=1012)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Due to the fact that the US has assumed the bank debts </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have multiple internal links cuz we ballin'</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1st is stimulus:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second is the aviation industry:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Implementation is key to economic growth</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">HUERTA 12 Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration [Michael P. Huerta; March 2012; “NextGen Implementation Plan]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WHy NextGeN MatteRS NextGen benefits everyone from frequent flyers to those who rarely travel by air. NextGen will provide a better travel experience, with fewer delays, more predictable trips</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nextgen solves: Even the pessimistic numbers show there will be a major economic boost</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bin Salam 12 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Based on these estimates, the total cost of accidents to the general aviation community in 2010 was about $1.449 bil- lion</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Third is jobs:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NextGen generates recovery through jobs and business efficiency</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calio 11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, “Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future,” http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with the president to improve the nation’s aging infrastructure</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Next is congestion:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NextGen ends airport congestion – boosting America’s economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schank 6/23</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Joshua L. Schank, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation, 6/23/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We often think of airports as local economic generators, and they are that, but some also have substantial national importance.</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First is China,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chinese aviation is growing now – It’s indicative of greater trends of maturity</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dawson. 2012.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kelly Dawson. 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm of a country's maturity. James Fallows' new book, China Airborne</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NextGen boosts the airline industry – they’ll invest in other systems</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Laing 6-14-12 (Keith; national political journalist; The Hill; “Obama: 'NextGen' air traffic control system a 'smart investment'”; [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/aviation/166373-obama-nextgen-air-traffic-control-system-a-smart-investment-]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">During President Obama's meeting of his Jobs and Competitiveness Council in swing state North Carolina this week, </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US avionics leadership is key to air power and conventional deterrence that prevents Chinese miscalculation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eaglen and Szaszdi 09 Research Fellow for National Security Mackenzie M. Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security and Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a former Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, 7-7-09, [“The Growing Air Power Fighter Gap: Implications for U.S. National Security,” Heritage Foundation, Produced by the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg2295.cfm] E. Liu</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China. China has ordered an estimated 76 Su30MKK Flanker-Gs and can produce an additional 250 under license, including at least 100 “knockdown kits” to be assembled in China.20 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aggression escalates --- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fisher, 10/31/2011 (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/#slide1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and China still fail to understand one another's nuclear weapons policies, according to a disturbing report by Global Security Newswire.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second is aerospace,</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline industry doing terribly now and Nextgen solves but only with FAA commitment</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kelly ’11 (Gary Kelly-CEO and executive of Southwest Airlines. “We Need 21st Century Air Traffic Control” April 27, 2011. [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/04/27/news/companies/air-traffic-control-modernization/index.htm]]) Rajiv</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It's been a tough decade for the U.S. airline industry. Over the past ten years, total financial losses have risen to more than $50 billion. Fuel costs are 4.5 times higher.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">GOMEZ et al 12 [Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy “Dependence on key customers”, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Demand in the aerospace market PCP’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of both Boeing Company (BA) and Airbus , which in turn depend upon deliveries of new aircraft.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">National Aerospace Week 10 (September 18, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren’t new, but are becoming more urgent. Developing a national strategy to ensure a robust industrial base and modernizing our military hardware must become frontburner priorities. T</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of arguably the greatest structural change in the global order yet endured, with this historical moment's most amazing feature being its relative and absolute lack of mass violence. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, US pursuit of hegemony is inevitable – only a question of effectiveness</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calleo, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, ‘10</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David P, “American Decline Revisited,” Survival, 52:4, 215 – 227)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is not easy for the United States. As its economic strength is increasingly challenged by relative decline, it clings all the more to its peerless military prowess.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The transition independently causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brzezinski 12(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, “After America”, Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single preeminent successor-- not even China. </span>
==== ==== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PLAN:</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should invest in upgrading air traffic control infrastructure to NextGen.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. [June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To maintain a competitive advantage in the international marketplace, the United States’ national airspace system </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is poised to face rising demand with limited additional capacity and outdated technology. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipagebecause thetechnology does not provide benefits unless the infrastructure and ATC procedures are in place to use i</span>


==Johns Creek== 
It's the same as hooch except with replaced the econ uniqueness card.

US Economy is on the brink of recession
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Presstv.ir 10/11(Oct 11; [[http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/266163.html]]; Abhishek)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. is heading towards fiscal disaster...</span>

==Carrollton== 
Replace econ uniqueness:
Econ low now – Hurricane Sandy has stopped growth
Reuters 11/15/12 [Reuters through the New York Times; November 15, 2012; Sagging Economic Data Reflect Storm’s Impact; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/16/business/economy/sagging-economic-data-reflect-storms-impact.html?_r=0]]; AG]
Hurricane Sandy drove ……… and Delaware.

Replace Dawson with:
Chinese Aviation Rising now
Lei 11-15 (Zhao Lei, citing Zhang Jian, deputy general manager of AVICEngine Holdings, “Aviation industry flies into the future” , 11-15-12, [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2012-11/15/content_15929573.htm]]) (Nanda)
China's national …….. contained by anyone else," Zhang said.


Replace Kelly 11 with:
Airline industry failing now – lack of competitiveness and federal support
Sullivan 4/24 (Bartholomew Sullivan, writer for the Scripps Howard News Service, “U.S. airline industry failing consumers, panel contends”, [[http://blog.lib.umn.edu/hhhevent/news/4.26.12_Republic_Oberstar_airline.pdf]], 4/24/12) (Nanda)
WASHINGTON - The American ……..years after deregulation

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 1.4em;">JV State</span>== 

Contention 1 is the North

FIRST IS RUSSIA


**Risk of conflict is high**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tassinari 9/7</span> Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck AND up the prospect of an Arctic race building up</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**The plan reverses this trend – a __clear__ signal is key to averting Arctic war**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dowd 11</span>– MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute

Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979]]</span>

__One reason a military presence will be necessary AND__ __a military confrontation, but to prevent one.__


**Russia won’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dawkins 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)//moxley//</span>

//__Russia, as it stands could make AND__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.</span>//


//**Those go nuclear**//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace, 10 </span>(Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fact is, </span>__the Arctic is becoming AND__ __because of climate change.”__//


//**Best scholarship proves our impact**//

//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murray 12</span>(Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)//



//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War **AND** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.</span>//


//**SECOND IS SPILLS**//

//**First, drilling is inevitable**//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Llanos 12</span>** (Miguel, “US claims 'unprecedented' success in test for new fuel source,” May 5th, 2012, http://usnews.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/05/05/11522433-us-claims-unprecedented-success-in-test-for-new-fuel-source?lite)//

//__Could the future of cleaner fossil fuel AND__ __resource while sequestering carbon dioxide."__//



//**Icebreaking prevents drilling accidents**//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones et al 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Professor @ UVA, Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University, member of the Defense Science Board, the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Corporation, the National Research Council Advisory Council for Policy and Global Affairs, and the MIT Corporation)</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U S </span>Coast Guard seeks to protect<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the AND </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">to be equipped wilh the latest technology for oil spill response</span>//


//**Prevents oil spills that cause methane pollution**//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schneider 12 </span>**(Conrad, Advocacy Director, Clean Air Task Force “Curb Methane Emissions,” http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/07/is-arctic-oil-drilling-ready-f.php?comments=expandall)//

//With Shell’simminent entrance<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> into Arctic waters AND</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> natural gas, in some cases by almost 100%.</span>//


//**Extinction**//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WWF 10 </span>**(“Drilling for Oil in the Arctic Too Soon Too Risky” http://worldwildlife.org/publications/drilling-for-oil-in-the-arctic-too-soon-too-risky)//

//The Arctic<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the subarctic </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">regions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> surrounding it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tested </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">means of responding effectively to a major spill.</span>//



//Contention 2 is the South//


//**The Antarctic Treaty is being undermined now.**//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VOXY 9-19-12</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Voxy News, “Antarctica may come under threat – UC” expert, The expert is Brian Storev of the University of Canterbury, September 19th, 2012, http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/antarctica-may-come-under-threat-uc-expert/5/135147)</span>//moxley

__The near pristine environment of Antarctica AND__ __from Antarctica within the next 36 years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? Dr Storey said.</span>


**The plan is key – US presence maintains the treaty**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley]]</span></span> *figure 2 excluded

__With the increased interest in Antarctica,AND__ **__their associated outlying field sites__**.


**That’s key to solve science diplomacy**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11,</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">T</span>he success of world co-operation based on science and practiced AND__ **__in decision-making on shared global interests."__**


**Solves a laundry list of impacts**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federoff 8 – </span>ina Fedoroff 8, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank you for this opportunity to discuss science diplomacy at the U.S. Department of State. The </span><span class="underline">U.S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. is recognized globally for its leadership in science and technology. AND </span>__new global efforts focus on__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> improving </span>//biological, chemical, and nuclear security//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by promoting and implementing best scientific practices as a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.</span>





**THE PLAN- The United States federal government should develop and deploy single purpose polar class icebreakers.**

Contention 3 is Solvency

**The plan is key – icebreaking capabilities are a prerequisite to polar presence**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//

//__The committee finds that both operations and maintenance AND__ <span style="font-size: 11px;">d with directed mission tasking.</span>//


//**We have a couple icebreakers but it’s not enough – we need additional funding.**//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PopMechanics 12-7</span> [Popular Mechanics, By Kalee Thompson; “Where Are America's Badly Needed Icebreakers?”; 12/7/2012; http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/navy-ships/where-are-americas-badly-needed-icebreakers-14829862?click=pm_latest; Boyce]//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When the heavy-duty icebreaker Polar Star pulls AND </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">second Chinese ship, a polar research vessel, is due to enter service in 2014.</span>//


//**Here’s a single distinction**//

//**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 12.5pt;">POAC 95 (</span>**13th International Conference on Port and Ocean Engineering under Arctic Condition, August15th - 18,1995 Murmansk, Russia, http://www.poac.com/Papers/POAC95_V4_all.pdf)//moxley

__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Initially the word </span>____<span style="color: black;">icebreaker </span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">was used AND I</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">cebreaking by herself in defined ice conditions.</span>__**


**The USFG is key**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley

__The committee was asked to consider alternative AND__ __“should be operated by the U.S. Coast Guard.”__


**Russia only respects shows of force – boosting the credibility of deterrence is key**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen, et al ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security; Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation; Jim Dolbow is a defense analyst and a member of the Editorial Board at the U.S. Naval Institute, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic,” The Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder No. 2202, 10-30-2008, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russian Ambitions. </span>**__Russia recognizes the__**__multifaceted AND__ __**irresolute and inadequate**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__This needs to change__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intel</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hooch</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1- Northview - NIB (State Budgets and Economy) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- Increase/Investment</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA(2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case D & Econ Turns(2NR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3- Houston County - Megaports (Trade, Terror, and Wind) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- Military/Security</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA(2NR) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Coercion DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case D (2NR) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 - Seqoyah - Natives (Self-Determination and Waste)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Coercion(2NR)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case D(2NR) </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1- Hooch KP- Port Security</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- security</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Elections DA (2NR)</span>
Coercion DA
Case D

Round 3- University School of Nashville - HSR
Russian Oil
Elections DA (2NR)
States CP
Case D (2NR)

===Carrolton=== 
Round 2 - Hooch - Port Security(Coast Guard, Attacks)
T-Security/Military
Fiscal Cliff(2NR)
Coercion
Case D(2NR)

Round 4 - Hooch - Port Security(again!!)(Coast Guard, Attacks)
T-Security/Military
Fiscal Cliff(2NR)
States CP
Coercion
Case D(2NR)

Round 5 - Roswell - Narrative 1AC
FRAMEWORK
CP - Reject the State w/ state bad NB(2NR)
Cap K

===Ohio Valley=== 
Round 1 vs. Westminster FS - Port Dredging
1NC: Devolution CP, Fiscal Cliff, Coercion
2NC: Coercion and Case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: Fiscal Cliff and Case

Round - 4 vs. St. Petersburg ?? - Alaska Ports
1NC: Icebreaking CP, Fiscal Cliff, Russia Oil DA
2NC: Icebreaking cp, russia oil and case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: Fiscal Cliff and case

Round - 6 vs. Seaholm ?? - Gas Tax
1NC: Coercion, Fiscal Cliff, and T
2NC: Coercion and case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff
2NR: Fiscal Cliff and case turns

===JV State=== 
Round 1 vs. Pace LR - Title IX
1NC: T-Loan Guarentees, HMT CP, Immigration, Complexity K
2NC: K
1NR: Case
2NR: K

Round 4 vs. Westminster AO - Port dredging
1NC: Devolution CP, Complexity, Politics
2NC: K
1NR: Case
2NR: K

Round 5 vs. Roswell MR - Port Dredging (again)
1NC: Devolution CP, Complexity, Politics
2NC: Politics
1NR: Case
2NR: PTX and Case
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- Increase</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Increase” refers to a mandate, not a potential result</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">HEFC 4 (Higher Education Funding Council, [[http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/1]] 67/167we98.htm# n43)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">9.1 The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the principal regulator to do all that it "reasonably can to meet the compliance objective in relation to the charity".[ 45] The Draft Bill defines the compliance objective as</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- Investment</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Infrastructure investment” is spending in the sector</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jimenez 95 (Immanuel, Appointed Director of Public Sector Evaluations – Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group, “Human and Physical Infrastructure: Public Investment and Pricing Policies in Developing Countries”, Handbook of Development Economics, Vol. III, Ed. Behrman and Srinivasan, p. 2774)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Introduction and overview</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Almost by definition, infrastructure is the basis for development. 1 For an economy, it is the foundation on which the factors of production interact in order to produce output.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T- Military/Security</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Musick 10 (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources: transportation and water. Those types of infrastructure share the economic characteristics of being relatively capital intensive and producing services under public management that facilitate private economic activity</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DA's </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DA- Coercion</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The funding for the aff is coercively obtained -- the government uses its influence and strength to force citizens to finance transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rothbard, 2—dean of the Austrian School of economics (Murray N., “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)//EM]]=</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The State indeed performs many important and necessary functions: from provision of law to the supply of police and fire fighters, to building and maintaining the streets,</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Petro, ‘74 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 48]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Each new step of coercion must be resisted – it moves us one step further along the road of oppression</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Browne, 1995 (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, Why Government Doesn’t Work, p.65-66)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Escalation Each increase in coercion is easier to justify</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No value to life under coercion</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Raz, Philosopher, 1986(Joseph, The Morality of Freedom, page 307)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One way to test the thesis of the primacy of action reasons is to think of a person who is entirely passive and is continuously led, cleaned, and pumped full with hashn</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DA - Elections (RIP)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama will win – key states, electoral votes, Nate Silver, and intrade</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LOBE 9 – 8 – 12 Washington Bureau Chief of the international news agency Inter Press Service (IPS), JD Berkeley [Jim Lobe, U.S.: Advantage Obama As Election Begins in Earnest, [[http://www.ipsnews.net/2012/09/u-s-advantage-obama-as-election-begins-in-earnest/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite persistent high levels of unemployment and some 60 percent of the electorate telling pollsters that the country is headed “in the wrong direction”, most political analysts believe that </span>
==== ==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Funding transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they fear wasteful planning and don’t see the upside.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Orski 12 [Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge. Unlike traditional utilities, roads and bridges have no rate payers to fall back on. Politicians and the public seem to attach a low priority to fixing aging transportation infrastructureand this translates into a lack of support</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">GOP win causes Iran War</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jonathan Curiel 10, Prof of Journalism @ UCLA, 7-28-2010, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,”http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AIlWa6eGDQcJ:trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/2010/07/28/what-just-might-happen-if-obama-loses-in-2012/+If+Obama+losses+2012&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">War in Iran: The Republicans’ ascension marks the return of chickenhawk diplomacy. Instead of the Obama administration’s reasoned approach to Iran, .</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strikes cause Middle East war and oil shocks</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Petras 12/15/05 (James, former Professor of Sociology at Binghamton University, "Israel's War with Iran: The Coming Mid East Conflagration Or Israel Bombs Iran: The US Suffers the Consequences," http://www.thestruggle.org/petras.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US then</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear Wars</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Primakov 9 [September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in terms of its potential for spreading globally. During the Cold War, amid which the Arab-Israeli conflict evolved, the two opposingsuperpowers</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Independently, Oil shocks risk extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Roberts 04 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The obsessive focus on oil is hardly surprising, given the stakes. In the fast-moving world of oil politics, oil is not simply a source of world power, but a medium</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DA - Russia Oil</span>=== 


Oil prices will be high now - demand is up
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rapier 6/11/12</span>(Robert, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President for Merica International, chemical engineer, worked on cellulosic ethanol, butanol production, oil refining, natural gas production, and gas-to-liquids, “Future Direction of Oil Prices May See a Major Shift”, 6/28/12, Consumer Energy Report, [[http://www.consumerenergyreport.com/2012/06/11/future-direction-of-oil-prices-may-see-a-major-shift/]]) ALT
There are a number of factors working<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the opposite direction</span>


(Specific Link) HSR ends oil dependency- fueled on renewable sources.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USHER 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(US High Speed Rail Association, “ ENERGY SECURITY”, January 2012, [[http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html]]) ALT</span>
A national high speed rail system ends our oil dependency quickly & permanently. Building an electrically-powered national high speed rail network across


US oil independence will crush global oil prices
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flavin 2K</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Acting President of the Worldwatch Institute [Christopher Flavin, “The Real Price of Oil,” International Herald Tribune, September 2000, pg. http://www.worldwatch.org/real-price-oil]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As oil prices hit their highest levels in a decade, and politicians from Paris to Washington..... in the north.</span>


High prices are key to Russian growth --- investment, inflation, stock prices, and the Russian ruble.
**Kramer 11** (Andrew, Journalist @ the New York Times, //Russia Cashes In on Anxiety Over Supply of Middle East Oil//, March 7th, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/08/business)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW — </span>__Whatever the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">eventual </span>__outcome of the Arab world’s__ social __upheaval__, __there is a clear economic winner so far__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: Vladimir V. </span>__Putin__. __Russia__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which pumps more oil than Saudi Arabia, </span>__i......__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pipeline gas to Europe.</span>



Economic collapse causes extinction.
**David 99** (Stephen, Professor of Political Science @ Johns Hopkins, Foreign Affairs, //Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars//, January/February, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">RUSSIAN DRIFT </span>__At no time__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since the civil war of 1918 -- 20 </span>__h......__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Russian </span>__civil war__.

===DA - Fiscal Cliff=== 
There will be a deal now – but bipartisanship and Obama are key.
<span style="font-size: 90%;">NY Times 11-7 </span><span style="font-size: 80%;">[By JONATHAN WEISMAN and JACKIE CALMES; “Boehner Strikes Conciliatory Tone in Talk of Fiscal Cliff”; 11/7/2012; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/08/us/politics/back-to-bargaining-table-with-fiscal-cliff-dead-ahead.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0]]; Boyce]</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">The House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, striking a conciliatory tonea day after the Republican Party’s electoral drubbing, said on Wednesday that he was ready to accept a budget ...........freeing ourselves from foreign oil.”</span>

Transportation funding breeds partisanship.
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Freemark 1/25</span><span style="font-size: 80%;"> (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock ............ perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Failure wrecks the economy – best study proves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AP 11-8</span> <span style="font-size: 80%;">[By ANDREW TAYLOR; “'Fiscal Cliff' Would Send Economy Back Into Recession: CBO”; 11/8/2012; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/08/fiscal-cliff-recession_n_2094544.html]]; Boyce]</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">WASHINGTON -- A new government report says the so-called fiscal cliff would send the economy back into recession and cause a spike in the jobless rate to 9.1 percent by next........... for the long-term unemployed are extended.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kemp 10</span> <span style="font-size: 80%;">Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center, served in the White House under Ronald Reagan, special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council Staff, Former Director, Middle East Arms Control Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first scenario; everything that can go wrong does go wrong. The world economic situation weakens....... with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.</span>
===DA - Immigration=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Immigration will pass now and Obama is working on the bill.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">NYT 1-12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Julia Preston, New York Times Staff; Obama Will Seek Citizenship Path in One Fast Push; 1 – 12 – 13; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/13/us/politics/obama-plans-to-push-congress-on-immigration-overhaul.html?_r=0]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama plans to push Congress ………………….one of the “difficult missions” the country must take on.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Transportation funding breeds partisanship.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/25</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Obama barely mentions the need for ………………………………. do much more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Capital key to passage – unforeseen events could change it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">SHIFTER 12 – 27 – 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">PRESIDENT of the Inter-American Dialogue & adjunct professor of Latin American politics at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service [Michael Shifter, Will Obama Kick the Can Down the Road?, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=3186]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Not surprisingly, Obama has been explicit that reforming ……………………………and political capital -- twisting some arms, even in his own party. Resistance will not disappear.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Los Angeles Times, 11/9/2012</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Comprehensive immigration reform will see **………………………**. they still see the immigration opportunity as a bigger plus than not," he said.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Schaffer</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Spring **2002** (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Washington's increased interest in India since the late 1990s reflects ……………….. to assume a stronger leadership role in the world and to maintain an economy that lifts its people out of poverty depends critically on good relations with the United States.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans </span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Natives </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The fifty-states should provide block grants to Indian Country for transportation Infrastructure.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States can solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(McLawhorn 04, Nina McLawhorn, “State DOTs and Native American Nations”, Transportation Synthesis Report, 1/27/04, [[http://wisdotresearch.wi.gov/wp-content/uploads/tsrnativeamerican1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Request for Report State governments have a unique relationship with the Native American nations within their borders. The federal government has recognized Native American tribes</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NIB</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The Fifty States and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should establish state infrastructure banks to NIB.</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solves for funding- create a more efficient allocation of funds for transportation projects</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Slone 2011 (Sean, transportation policy analyst at The Council of State Governments“ State Infrastructure Banks ” July 5 The knowledge Center: The Council of State Governments, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-infrastructure-banks AS)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">State infrastructure banks can help states stretch theirstate and federal dollars and meet the demands of financing large, impactful, long-term infrastructure projects.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">HSR States Card</span>==== 
Multi-state compacts already exist and can create dedicated funding
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Puentes ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Insfrastructure Initiative (Robert, “Intermetropolitan Passenger Rail: Considerations for State Legislatures” – April 9th – http://www.brookings.edu/research/speeches/2010/04/09-rail-transportation-puentes)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The next point is that ....g three investments.</span>


====Narrative CP==== 
**Text: My partner and I advocate <span style="font-family: Calibri;">a brand of politics capable of challenging the violent norms of the status quo</span>**

Governmental reforms only give people a stake in the survival of an oppressive state and undermine efforts to change.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">S.E.C. 1998 </span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">(Spunk Editorial Collective, Last Modified June 5 http://www.spunk.org/library/intro/faq/sp001761.txt)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Reformists also tend to objectify the people whom they are "helping;" they envision them as helpless, formless masses who need the wisdom and guidance .......... who won't let them "help" them.</span>

REFUSAL OF THE STATE ALLOWS US TO BREAK ITS DOMINATION AND PREVENT THE DESTRUCTION OF LIFE ON EARTH—IT’S THE ONLY HOPE
BERES <span style="text-decoration: none;">1994 (</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Louis Rene, Prof of International Law at Purdue, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Spring)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">In giving ourselves over completely to national self-determination, we commit a grievous form of idolatry. Allegedly offering ourselves to a "higher cause," .............. It can be found only in diminishing the claims of the State herd.</span>

====Devolution CP==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Text: </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The United States federal government should:</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">-- devolve all control over port dredging to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on [port dredging] to the states to fund the plan.</span>

-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in port dredging.

--grant states permission to transfer ownership port dredging to the private sector.



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Edwards, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Decentralizing Infrastructure Financing</span>



<span style="font-size: 80%;"> The U.S. economy needs infrastructure, but state and local governments and the private sector ..........., as Canada has done with very favorable results.31</span>

====Icebreaking CP==== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The President of the United States should issue a Presidential Decision Directive mandating that the United States Coast Guard should invest polar icebreakers to maintain and support United States waters.</span>**

The plan is key – Naval presence is key to have access to Arctic trade – key to trade leadership and competiveness
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke et al. 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 80%;">Disruptions to global shipping and commercial ports resulting from climate change will present ........ U.S. economicand other interests in the Arctic.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The PDD is the key.</span>//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)</span>//moxley
<span style="font-size: 80%;">The committee finds that both operations and maintenance of the polar..............a Presidential Decision Directive should be issued to clearly align agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.</span>

====HMT CP==== 
Repealing HMT is key to sustainable SSS
**Frittelli, 11**—Specialist in Transportation policy (John, “Can Marine Highways Deliver”, Congressional Research Service, 1/14/11, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41590.pdf)//JLip
__Policymakers have been discussing AND__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">such a degree that it cannot compete with truck and rail.</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Capitalism Kritik=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Only asserting our politics of truth can solve for the social exclusion they outline</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dean,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Associate Professor of Political Theory at Hobart & William Smith, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Jodi, Zizek against Democracy, jdeanicite.typepad.com/i_cite/files/zizek_against_ democracy_new_version.doc – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This right-wing detour, then, emphasizes Zizek’s notion of universal partisan Truth, ……………….. intact, but the very political tactics chosen are those conducive to the deterritorializing flows of global capital.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Transportation discourse widens economic gaps and immobilizes the poor – sociospatial polarization and road pricing enable the wealthy to control space and suppress poor classes – leads to stigmas that cause cycles of disempowerment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Guy 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Baeten, professor of human geography at Lund university in Sweden, “The tragedy of the highway: empowerment, disempowerment and the politics of sustainability discourses and practices,” European planning studies, 2000, http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=920131e5-c7ae-4bbc-9abe-9e050a96809c%40sessionmgr111&vid=1&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=aph&AN=2969956)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Transport inequalities, transport exclusion and transport poverty are social issues in transport planning ………………….. put high on the agenda, it may force itself on to the political platform very soon by means other than words. (Swyngedouw, 1993, p. 324) </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Capitalism leads to nuclear war because of the focus on maximizing profit </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Webb 4</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (“War, capitalism, and George W. Bush” SAM is the NATIONAL CHAIRMAN, COMMUNIST PARTY USA http:// www.peoplesworld.org/war-capitalism-and-george-w-bush) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We are living in a fragile and unstable world. But perhaps that has always been …………………….that occurs depends in large measure on the outcome of political struggle within and between classes and social movements at the national and international level.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Our alternative is to vote negative as a crucial step to break down capitalism. An attack on capitalism would cause a paradigm shift necessary to overthrow capitalism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kovel 02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Joel, Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, The Enemy of Nature: The End of Capitalism or the End of the World? pg 223-224) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Revolutions become feasible when a people decides that their present social arrangements ………………….. to be expressed as functions of lived life? And how can the path towards an ecosocialism that is not sharply defined incorporate the goal towards which it moves? </span>

===Complexity Kritik=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chaos theory dictates transportation- have to consider complexity in building and maintaining infrastructure. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kockelman and Frazier, 2004 – Frazier is a graduate student researcher at UT, while Kockelman is an assistant professor of civil engineering at UT (Kara and Christopher, “Chaos Theory and Transportation Systems: An Instructive Example”, 9/17/04, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ce.utexas.edu/prof/kockelman/public_html/trb04chaos.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This paper was motivated by a hypothesis that transportation systems are often chaotic. The difficulty with this …………………………. that many systems harbor almost infinite complexity, and that complexity may be best addressed through application of chaos theory. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Only moving away from predictive models can address multiple extinction level impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gell-Mann, 97 – Murray, Nobel Laureate in Physics and professor at the Santa Fe Institute and co-chairman of the Science Board (“Chapter 1: The Simple and the Complex,” //Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security//, ed. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University, http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_Complexity_Global.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">At this conference, issues of global politics and security will be addressed, including ………………………. a crude look at the whole, treating global security and global politics as parts of a very general set of questions about the future.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to Vote Negative to __reject linear scenario planning__ in favor of complex __theoretical__ analysis—__unconditionally__ inserting complexity analysis into the simulation creates better policy planning</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rosenau, professor emeritus of international affairs – George Washington University, ‘97</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(James, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In short, there are strict limits within which theorizing based on the premises of complexity ……………………..unfamiliar realms. Hence, through its explication, the complexity perspective can serve as a guide both to comprehending a fragmegrated world and theorizing within its limits.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>