[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC== 

===Greenhill=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should remove the cost-share waiver and increase its investment in port transportation infrastructure through the Port Security Grants Program by $400 million.**

**==Advantage One: Terrorism==**
**Advantage One is Terrorism**


**====DHS failure makes nuclear terrorism via seaports inevitable====**
**Thompson et al ~’**12 – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively (New York Times, Cargo, the Terrorists~’ Trojan Horse, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
Millions of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
logistically and diplomatically, to comply with the law. This is unacceptable.


**====**

**Now is critical—Terrorist groups are close to acquiring full scale nuclear weapons====**
SSN ’11
Seaport Security News, An Independent research group studying the efficiency of American seaports, "Leaked Documents Show Terrorist~’s Goals" February 3, 2011, ([[http://www.seaportsecuritynews.com/?p=268-http://www.seaportsecuritynews.com/?p=268]])
Evidence of terror plots paired with reasonable speculation among security experts point to the
AND
efforts on behalf of the Department of Homeland Security have been a failure.


Terrorists have dirty bombs
**Parfomak and Frittelli- 07** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul W. Parfomak and John Frittelli¶ Resources, Science, and Industry Division of the Congressional Research Service; Maritime Security:¶ Potential Terrorist Attacks¶ and Protection Priorities; Congressional Research Service; January 9, 2007, http://www.aau.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl33787.pdf)</span>
Terrorist attacks on U.S. ports with radiological dispersion devices ("dirty"¶
AND
" before terrorists with dirty bombs successfully attack a U.S. port


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">====Your defense doesn~’t apply—A dirty bomb is easy to construct and enough to cause retaliation====</span>
**Bunn et al ~’12**
Bunn, Matthew, and Yuri Morozov, Rolf Mowatt-Larrsen, Simon<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Saradzhyan, William Tobey, Viktor I. Yesin, and Pavel S.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Zolotarev. 2011. "The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment of<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Nuclear Terrorism". Non-partisan, International Report for Belfer Center for Science and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, and Institute for<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>U.S. and Canadian Studies
Radiological dispersal devices simply spread radioactive material over an area—they cannot ¶ destroy
AND
¶ the dirty bomb itself would also be a far smaller technical challenge.



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">====Err aff—Terrorists already have nuclear material and it~’s difficult to stop a plot====</span>
**Bunn et al ~’12**
Bunn, Matthew, and Yuri Morozov, Rolf Mowatt-Larrsen, Simon<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Saradzhyan, William Tobey, Viktor I. Yesin, and Pavel S.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Zolotarev. 2011. "The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment of<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Nuclear Terrorism". Non-partisan, International Report for Belfer Center for Science and<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, and Institute for<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>U.S. and Canadian Studies
It is uncertain whether there is an active al-Qaeda nuclear plot, but
AND
two decades serve as an important metric in assessing global standards of nuclear security



Scenario 1: Retaliation
**Scenario 1: Retaliation**
**It~’s not a question of if but when terrorists will use a nuclear weapon**
**Toukan ~’6**
Michael Intriligator, Professor of Economics, Political Science, and Public Policy at UCLA and Abdullah Toukan, PhD from MIT in Theoretical Nuclear Physics and former Science Advisor to King Hussein of Jordan, Countering Terrorism and WMD: Creating a Global Counter-Terrorism Network, Ed. Peter Kotana, Michael Intriligator, and John P. Sullivan, 2006, pg. 74-5
Overall, while there has been remarkably little historical use of WMD by terrorists and
AND
before such weapons, including nuclear weapons, become available to terrorist groups.


**One successful attack snowballs**
**Ferguson ~’5**
Charles D. Ferguson, Science and Technology Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and an Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, William C. Potter is Institute Professor and Director of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism, 2005, pg. 29-30
The lack of a precedent stands out as a major deterrent to nuclear terrorism by
AND
moderate response, the perceived taboo against such terrorist methods might erode considerably.


**Nuclear terrorism causes nuclear retaliation results in extinction**
Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (Robert, "After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects," Studies in Conflict %26 Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response.



Even if it fails, it escalates to extinction
Sid-Ahmed 4<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed; former member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Egypt, leading member of the National Progressive Unionist Party, and leading journalist for Al-Ahmar; Accessed June 25, 2012; http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm; Written August 26, 2004; "Extinction%21")</span>
The advent of the nuclear age, which began when America dropped two atom bombs
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

**===Scenario 2: Protectionism===**
**Terrorist attack on ports results in instant global protectionism**
**Flynn 3** – Ph.D., Professor at the Kostas Institute for Security Studies @ Northeastern (Stephen, The Fragile State of Container Security, http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman and Gary Hart in preparing
AND
—as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.



**Rampant protectionism spurs economic collapse and great power war**
**Panzer ~’8**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Micheal Panzner, faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase. Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138.</span>
Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.


Economic interdependence solves war—empirical studies prove
Hillebrand ~’10 ~~[Evan E. Hillebrand (Professor of Diplomacy at University of Kentucky and a Senior Economist for the Central Intelligence Agency) ~’10 "Deglobalization Scenarios: Who Wins? Who Loses?" Global Economy Journal, Volume 10, Issue 22010, CMR~~]
A long line of writers from Cruce (1623) to Kant (1797)
AND
for more fractious relations among states and the probability for interstate war rises.

<span class="underline">__==Advantage Two: Economy==__</span>

**====Advantage 2 is the Economy ====**

**====Port infrastructure is insufficient to meet demand====**
**PTI ~’12**
"US port infrastructure ranked behind Iceland and Estonia" January 12, 2012 http://www.porttechnology.org/news/us_port_infrastructure_ranked_behind_iceland_and_estonia/
The condition of port infrastructure in the United States was further realized this week with
AND
don~’t, we will only fall further behind the rest of the world."




**====Efficient port infrastructure is key to US competitiveness====**
**Barnes** 200**4** – Queensland University of Technology, School of International Business (Paul and Richard, Assurance of security in maritime supply chains: Conceptual issues of vulnerability and crisis management, http://www.sciencedirect.com.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/science/article/pii/S1075425305000694)
Effective and efficient systems of transportation are critical to domestic and international business. Along
AND
repair services (U.S. Dept. of Transportation, 2002).





Investment in port infrastructure is key to growth
Nagle, 11 — President and Chief Exectuive Officer, American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt, "Port-related infrastructure investments propel prosperity", Summer Edition, [[www.aapa-ports.org/Publications/SeaportsDetail.cfm?itemnumber=18152~~%23seaportsarticle4-http://www.aapa-ports.org/Publications/SeaportsDetail.cfm?itemnumber=18152]]) // NK
As the primary gateway for overseas trade, seaports are a critical link for access
AND
customers enjoy efficient, reliable and competitive transportation access in the years ahead.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">====</span>

Relative decline leads to power transitions that escalate globally – growth differential is key====
Tellis 9 Senior Associate @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense and Asian strategic issues. (Ashley J. Tellis (Research Director of the Strategic Asia program @ National Bureau of Asian Research, "Preserving Hegemony: The Strategic Tasks Facing the United States," Global Asia, Vol.4, No. 1, Spring 2009)
Precisely because the desire for dominance is likely to remain a permanent feature of US
AND
, cultivation of key allied support and attentiveness to the views of others.

==

Power transitions causes the U.S. to become uncooperative and desperate-hegemonic wars ensue as the U.S. tries to maintain its power status ====
Goldstein 7 Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania (Avery Goldstein, "Power transitions, institutions, and China~’s rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence," Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 %26 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682)
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for
AND
the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

==

Transition to multipolarity destroys international cooperation and shatters framework for effective global governance====
Schweller 9 Professor of political science @ Ohio State University (Randall L. Schweller, "Ennui Becomes Us," The National Interest, 12.16.2009, pg. http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22598)
As power devolves throughout the international system, new actors will emerge and develop to
AND
anything more than an apparition, will die a slow but sure death.

==

Extinction====
Nye 90 - Former assistant secretary of defense and president of Harvard~’s Kennedy school of government (Joseph, Bound To Lead: The Changing Nature Of American Power 1990, p. 16-17)

Some suggest that the current debate on American decline should be regarded as a register
AND
50,000 nuclear weapons, history as we know it may end.


Solvency

Contention 4 is Solvency

Current security is uncoordinated – PSPG investment solves
Logistics Management 2010<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ("U.S. Port Security: A work in progress" Logistics Management 7/10 ProQuest 6/20/12)</span>
Port authorities contend that without a method of enforcement, supply chain security has little
AND
plans and funding should be made available for resiliency and business continuity projects."

==

**Universal screening is possible and necessary====**
**Thompson ~’**12 – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively (New York Times, Cargo, the Terrorists~’ Trojan Horse, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
An attack on an American port could cause tens of thousands of deaths and cripple
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

==

Federal coordination is key====
Harrald 05<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[John R, "Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction," Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12~~]</span>
The threat is real. Terrorist organizations have demonstrated access to maritime commerce at all
AND
and TSA must be effectively managed to avoid dysfunctional and costly turf battles.


===Glenbrooks plan text:=== 
The United States federal government should increase its investment in port security.

=Negative= 
==T/Procedurals== 
===T - Road or Rail=== 
A. Our interpretation is that transportation infrastructure means roads or rail
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UK DOT 7</span>** (United Kingdom Department of Transport, “Funding Transport Infrastructure for Strategically Significant Developments”, http://assets.dft.gov.uk/publications/funding-transport-infrastructure-for-strategically-significant-developments/devconguideline.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3.3 In the context of these guidelines, </span>**__“__**__transport infrastructure” is defined as an enhancement to surface access__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(primarily </span>road or rail**__)__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> identified through a transport assessment.</span>
==== ==== 

===T- Throughout=== 
A. Interpretation and violation – Topical Affs must invest __throughout__ the U.S.
“In” means “throughout”
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Words and Phrases 8</span> (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, </span>**__the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout”__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>
“United States” means all of the states
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA 6</span> (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006, [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U]])
**__United States When used in the__** **__geographic sense, means all of the States__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1019&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=ORG|Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics ]]: [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1&P_DATA_ID=11722&P_VERSION=1&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=INFO|Commercial Chemical Control Rules]][[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.navigate_term?p_term_id=292529&p_term_cd=TERMDIS|Term Detail]]</span>
==== ==== 

===T-Mandate=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Interpretation – “Increase” refers to a mandate, not a potential result</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">HEFC 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Higher Education Funding Council, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/1]]</span> 67/167we98.htm# n43)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the principal regulator</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, the obligation could be considered to be ever-increasing.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">“Infrastructure investment” is spending in the transportation sector</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jimenez 95</span>** (Immanuel, Appointed Director of Public Sector Evaluations – Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group, “Human and Physical Infrastructure: Public Investment and Pricing Policies in Developing Countries”, Handbook of Development Economics, Vol. III, Ed. Behrman and Srinivasan, p. 2774)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Almost by definition, infrastructure is the basis for development</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">detail the basic theoretical concepts underlying them</span>

===T-Underlying Structures=== 
Interpretation –
First, increase doesn’t require pre-existence
**Words and Phrases 8** [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “Increase,” Volume 20B, p. 263-267 March 2008, Thomson West]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The granting of compensation to any officer after </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">compensation of a public officer during his term of office. </span>


Transportation infrastructure must be the underlying structures like building a road not accessories to a road like new road signs.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Trimbath 11 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Susanne, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in Economics, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">US Chamber.com [website of the US Chamber of Commerce], former Senior Research Economist in the Capital Market Studies at the Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce, PhD in economics from NYU, 2011, “Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, alp)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce for the </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Railways • Waterways (Ports) • Intermodal Links</span>

===T-Increase=== 
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Interpretation – “Increase” means to make greater and requires pre-existence</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Buckley 6 </span>(Jeremiah, Attorney, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, the court said that the ordinary meaning of the word </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">to increases of an already-existing policy</span>

===T-TI excludes communication=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Our interpretation is that transportation infrastructure means roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail-- Energy and water are distinct categories.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Chapman 11</span> (Chapman and Cutler LLP, “The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank”, Client Alert, 9-29, http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Eligibility for financial assistance must be demonstrated</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">enhancements for public and commercial buildings</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">That excludes communication</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Babson 11 (Adam, Senior Portfolio Analyst – Russell Research, “Structuring a Listed Infrastructure Portfolio”, May, http://www.openworldinvesting.com/files/ow_listed_infra_article.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">While the global infrastructure universe </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">higher-beta, competitively exposed companies).</span>


===T-TI excludes Military=== 
Transportation infrastructure is strictly defined as facilities of transport--this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support
Musick ‘10
(Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Although different definitions of "infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">following Hurricane Katrina </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in 2005).</span>

===T-TI excludes vehicles=== 
<span style="font-size: 10px;">“Transportation infrastructure” is transport networks, not vehicles</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">GC 12 (Global Cargo & Commodities Limited, “Haulage & Transport”, http://www.globalcargogh.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=44&Itemid=132)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The field of transport</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> has several </span>
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">considered part of the operations.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">transportation infrastructure means roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail-- Energy and water are distinct categories.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Chapman 11</span> (Chapman and Cutler LLP, “The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank”, Client Alert, 9-29, http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Eligibility for financial assistance must be demonstrated</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">enhancements for public and commercial buildings</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12px;">T-TI excludes pipelines</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 12px;">transportation infrastructure means roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail-- Energy and water are distinct categories.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Chapman 11</span> (Chapman and Cutler LLP, “The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank”, Client Alert, 9-29, http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10px;">Eligibility for financial assistance must be demonstrated</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">enhancements for public and commercial buildings</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">That excludes pipelines</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Babson 11 (Adam, Senior Portfolio Analyst – Russell Research, “Structuring a Listed Infrastructure Portfolio”, May, http://www.openworldinve</span>sting.com/files/ow_listed_infra_article.pdf)

While the global __infrastructure__ universe
AND

higher-beta, competitively exposed companies).

===Framework=== 
The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the USFG is the agent of the resolution, not the individual debaters

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webster’s 2k</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing – 2000, [[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Use of a colon before a list or an explanation </span>
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">colon with a capital letter.</span>

Should denotes an expectation of enacting a plan
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">American Heritage Dictionary 2k </span>[www.dictionary.com]

Used to express<span style="font-size: 8pt;">probability or </span>expectation

The USfg is the government in Washington D.C.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Encarta 2k</span> [Microsoft Encarta Online Encyclopedia 2000([[http://encarta.msn.com/|http://encarta.msn.com]])]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">“The federal government of the United States is centered in Washington DC.”</span>


==DA== 
===Oil=== 

The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil importer – the plan will devastate global oil producers’ economies
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miller ‘10</span>—assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma (Gregory D., April 2010, © Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly 33:2, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence,” http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Miller.pdf
The United States only gets about 15 percent of its oil from the Middle East
AND
, even those that do not sell much oil to the United States.
Saudi Arabia will flood the oil market if they perceive a reduction in US demand – crushes oil prices
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Energy Tech Stocks ‘8</span> 1-27-2008 (“Petro-politics Expert Marcel: Saudis Have Oil But Not Enough; OPEC May Flood Market To Hurt New Techs,” http://energytechstocks.com/)
Saudi Arabia still has a lot of oil; nevertheless, the world doesn’t have
AND
industry, the world keeps asking, “Why should we trust them?”
It snowballs - flood crushes other oil producers including Russia
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mohamedi ‘3</span> – Chief Economist at PFC Energy (Fareed Mohamedi, Chief Economist, The Petroleum Finance Company Ltd.,” In the Wake of War: Geo-strategy, Terrorism, Oil Markets, and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.mepc.org/forums_chcs/31.asp]]
A more aggressive strategy and actually a better strategy for the Saudis in many ways
AND
of low oil price for a period of 18 months to two years.

Russian collapse causes nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Filger ‘9</span> – Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” online: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html
The Medvedev/Putin regime has initiated a host of policy responses to mitigate the
AND
the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.



===Elections=== 
====Greenhill UQ==== 
Obama will win, he’s slightly ahead in key swing states – prefer this evidence – it comes from credible pollsters
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver 9/20</span> [Nate, Genius, The New York Times, A Wild Day in the Polls, but Obama ends up ahead, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/20/sept-19-a-wild-day-in-the-polls-but-obama-ends-up-ahead/]
By the end of Wednesday, however, it was clear that the preponderance of
AND
, he led by 5.8 percentage points between these 16 surveys.

====WEast UQ==== 
Obama win now – incumbent advantage, predictions market, economic improvements, and likely voters
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bocelli 10/11</span> [Thursday, October 11, 2012 Costas Bocelli, “Will Obama Win Re-Election?
“, http://www.ifii.com/articles/697663147/will-obama-win-re-election]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In fact, I tend to cast my presidential vote with little regard </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">destined to four more years in the White House</span>
The plan is massively unpopular – collapses Obama win

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orski 12 </span>Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.
Romney election derails fiscal cliff compromise and collapses the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Britt 12</span> Russ Britt, Los Angeles Bureau Chief at MarketWatch from Dow Jones, columnist, 9/6/12 Obama re-election needed to avoid fiscal cliff, Democrats say September 6, 2012, 12:39 PM http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/09/06/obama-re-election-needed-to-avoid-fiscal-cliff-democrats-say/
Democratic leaders said Thursday they are confident that both parties in Congress can avoid going
AND
lame-duck would be a terrible thing to waste,” he said.
The impact is nuclear conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burrows and Harris 9</span> Mathew J. Burrows (counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC), PhD in European History from Cambridge University) and Jennifer Harris (a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit) April 2009 “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

===Florida Elections=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Obama is slightly ahead in ohio and florida</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lightman 10/11 (David Lightman, McClathy Newspapers, The News Tribune, “New polls show Obama maintaining slim lead in most swing states”, 10/11/12, http://www.thenewstribune.com/2012/10/11/2328230/new-polls-show-obama-maintaining.html) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">New polls out Thursday showed that </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">call. The president holds his lead in Virginia."</span>

Florida hates HSR – also turns the case
**DeHaven 11--**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> budget analyst on federal and state budget issues for the Cato Institute. Previously he was a deputy director of the Indiana Office of Management and Budget (Tad, “High-Speed Rail and Federalism,” CATO, 5/11/11, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/high-speed-rail-and-federalism/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Florida Governor Rick Scottdeserves a big round of applause </span>

AND
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">their state’s high-speed boondoggle-in-the-works.</span>

Florida key to the election-swings the electoral college
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohen 10/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Cohen, election correspondent @NY Daily News, “It's the electoral college, stupid”, 10/11/12, http://www.nydailynews.com/blogs/the_rumble/2012/10/its-the-electoral-college-stupid]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We were at a lunch talking about the 2012 election, and my interlocutor said that </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ohio only compounds the impediments to a Romney win.</span>


The plan is massively unpopular – collapses Obama win

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Orski 12 [</span>Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

Romney election derails fiscal cliff compromise and collapses the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Britt 12</span> Russ Britt, Los Angeles Bureau Chief at MarketWatch from Dow Jones, columnist, 9/6/12 Obama re-election needed to avoid fiscal cliff, Democrats say September 6, 2012, 12:39 PM http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/09/06/obama-re-election-needed-to-avoid-fiscal-cliff-democrats-say/
Democratic leaders said Thursday they are confident that both parties in Congress can avoid going
AND
lame-duck would be a terrible thing to waste,” he said.

The impact is nuclear conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burrows and Harris 9</span> Mathew J. Burrows (counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC), PhD in European History from Cambridge University) and Jennifer Harris (a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit) April 2009 “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.



===Renewables Trade Off=== 
US is leading the clean-tech race now
<span class="cite">Swartz 11 [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">Jon, May, “Big companies aggressively jump into clean tech,” 5/25/11, [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/2011-05-25-green-tech-investing_n.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 85%;">A few years ago, investing in green </span>
<span style="font-size: 85%;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 85%;">picture" in energy use, he says.</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Plan Trades off-it undercuts the political will for renewables</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parfomak and Folger 7 [</span>*Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Resources, Science, and Industry Division, **Specialist in Energy Policy R**esources, Science, and Industry Division, Paul and Peter, CRS Report for Congress, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues,” Scholar]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">In addition to these issues, Congress </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px;">of energy and environmental policies</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clean tech leadership averts global war-independently turns warming and economy</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Klarevas 9</span> [Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]</span>”, Huffington Post, 12-15, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html]]]
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">By not addressing climate change more </span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 15px;">keep potential foes in check</span>.**


===Legitimacy DA=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">ACA ruling saved court legitimacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Beinart 6/28 [(Peter Beinart is editor in chief of Open Zion, a blog about Israel, Palestine, and the Jewish future at The Daily Beast. He is the author of [[@http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0805094121/thedaibea-20/|The Crisis of Zionism]] (Times Books).) http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/06/28/obamacare-ruling-peter-beinart-on-the-favor-justice-roberts-did-the-right.html] </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">it’s easy to see why liberals are relieved today:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">court’s legitimacy is no longer in free fall.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Activist decisions undermine court legitimacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Earle 93 (Caroline S., J.D. Candidate – Indiana University, Bloomington, “The American Judicial Review Quagmire: A Canadian Proposal”, Indiana Law Journal, Fall, 68 Ind. L.J. 1357, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">John Hart Ely notes that commentators</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">have been inconsistent with its unelected and effectively unchecked status.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Prevents terrorism</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Shapiro 3 (Jeremy, Associate Director and Research Associate – Brookings Institute, March “French Lessons: The Importance of the Judicial System in Fighting Terrorism http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cusf/analysis/shapiro20030325.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;"> The unique nature of terrorism means that</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">without sacrificing the very values they so desperately desire to protect. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Sid-Ahmed 4 (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed; former member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Egypt, leading member of the National Progressive Unionist Party, and leading journalist for Al-Ahmar; Accessed June 25, 2012; http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm; Written August 26, 2004; “Extinction!”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The advent of the nuclear age, which began when America dropped </span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>

===Fiscal Discipline Disad (Lay)=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Currently, there is a high level of Fiscal discipline in congress –compromises are being made between Republicans and Democrats to cut the amount of money our federal government spends. This report is from USA Today which was published on August 7th of this year</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Tim Mullaney, (reporter for USA TODAY) “A year after downgrade, S&P's view on Washington unchanged” 8/7/12 http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-08-03/us-debt-downgrade-one-year/56832980/1</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Before year's end, Congress and President</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Moody's Corp., but Analytics isn't involved in debt ratings. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">It is very important that these spending cuts are made – if we continue to spend reckless amounts of money our national credit rating will be downgraded again, causing our economy to be severely harmed. This article is from the Wall Street Journal’s Market watch, published on August 28th 2012.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Polya Lesova (reporter for Market Watch) “Fitch: U.S. triple-A rating threatened by fiscal cliff” August 28th 2012 http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/08/28/fitch-u-s-triple-a-rating-threatened-by-fiscal-cliff/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">In the midst of convention season, Fitch</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">been good at pushing off difficult decisions, he warned.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">This is why we should not do the Affirmative’s plan – it would simply spend money that we do not have.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;"> If our credit rating is downgraded any further, investors will no longer feel confident in buying US Treasury bonds – this would devastate our already fragile economy by throwing it back into a deep recession. This excerpt is from Charles Rowley, an Economics professor at George Mason University, published on June 15th of this year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Rowley 12Charles Rowley, Professor Emeritus of Economics at George Mason University, 06/15/12, “Renewed threats to U.S. credit rating,” Charles Rowley’s blog, http://charlesrowley.wordpress.com/2012/06/15/renewed-threats-to-u-s-credit-rating/</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">If Moody’s downgrades and if S & P further downgrades</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">fiscal situation. Greece here we come.</span>


==CP== 

===National Preparedness Goal CP=== 

Text: The United States federal government should implement the National Preparedness Goal.

===Privates=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States federal government should establish tax incentives for the private sector to <plan minus the USfg should></span>
Incentives solve
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Winston 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Clifford Winston – Senior Fellow, Economic Studies @ Brookings – 9/29/10, The Private Sector Can Improve Infrastructure with Privatization not a Bank, Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2010/09/29-infrastructure-privatization-winston]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The notion of an “infrastructure bank” seems to</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">travel time and carrier operating costs and improve safety. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Doesn’t link to elections, privatization is popular with voters and government officials don’t take the blame for shortfalls</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dutzik et al 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Tony Dutzik, Frontier Group, Brian Imus, Illinois PIRG Education Fund, Phineas Baxandall, Ph.D., U.S. PIRG Education Fund, “Privatization and the Public Interest The Need for Transparency and Accountability in Chicago’s Public Asset Lease Deals”, Fall 2009, [[http://www.inthepublicinterest.org/sites/default/files/Privatization_and_the_Public_Interest.pdf]], pg. 6]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The greatest draw of privatization</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">avoid public accountability for such decisions.</span>

===Florida PIC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: <plan> except in Florida.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Everglades PIC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: <plan> except in the Everglade Ports. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The plan destroys key ecosystems in the Everglades</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fleshler 11 (David Fleshler, Sun Sentinel, “Environmental battle brews over Port Everglades dredging plan”, August 7, 2011 </span>[[http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2011-08-07/news/fl-port-dredging-20110806_1_port-everglades-coast-ports-entrance-channel]])
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">An environmental fight is brewing over plans by Port Everglades</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">international trade is going to larger ships," he said.</span>

Extinction -- keystone species mean alt causes are irrelevant
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Young 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(PhD coastal marine ecology, 10 [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Different species</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> within ecosystems fill particular roles</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">protection of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>

===Wetlands PIC=== 
====Text:<Plan> except in Wisconsin==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: <plan> except in Wisconsin</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">HSR would devastate Wisconsin wetlands</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lanane 10</span> (Joe Market Editor at Community Impact Newspaper, Walker tells high-speed rail advocates to ‘slow down’, http://dailyreporter.com/2010/10/15/walker-says-slow-down-high-speed-rail/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Republican gubernatorial candidate</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the legal process be followed.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">RCW 96</span> (The Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, November 15, 1996, “Wetlands and biological diversity,” online: http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm)
Wetlands<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - including rivers, lakes, marshes, </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">contribute to the conservation of local biodiversity.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Icebreakers Coast Guard PIC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: <plan> to be operated by the United States Navy and hire all necessary naval personnel for operation. The United States Coast Guard should provide the United States Navy with all necessary training, information, capabilities, and expertise to ensure the operation of polar icebreakers.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Coast Guard is on the brink now-modernization is just barely getting through</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Slattery 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian Slattery, “Coast Guard’s Latest Battle: Underwater Drug Trafficking,” The Foundry, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/09/11/coast-guards-latest-battle-underwater-drug-trafficking/)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While the Coast Guard has successfully </span>
AND

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the original requirement of 16.</span>


The Coast Guard is pushing for the Deepwater Acquisition Program, preventing new project trade offs is key

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lipowicz 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alice Lipowicz, staff writer specializing in government, homeland security, and IT policies for Federal Computer Week, “Coast Guard's Deepwater Strategy Running Aground, Official Says,” http://fcw.com/articles/2011/10/04/coast-guard-may-have-to-give-up-system-of-systems-approach-on-deepwater.aspx)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">According to current baselines</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, only </span>
AND

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">within the current fiscal environment.”</span>



Failure collapses modernization

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Rourke 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Coast Guard Deepwater Acquisition Programs: Background, Oversight Issues, and Options for Congress,” Congressional Research Service, July 29, 2010, http://www.uscg.mil/history/docs/CRSDeepwaterRL33753.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The term </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Deepwater referred to </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more than a dozen</span>
AND

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">unmanned aerial vehicles (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">UAVs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>


Modernization key to fisheries and EEZ security

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew Jones, Lieutenant, US Coast Guard, J.D. Lewis & Clark Law School, “Enforcement of U.S. Fisheries Laws in the EEZ: An Illustration of the Value of the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Missions to the Nation and the Need to Provide it with Adequate Deepwater Resources,” Ocean and Coastal Law Journal, Vol. 13:2, pg. 285, 2008—EEZ=UN’s Exclusive Economic Zone-200 nautical miles away from countries’ border)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A strong, at-sea “presence” of Coast Guard </span>
AND

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">d–and–control electronic equipment.</span>


Lack of EEZ Security collapses marine biodiversity

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AOC 6</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(America’s Ocean Challenge, “America’s EEZ – $ Value,” The Baum Foundation, The Ocean Project, Summerhays, 2006, http://www.americasoceanchallenge.com/pages/eez.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America’s EEZ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is an area of nearly 4.5 million square</span>
AND

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">economic sectors creating the stress on marine ecosystems.</span>


BioD loss causes extinction, any defense from before August is obsolete

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Science Daily 8/19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ("Biodiversity Critical for Maintaining Multiple 'Ecosystem Services'" Cites McGill University, August 19, www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110819155422.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">By combining data from 17 of the largest </span>
AND

possible could be a good precautionary approach<span style="font-size: 5pt;">."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Tournament CP</span>=== 


Our counter advocacy is to reject the affirmative within the realm of a competitive debate round – we believe the better way to confront __is to host a public forum wherein we could discuss the role of__ __.


Attempting to create recognition through a competitive debate round is structurally flawed since there are no written records of decisions and there is little collective memory of what happened in any given debate.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Atchison and Panetta 9 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, "Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future," The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In addition</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the structural problems, </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and losses of their own debaters.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Using the competitive debate format to generate change does not generate the necessary coalitions – it just makes the losing team scapegoats for the community’s problems, which causes a focus on "how to win" rather than "how to make the community better"</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, "Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future," The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334)</span>

Competition has been a critical component of
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">promoting solutions to diversity problems in the debate community.</span>

===Court Stripping CP=== 
Text: the United States Congress should (insert the plan). <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Congress should exercise its Article III power to eliminate the jurisdiction of any Federal Court to hear any challenges to the constitutionality of this legislation or to the authority of this Congressional interpretation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">The net benefit is Congressional Empowerment</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The counterplan creates a progressive moment in Congress – it spills over and would empower the Congress to reassert its authority</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">West 94 [Robin West Prof. of Law. Georgetown ‘94(Progressive Constitutionalism p. 218-220)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;"> The concluding section of this chapter argues</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">will this conservative Court change paths.</span>


Two Impacts:



First is popular constitutionalism

Ending judicial supremacy is key to revive democratic discourse

Lipkin 6 [Robert Justin <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lipkin ‘6</span> Professor of Law, WidenerUniversitySchool of Law (28 Cardozo L. Rev. 1055)]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even when the Court gets the right interpretation three problems remain</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and</span>

bringing the Constitution back to its roots<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

extinction

Boggs 97 [<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carl </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boggs</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, National University, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theory and Society, December, Volume 26, Number 6, p. 773-4]</span>

The decline of the public sphere<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in late twentieth-century America </span>poses a series of great<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dilemmas and </span>challenges<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many ideological currents scrutinized here -- localism, metaphysics, spontaneism, post-modernism, Deep Ecology -- intersect with and reinforce each other. While these currents have deep origins in popular movements of the 1960s and 1970s, they remain very much alive in the 1990s. Despite their different outlooks and trajectories, they all share one thing in common: a depoliticized expression of struggles to combat and overcome alienation.</span>

The false sense of empowerment<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that comes</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society.</span>


Second is Modeling

Status quo emerging democracies model US judicial supremacy -- only an abandonment of judicial supremacy in the US can end the pressures towards it around the world.

Hiebert 4 [Janet L. Hiebert ‘4 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Associate Professor of Political Studies, Queen's University, Canada (82 Tex. L. Rev. 1963)]</span>

The reason for caution does not arise out of
and

required for responsible judgments about rights<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Judicial hegemony entrenches elite power – it hampers democratic transitions

Hirschl 4 [Ran Hirschl ‘4 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Political Science & Law, University of Toronto (//Towards Juristocracy// p. 1-2)]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the benefits of constitutionalization for economic</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">minimize the potential threat to their hegemony.</span>

This turns the case and causes global war

Mansfield 6 [Edward D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mansfield</span>, associate professor of political science at Columbia, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Jack <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder</span>, professor of political science and director of the institute of war and peace studies at Columbia, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span> National Interest]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">THE BUSH Administration has argued that promoting</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.88888931274414px; line-height: 14.44444465637207px;">AND</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the future consolidation of democracy more difficult</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14px;">9-0 CP</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Text: The Supreme Court of the United States should <plan> on a 9-0 decision.</span>
Fragmented decisions are normal means – kills solvency
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 95 </span>[Phillip – prof polisci Vermont – Battles on the Bench]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>excessive fragmentation of the Cou<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rt</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> effective institutional judgment.</span>

Plurality opinions limit the Court’s ability to solve and change social attitudes.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Office of Legal Policy 88 </span>[Deparment of Justice document, A New Look at Plurality, JK 1521.U49 1989 p4-6]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The bulk of academic commentary has unequivocally </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">condemned</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Court in the political system in particular</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Plurality decisions fail to enforce change – results in lower court confusion and risks rollback – turns solvency
<span style="font-size: 15.555556297302246px;">Office of Legal Policy 88 </span>[Deparment of Justice document, A New Look at Plurality, JK 1521.U49 1989 p6-7]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The legal commentators’ views of the “</span>harmful
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">expense of values of certainty and uniformity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>

Upholding the Rule of Law is a D-Rule to uphold the fundamental rights of all humanity
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 71 </span>[John – prof Harvard – __A Theory of Justice__ – p235]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I now wish to consider </span>rights of the person<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as these</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a more suggestive phrase than “formal justice.”</span>



==K== 


===**Biopolitics**=== 

Increasing Transportation infrastructure objectifies the efficiency of travel and leads to biopolitical control asserted over the population
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bonham and Cox 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jennifer Bonham and Peter Cox, BA Independent Study [Interdisciplinary research] (University of Lancaster), PhD Philosophy (University of Liverpool), “The disruptive traveller? A Foucauldian analysis of cycleways”, Road & Transport Research, Vol. 19, No. 2, June 2010]</span>
From the moment we are born – separated from our mothers, gendered male or
AND
worked upon in disciplining the mobile body (Bonham 2006; Paterson 2007).
Biopower leads to extinction due to a kill to save mentality of managing populations, this is the most probable scenario.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kouros 97</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[George </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">Kouros</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Yale Law Graduate and BA in Philosophy from Emory, “Become What You Are”, pgs 22-25,1997]</span>
Although the consequences are grave, the administrative practices of biopower go largely unchallenged precisely
AND
a "happier human being," maintains the conditions for a eugenic nightmare.

Destroys ontology; outweighs extinction and makes extinction inevitable- Recapturing the essence of being is a prerequisite to reestablishing a proper form of ethics and politics
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">De Beistegui 97</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Miguel de Beistegui, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick, “Heidegger and the Political,” ed. by K. Ansell-Pearson and S. Critchely, p.71, 1997]</span>
Yet, at this point, everything happens as if our postmodern condition were nothing
AND
essence (for his relation to the default of being), but are entirely
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
Our alternative is the judge should vote negative to engage in criticism of the 1AC
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen 94</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David Owen, PhD in philosophy at Durham University, Professor ofSocial and Political Philosophy and Deputy Director of the Centre for Philosophy and Value @ University of Southampton, this guy knows his shit. //Morality and Modernity//, 1994, pp 208-210;1994</span>
The ‘universal’ intellectual, on Foucault’s account, is that figure who maintains a
AND
we recognize our autonomy in the contestation of determinations of who we are

===Tao=== 
<span style="font-size: 12px;">The 1AC’s rationalist attempt to anticipate the effects of foreign policy will fail. Emptying oneself of being is a prerequisite to true understanding.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Pettman 5—Ralph Pettman, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, 2005 (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72-75)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">How does moving onto Taoist ground, and immersing </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 12px;">we are to understand global security</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Kirkland 98 [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Why It Is Wrong to Resent Unexpected Changes In Chuang-tzu</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 12px;">course of simply accepting the new state of things</span>

===Badiou=== 
The affirmative claim to save a particular identity group is what Badiou calls a simulacrum of the truth. Simulacrums are dangerous because they create an “us” of ethical insiders vs a “them” of outsiders. This is the root of war, racism, and genocide. Only a search for universals that we refuse to impose on others can be emancipatory.
Badiou 98 (Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 73-77)
What allows a genuine event to be
AND
it is terror directed at everyone.

Ethical principles remove us from the urgency of particular needs. We focus on identifying situations that match the rules, rather than imagining a positive vision of the future. This reduces us all to a subhuman mass.
The alternative is to break with such rules and give ourselves over to the particular event—what Badiou calls fidelity to the event.
Badiou, 98 (Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 14-16)
Every collective will to the Good creates EviL.
AND
die in the shantytowns of Kinshasa.

Our alternative can only succeed by maintaining its distance from the state. Politics must be conceived of as the search for a universal that is uncompromised by political calculations.
Badiou 5 ([[http://www.lacan.com/badtruth.htm]], Appears in //Metapolitics//, New York: Verso, 2005, Alain Badiou, • Highly Speculative Reasoning on the Concept of Democracy, translated Barbara Fulks).
The representation of the State through power
AND
least locally, the egalitarian maxim is practicable.
==Intel== 
===Greenhill=== 
Round 1- Glenbrook North DM-Treasury Department increase investment in infrastructure
1NC: T-Road/Rail, T-Subsets, Oil DA, Elections DA, Biopolitics K, case
2NC: Biopolitics K, case
1NR: Elections DA, case
2NR: Elections DA, case

Round 3-Gulliver Prep MZ- National Infrastructure Bank
1NC: T-Mandate, Oil DA, Elections DA, Biopolitics K, case
2NC- T-Mandate, case
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: T-Mandate

Round 6-Niles North OF-Port Security
1NC: T-Throughout, National Preparedness Goal CP, Elections DA, Biopolitics K, case
2NC: Biopolitics K, case
1NR: Elections DA, case
2NR: Elections DA, case

===Wichita East=== 
Round 2-Washburn Rural OP-CCS
1NC: T-Road/Rail, Oil DA, Elections DA, Privates CP, Biopolitics K, case
2NC: Biopolitics K, Case
1NR: Elections DA, Privates CP
2NR: Elecions DA, Privates CP

Round 3-Blue Valley North EJ-Electrified Freight Rail
1NC:T-Increase, Florida Elections DA, Biopolitics K, Privates CP, Florida PIC, case
2NC: T-Increase, Privates CP, Case
1NR: Florida Elections DA, Florida PIC
2NR: Florida Elections DA, Florida PIC

Round 5- Blue Valley North WY-Electrified Freight Rail
1NC: T-Increase, Florida Elections DA, Biopolitics K, Privates CP, Florida PIC, case
2NC- Biopolitics K, Keynesian Economics Bad, Case
1NR: Florida Elections, Florida PIC
2NR: Florida Elections, Keynesian Economics Bad, Case

Semis- Shawnee Mission East MT- Port Dredging
1NC: Elections DA, T-Underlying Structures, Biopolitics K, Privates CP, Everglades PIC, case
2NC: T-Underlying Structures, Everglades PIC
1NR: Elections
2NR: Everglades PIC

===Iowa Caucas=== 
Round 1-Homewood-Flossmore CM-Navy CSN Fleet
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-Non-Military, T, Elections, Some Silly CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-Non-Military, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: T-Non-Military</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 3- Kent Denver JB-National Highway Infrastructure Bank</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-Underlying Structures, Elections DA, Biopolitics K, Privates CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-Underlying Structures, Privates CP, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Elections, Case</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 6-Traverse City PC-HSR</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-Increase, Wisconsin Wetlands PIC, Elections, Privates CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-Increase, Privates CP, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: T-Increase :(</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Double Octafinals-Glenbrooks South CC-Inland Waterways/Dredging</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Everglades PIC, Biopolitics, Elections, T-Underlying Structures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: Everglades PIC, T-Underlying Structures</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Everglades PIC</span>

===KCKCC=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 1-SME MT-Dredging</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-Underlying Structures, Fiscal Cliff DA, Elections, Everglades PIC, Privates CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-Underlying Structures, Privates CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR:Fiscal Cliff DA, Privates CP</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 3-BVSW LS-Shortline Rail</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-Increase, Biopolitics, Privates CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Wisconsin Wetlands PIC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: Wetlands PIC, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 6-SME KW-New Vegas</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Tournament CP, Taoism, Framework, Cap Good</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: Framework</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Tournament CP, Cap Good</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Tournament CP, Cap Good</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Quarterfinals-Pembroke FL-Ranciere Disabilities Aff </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Cap K, Badiou K, Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: Framework</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Badiou</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2nr: Framework</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Semifinals-SMS KO-Third Space/Heg Bad Aff</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Cap K, Badiou K, T, West is Best, Case D, Competitive Forums Bad</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: West is Best, Case D, Competitive Forums Bad</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: West is Best, Case D, Competitive Forums Bad</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The Glenbrooks</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 1-St. Ignatius LP-ITS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: T-nonmilitary, T-Transportaton Infrastructure excludes energy, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-TI, case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 3-Carrolton DS-Navigable passages through ice</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-Non Military, T-Vehicles, Privates CP, Navy PIC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: T-Vehicles, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: T-Vehicles </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Round 6-Westminster BP-CCS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, T-TI excludes Energy, Clean Tech Trade Off DA, Privates CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NC: TI excludes Energy, Privates CP, Case</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, Privates CP</span>

===CFL Qualifier=== 
Round 2- SME MT-Kansas Infrastructure Bank (Lay)
1NC: T-Increase, Fiscal Discipline DA, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: Fiscal Discipline DA
2NR: Fiscal Discipline DA, case

Round 5- SME MK-Courts Port Dredging
1NC: T-Underlying Structures, Courts Stripping CP, 9-0 CP, Legitimacy DA, Fiscal Cliff DA, case
2NC: Court Stripping CP, case
1NR: T-Underlying Structures, Legitimacy DA
2NR: Court Stripping CP, Legitimacy DA, case