=Alcoff K-Berkeley= 
**Advocating for those who are oppressed is wrong—the affirmative acts under the guise of political empowerment but inherently ends up utilizing descriptions of poverty to accomplish their own development goals—this is an act of commodification and oppression.**
Linda Martín <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span>, Department of Philosophy at SyracuseUniversity.<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1992, </span>Cultural Critique Winter 1991-92, “The Problem of Speaking For Others,” pp. 5-32
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Feminist discourse is ....... one is a member.</span>


**The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.**
Linda <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span>, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1995</span>, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is partly ...... our experiential lives.9</span>

**The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.**
Patricia <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams</span>, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1987</span> University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> There are certain .....</span> we have left.

**Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.**
Michel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault and</span> Gilles <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1972</span> Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">FOUCAULT: It seems ...... seen as power?...</span>
=Critical Infrastructure Protection K-Berkeley= 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Infrastructure Control by the affirmative reentrenches an ideology of Critical Infrastructure Protection which defines infrastructure as targets to continue the endless cycle of insecurities and also justify targeted warfare.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collier & Lakoff 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(PhD in Anthropology @ Berkeley & PhD in Sociocultural Anthropology @ Berkley (Stephen J. & Andrew, “The Vulnerability of Vital Systems: How “Critical Infrastructure” Became a Security Problem” //The Politics of Securing the Homeland: Critical Infrastructure, Risk and Securitisation// 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf)/JES|http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf)//JES]]</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In this chapter ...... Foundations, cited above.</span>

**Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of CIP allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace the broken system, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

The only way.......return the gift<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>