[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Abuse AC**</span>==== 

The **OED[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** defines extend as “**__To widen the__** range, scope, **__area of application of (a law__**, operation, dominion, **__state of things, etc.__**); to enlarge the scope or meaning of (a word).” This means extending due process rights is offering non-citizens accused of terrorism those rights when under US jurisdiction and not forcibly extraditing every non-citizen to be tried in US courts.

It defines same as “With forward reference: **__Identical__** with what is indicated in the following context.

V: Morality

Actor is US since A) extend Constitutional DP is state action, B) assume US jurisdiction and can’t ask if should extend if they can’t

1. The state has authority to limit certain rights to only those who have submitted to its power. A. John Simmons, “Locke and the Right to Punish,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 20, No. 4 (Autumn, 1991), pp. 311-349. “Locke and other…a utilitarian gain.”

2. Removing the ability of the public to contest state policies detaches the state from accountability.

3. U<span style="color: black;">nchecked state power means it is impossible to establish any conception of morality. </span>

<span style="color: black;">C: Checking unregulated abuse of state power</span>

<span style="color: black;">A) No due process leads to abuse. </span>Neal Katyal. Professor of Law at Georgetown. Equality in the War on Terror. 2007. 59 Stanford Law Review. “While discrimination by…war on terror.” Katyal 2: “In the “global…set of powers.”

<span style="font-family: Times;">Due process solves. Neal Katyal. Professor of Law at Georgetown. Equality in the War on Terror. 2007. 59 Stanford Law Review. “Consider Justice Scalia’s…equal in operation.”</span>


**B.** States overextend legitimate power to compensate for unjustified security claims.

Harming others justifies harming self. Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006, pp. 113-128. “Differently from other…as its ground.”

Risk is inaccurate. Lucia Zedner [<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Professor of Criminal Justice, Law Fellow at Corpus Christi College, Oxford and a Member of the Centre for Criminology]</span>. Securing Liberty in the Face of Terror: Reflections from Criminal Justice. Journal of Law and Society, Vol. 32, No. 4 (Dec., 2005), pp. 507-533. “Scholars of criminal…to erode rights.”

The supposed “risk” of terrorism causes states to create ever more extensive responses. Lucia Zedner [<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Professor of Criminal Justice, Law Fellow at Corpus Christi College, Oxford and a Member of the Centre for Criminology]</span>. Securing Liberty in the Face of Terror: Reflections from Criminal Justice. Journal of Law and Society, Vol. 32, No. 4 (Dec., 2005), pp. 507-533. “It is no…to tip in.”


**C.** Taking away due process rights of non-citizens leads to erosion of rights for citizens.
<span style="font-family: Times;">Brian Smith. Law at Akron University. Judicial Attorney at Ohio Ninth District Court of Appeals; Law Clerk at [[http://www.linkedin.com/company/united-states-attorney's-office?trk=ppro_cprof|United States Attorney's Office]]; Blackstone Fellow at Alliance Defense Fund. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Charles Demore v. Hyung Joon Kim: Another Step Away from Full </span><span style="color: #cd0033; font-family: Times;">Due Process </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;"> Protections. Akron Law Review. 2005. “Although the Supreme…this modification applies.”</span>

<span style="color: black;">This is empirically verified. </span>David Cole. Law Professor at Georgetown. Enemy Aliens, Georgetown University Law Center 2002 Working Paper Series In Business, Economics, and Regulatory Law, Working Paper No. 320114, pp. 959 “What we are…haunt us all.”


3. Truth is necessary for human worth.
4. Inaccurary disrupts reason. <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Christine Korsgaard, </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies in Philosophy Harvard University</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">. “The Activity of Reason”(Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Monday, December 29, 2008), p. 25 “In the case… to the truth.”</span>
==Negative== 

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**Dialogical Respect NC**</span>==== 
**Value: Morality** from OED/ought = moral imperative
[Oxford English Dictionary. “Ought.” June 2012. Oxford University Press.]


Morality is derived from the status of possessing agency, meaning it does not exist outside of an agent-derived authority. Bagnoli 1
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. It is particularly … her own favor</span>


If we value the autonomy of our will, that necessarily mandates we value the autonomy of others. Bagnoli 2
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. Different from other … as its ground.</span>

We respect others by acknowledging their status as authoritative self-legislating beings. This mandates dialogical respect. Bagnoli 3
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carla Bagnoli [Professor of Moral epistemology, metaethics, action theory, normative ethics, philosophy of mind, and theoretical philosophy at University of Milwaukee]. Respect and Membership in the Moral Community. //Ethical Theory and Moral Practice,//10/2 2006. The advantage of … what is implies.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CR: </span>**consistency with dialogical respect**

This applies to US as state since it acts as proxy for citizens in international realm.

Contention 1: US centric courts deny voices.

Terrorism is an international crime. Dickinson 1
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura A. Dickinson [Professor at GW Law]. Using Legal Process to Fight Terrorism Detentions, Military Commissions, International Tribunals, and the Rule of Law. 2002. Regardless of the … Nazis had committed.</span>



<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">This abuse is further shown by the plurality of moral views in the international arena—just using Constitutional due process excludes other possible forms of justice. Menkow 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Carrie Menkel-Meadow [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Times;">Founding Faculty Chancellor's Professor of Law Joint appointment in Law and Political Science] The Trouble with the Adversary System in a Postmodern, Multicultural World. 38 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 5 (1996). Recall that when … complex international cooperation. </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]