[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

===**Global Positioning System 1AC (Westside)**=== 

**Contention One: Inherency**

**A. Dual launch capabilities are being cut**

Dee Ann Divis Dec. 2012 has covered GNSS and the aerospace industry since the early 1990s, writing for GPS World, Geo Info Systems, Jane’s International Defense Review, the Los Angeles Times, AeroSpace Daily, and other publications.

The GPS program . . . request for a comment.

**B. Congress cut funding for GPS III**
National Executive Committee 11 (“Fiscal Year 2012 Program Funding,” 10/3/11, National Executive Committee for Space-Based PNT, http://www.pnt.gov/policy/legislation/funding/2012.shtml)

On June 14, the House Appropriations Committee. . . and $24 million

**C. GPS III has funding for only for 4 satellites**
GPS.gov 12 (Official gov info about GPS, “Space Segment”, http://www.gps.gov/systems/gps/space/#III)

Currently under development . . . civilian users alike.

**Plan Text: The United States federal government should fully fund all 18 GPS III Satellites. We'll clarify**

**Contention Two is Food Security**

**A. GPS enhances precision agriculture – reduces pesticide use, increases yield, and allows smaller farms to preserve accurate and productive methods for farming in the face of large scale farm operations**
GPS.gov ‘12 (http://www.gps.gov/applications/agriculture/ The National Coordination Office for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing maintains the contents of GPS.gov on behalf of the U.S. government. Feb 17, 2012 Accessed: 6-28-12)

Precision agriculture is now . . . operations in the future.

**B. GPS key to crop yields – consistency and accuracy**
**Western Farm Press ‘11 (USA Rice Federation, Western Farm Press, “GPS dependability vital to agriculture”, August 10, 2011, http://westernfarmpress.com/government/gps-dependability-vital-agriculture, )**

USA Rice Federation . . . device is unknown.

**C. Small farms face significant risks – collapse would result in the US depending on other nations for food**
Scholl ‘11 [Jon, President of American Farmland Trust, Roll Call, October 27]

Our nation faces . . . clothe ourselves.

**D. Once the genie is out of the bottle, it won’t go back in – famine leads to warfare which leads to increased malnutrition, sparking revolutions – regimes resort to fascism and backlash**
Smith 98 (Paul J., Asia-Pacific Center for Sec'y Studies, http://www.apcss.org/Publications/ Report_Food_Security_98.html, accessed 7/8/11)

Food security and . . . as a security concern.

**E. We have an ethical obligation to mitigate or prevent famine**
LaFollette 2k3 [Hugh, Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg, "World Hunger" Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics, ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman, Blackwell 2003, http://www.stpt.usf.edu/hhl/papers/World.Hunger.htm]

Those who claim . . . of the starving.

**Contention Three is Drone Hacking**

**A. GPS defenses aren’t adequate**
Charette 12 (Robert, interviewing Humpreys: assistant professor in the department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas at Austin, M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from Cornell University, July 6, “Drones and GPS Spoofing Redux”, http://spectrum.ieee.org/riskfactor/aerospace/aviation/-drones-and-gps-spoofing-redux)\

Charette: Okay. Now, . . .<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> against our sensors.</span>

**B.US drones are vulnerable to electronic hijacking**
Mills 12 (Elinor,“Drones can be hijacked via GPS spoofing attack”, http://news.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-57464271-83/drones-can-be-hijacked-via-gps-spoofing-attack/)

Last year a U.S. . . . at other targets.

**C.Current programs don’t address vulnerabilities---that allows drones to be used as weapons**
Kersey 12 (Ben, staffwriter, “Researchers find drones vulnerable to GPS spoofing”, Jun 29, http://www.slashgear.com/researchers-find-drones-vulnerable-to-gps-spoofing-29236474/)

Spoofers are a new . . . signals, not spoofed on...

**D.Drones can be used for terrorist attacks**
BBC 12 (29 June, “Researchers use spoofing to 'hack' into a flying drone”, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-18643134)

A University of Texas at Austin team used "spoofing" - . . . on the wrong people.

**E. Terrorism escalates into nuclear war**
Robert Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, . . . with a devastating response.

**F. Terrorist attacks have large psychological impacts**
TA Melnik September 6, 2002 (et al), DrPH, CT Baker, Bur of Chronic Disease Epidemiology and Surveillance, New York State Dept of Health. ML Adams, MPH, Connecticut Dept of Health. K O'Dowd, PhD, New Jersey Dept of Health and Senior Svcs. AH Mokdad, PhD, DW Brown, MSPH, W Murphy, WH Giles, MD, VS Bales, MPH, Div of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC.

To measure the psychological . . . during the attacks.

**Contention Four is Solvency**

**A. Dual-launching saves 1.5 Billion over single launches**
Amy Butler October 05, 2012 Aviation Week Aviation Week is the largest information and services provider to the global commercial, defense, maintenance/repair/overhaul (MRO), space and business aviation communities and plays a critical role in connecting industry professionals worldwide. Anchored by its flagship Aviation Week & Space Technology, Aviation Week continues to grow and evolve its portfolio to meet the needs of the industry.

U.S. rocket makers are . . . a 15-year in-orbit life.


**B. GPS III increases accuracy and solves interference**
UPI 12 (“Lockheed building more GPS III satellites”, http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/16/Lockheed-building-more-GPS-III-satellites/UPI-25391326723087/)

The third and fourth . . . current and future needs."

**C. 18 satellites are necessary to access GPS III benefits---including solving both military and civilian interference**
Duncan 11 (Geoff, “GPS III explained: Everything you need to know about the next generation of GPS”, http://www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/gps-iii-explained-everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-next-generation-of-gps/)

The higher power . . . reception and accuracy.

===Next Gen 1AC (Lincoln Southwest)=== 

**Contention 1: Inherency**

**1. Despite FAA reauthorization, NextGen is still underfunded and faces congressional obstacles.**
Carey 12 (Bill Carey is senior editor with Aviation International News, based in Washington, D.C. He covers the airline and defense industries as well as business aviation.)

The FAA reauthorization . . . make that happen?

**2. Budget cuts put NextGen implementation at risk.**
Turner 7/18
(Aimee Turner, Staff writer, Air Traffic Management, “Sequestration’s ‘crippling’ effect on NextGen: AIA,” 7/18/12, http://www.airtrafficmanagement.net/2012/07/sequestrations-crippling-effect-on-nextgen-aia/)

The devastating cuts . . . will diminish that.”

**PLAN: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for the Next Generation Air Transportation System. We'll clarify.**

**Contention 2: GPS**

**. GPS Signals are vulnerable now**
DOE 12 (Vulnerability Assessment Team (VAT), “GPS is easy to spoof”, http://www.ne.anl.gov/capabilities/vat/spoof.html, )

The Global Position System . . . computers, or GPS itself

**2.US drones are vulnerable to electronic hijacking**
Mills 12 (Elinor,“Drones can be hijacked via GPS spoofing attack”, http://news.cnet.com/8301-1009_3-57464271-83/drones-can-be-hijacked-via-gps-spoofing-attack)

Last year a . . . at other targets.

**3.Current programs don’t address vulnerabilities---that allows drones to be used as weapons**
Kersey 12 (Ben, staffwriter, “Researchers find drones vulnerable to GPS spoofing”, Jun 29, http://www.slashgear.com/researchers-find-drones-vulnerable-to-gps-spoofing-29236474/,)

Spoofers are a new problem . . ., not spoofed on

**4.Drones can be used for terrorist attacks**
BBC 12 (29 June, “Researchers use spoofing to 'hack' into a flying drone”, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-18643134)

A University of Texas at Austin team . . . on the wrong people.

**5.This will escalate into nuclear war**
Robert Ayson 10, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even . . . meet with a devastating response.

**6.Terrorist attacks have large psychological impacts**
TA Melnik September 6, 2002 (et al), DrPH, CT Baker, Bur of Chronic Disease Epidemiology and Surveillance, New York State Dept of Health. ML Adams, MPH, Connecticut Dept of Health. K O'Dowd, PhD, New Jersey Dept of Health and Senior Svcs. AH Mokdad, PhD, DW Brown, MSPH, W Murphy, WH Giles, MD, VS Bales, MPH, Div of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC. This is a report done after9/11 tht highlihgts the physiological impacts of terrorism.

To measure the psychological . . . during the attacks.

**Contention 3: Economy**

**1. Implementation key to economic growth**
HUERTA 12 Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration [Michael P. Huerta; March 2012; “NextGen Implementation Plan]

NextGen benefits everyone . . . do just that.

**We’ll isolate several impacts the first is:**
**1.)Updating NextGen would spur economic growth and keep avoid an inevitable future collapse**
BLAKEY 11 President and CEO of Aerospace Industries Association [Marion C. Blakey, The future of NextGen, 02/15/11, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen]

The House and Senate have . . . the leader in civil aviation.

**2.)Economic collapse causes global war**
Auslin, 9 – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)

As they deal with . . . systems in the past.

**The Next is Hegemony**
**1.)Strong aerospace economy key to overall US Hegemony—even a moderate decline in the industry would be disastrous**
Thompson 9 (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)

Aerospace systems are of . . . space sector relies on.

**2.)Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction**
Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads

It is worth first examining . . . Century now unfolding.

**And lastly: Racism**

**1.) Economic downturn fuels racism.**
Associated Press 09
[“U.N. Chief: Bad Economy Threatens More Racism”. URL: http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,517127,00.html.]
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged . . . that proliferate hatred.

**2.) We must reject every instance of racism**
Joseph Barndt in 2007 (Quals: Reverend; educator, trainer and organizer in the field of racial justice, Source: Understanding and Dismantling Racism: The 21st Century Challenge to White America, Page: 219-20, RK)

To study racism is . . . nationally and globally.

**Contention 4: Solvency**

**Federal action is key—state governments have strained budget.**
DOT 12—The Department of the Treasury. “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf accessed date: 6-19-12 y2k

Our analysis indicates . . . associated with public investment.



=Negative=