[[toc]]
=Info= 

=Affirmative= 
====Milton==== 

ADVANTAGE 1s Methane
====Status quo methane burst is inevitable- melting polar ice==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Siegel. 12. </span>-Senior Counsel Center for Biological Diversity, Climate Law Institute Director. Law degree from Berkeley. [9/4/12. Kassie Siegel. Huffington Post. “3 Ways Arctic Meltdown Threatens the Whole World” <[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/kassie-siegel/arctic-melt_b_1855204.html]]>]MRaina
Unleash the clathrates! They lie deep beneath the surface of the Arctic Ocean …..results could be devastating.
====Quantitatively larger than nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ryskin 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University [“Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, September 2003. <</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">>]MRaina</span>
The consequences of a methane-driven oceanic eruption ……world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons.
====Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point- and our current approach isn’t sufficient==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duarte and Huertas 10/18</span> (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia

and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”,[[http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html]])

The risk with climate change is not with …. be a careless walk on the razor edge.
====Only extraction solves methane==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen ‘10</span> MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])

Well, of course, this makes sense. We wouldn't …..fuels like natural gas—to cause natural degassing.
====Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DOE 5/2/12</span> (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, [[http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies]])


WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu …… require engaging private sector and international partners.

====Icebreakers are key to extraction – and we don’t link to your oil offense – oil drilling won’t begin for 20 years==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hargreaves 7/19</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- When Royal Dutch Shell sinks five wells off Alaska -- slated for next month -- it will be the first drilling in U.S. Arctic waters in decades.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet it will be just the latest in a slow-moving but steady push to tap the Arctic's vast natural resources.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Encouraged by high commodity prices and shrinking sea ice, everyone from Big Oil to the cruise industry is eager to get in on the Arctic's riches.</span>
Oil and Gas: Perhaps the most high profile of the….year round, and without requiring the services of an icebreaker.

**ADVANTAGE 2 is the Arctic**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Russia not cooperating now and unstoppable in the Arctic- Russian officials, papers and actions</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dawkins 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)//moxley</span>
Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorial….and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.
====Risk of conflict is high.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tassinari 9/7</span> Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/
The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck ……conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.
====The plan’s reverses this trend – a __clear__ signal is key to avert Arctic war.==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dowd 11</span>**– MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” [[https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979]]
One reason a military presence will be necessary …..up allied resolve in the Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.
====Absent these solutions, current militarization will ensures Arctic conflicts go nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace and Staples, 10</span>(Michael Wallace and Steven Staples. *Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia AND ** President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]])
The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased ….significance of the Arctic because of climate change.” 62
====Best scholarship proves our impact==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murray 12</span>**(Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)
It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War …..changes to the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.
====Scenario Two is Science==== 
====S__ustainable__ icebreaking capabilities are necessary for science leadership and warming research.==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
The history of scientific activity in the polar regions is intimately tied to ….resupply of McMurdo Station (and, in turn, South Pole Station and inland sites) in Antarctica.
====That solves a laundry list of impacts.==== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Federoff 8</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nina, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID “Testimony Before The House Science Subcommittee On Research And Science Education,” pg online @</span>[[@http://gop.science.house.gov/Media/Hearings/research08/April2/fedoroff.pdf|__http://gop.science.house.gov/Media/Hearings/research08/April2/fedoroff.pdf__]]<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> //)</span>
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee…. as a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.

Solvency
||   || ==== ==== ||
====Plan aligns agency responsibilities for __federal investment__ in icebreaking capabilities==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
The committee finds that both operations and maintenance ….. responsibilities and budgetary authorities.
====The Coast Guard would coordinate with many federal agencies to achieve long-term solvency==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO</span> An analysis of the reports assembled by various government offices 12/01/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11 </span>[Government Accountability Office] DHS-OIG “Report on the Coast Guard's Polar Icebreakers”
http://www.gao.gov/htext/d12254t.html
The Coast Guard also coordinates …..Presidential Directive 25.[Footnote 37]
====Russia is psychologically drawn to the North because of history and patriotism.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baev 10</span> [Pavel Kimovich Baev (born 22 May 1957 in Vladivostok, Russia), is a Norwegian political scientist and security scholar. He is currently a research professor at the Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO)and a senior nonresident fellow at the Brookings Institution (Washington, DC); “The Arctic: A View From Moscow”; 2010 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; [[http://carnegieendowment.org/files/arctic_cooperation.pdf]]; Boyce]
NOTE: Chelyuskin was a Soviet steamship that was only ice-reinforced; it sunk in the Arctic in 1934
The constant refrain one hears about the Arctic’s “countless resources” …. expand Russia’s frontiers seems to be the more likely reason.
====Developing an understanding of Arctic policies is an important discussion because of current geopolitics.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Backus and Strickland 8</span> [George A. Backus (1433) and James H. Strickland (1433) Exploratory Simulation Technologies Department Sandia National Laboratories, George Edward Backus (born May 24, 1930) is an American geophysicist,[1] best known for his work with J. Freeman Gilbert on inverse methods for geophysical data.[2] He is also notably credited with advancing the dynamo theory on the origin of the Earth's magnetic field.[3] ; “Climate-Derived Tensions in Arctic Security”; September 2008; [[http://est.sandia.gov/earth/docs/Tensions_in_Arctic_SecurityFinal.pdf]]; Boyce]
Uncertainty in the timing of an ice-free Arctic affects ….risks and optimized planning based on advanced technology.
====Empirical studies justify our Arctic representations.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ruby 12</span> [Byron Ruby is currently a John Gardner Fellow at the U.S. Department of State in the Office of Global Change working on adaptation measures to climate change. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in May 2011 with a B.A. in Political Science, a B.S. in Society & Environment, and a minor in Applied Language Studies; Peer Reviewed; “Berkeley Undergraduate Journal, 25(1)”; 2012; [[http://escholarship.org/uc/item/6z7864c7]]; Boyce]
In this section, I will present the data collected concerning ….and domestic incentives to push for military confrontation (Hensel 1996, 45-47).

=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===Bunn 1NC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should develop a comprehensive preventative nuclear terrorism strategy as per our Bunn evidence.**

**That solves nuclear terrorism from the bottom up.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bunn 2010</span> [Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]]; Boyce]
The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> fundamental </span>key to success
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has implemented the lessons learned. 6</span>

===Carbon Tax 1NC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should implement a phased, revenue-neutral carbon tax.**

**The CP reduces CO2 emissions and the budget deficit – doesn’t link to politics.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stone ’12</span>Chad Stone, chief economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, March 29, “A Carbon Tax Is Smart Energy and Budget Policy”, US News, http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/03/29/carbon-tax-smart-energy-and-budget-policy
Policymakers who are serious about addressing the nation’s long-term fiscal problems should
AND
includes a carbon fee it should provide equivalent protection for low income households.

**Offsetting a carbon tax with a reduction in income taxes solves.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sinclair ’12 </span>Peter Sinclair, long-time advocate of environmental awareness and energy alternatives, award winning graphic artist, illustrator, and animator, Arthur Laffer was a former member of Reagan’s Economic Policy Advisory Board and current policy co-chairman of the Free Enterprise Fund, “Arthur Laffer: Reagan’s Economist Proposes a Carbon Tax”, Climate Denial Crock of the Week, May 31, http://climatecrocks.com/2012/05/31/arthur-laffer-reagans-economist-proposes-a-carbon-tax/
Arthur Laffer, architect of Ronald Reagan’s economic plan, spells out his case for
AND
conservative case for carbon action in an interview from a few months ago.
==Disads== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coercion 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The funding for the aff is coercively obtained -- the government uses its influence and strength to force citizens to finance transportation infrastructure.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rothbard, 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—dean of the Austrian School of economics (Murray N., “The Nature of the State”, excerpted from The Ethics of Liberty ch. 22-25, 2002, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)/EM|http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html)//EM]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">=</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The State indeed performs many important and necessary functions: from provision of law to</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, he will be arrested or shot if he should continue to resist.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance is key</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Petro, ‘74 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 48]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - "I believe in</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Each new step of coercion must be resisted – it moves us one step further along the road of oppression</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Browne, 1995</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.5pt;"> (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, Why Government Doesn’t Work, p.65-66)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Escalation Each increase in coercion is easier to justify. If it's right to force</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">-meaning reformers who would use force only to build a better world.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fiscal Cliff 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Will pass now – talks are posturing.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Politico 11-29</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> [By JIM VANDEHEI and MIKE ALLEN; “Inside the talks: Fiscal framework emerges”; 11/29/2012;[[http://www.politico.com/story/2012/11/84364.html?hp=t1_3]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Listen to top Democrats and Republicans talk on camera, and it sounds like they</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">— and virtually no chance that doesn’t include their tax rates, too.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation funding breeds partisanship.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Freemark 1/25</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, <[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]]>)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Deal key to avoid collapsing the economy—delaying the deal causes market freakout</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Cox 11/8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Jeff, senior writer for CNBC, “Why US Economy May Be Headed for Another Recession,” </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.cnbc.com/id/49745604]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, AM</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">All the problems investors face—from a fiscal meltdown to the various economic woes</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">react and act more like markets, as opposed to emotional roller coasters."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Kemp 10 Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center,and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Successful presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Hutchison</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">9/21</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is teetering at the edge of a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">the harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Middle East goes nuclear</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">James A. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Russell</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"> (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26,[[http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various factors: (1)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">the peoples of the region, with substantial risk for the entire world.</span>

===Debt Ceiling 1NC=== 
**Debt ceiling compromise likely now but uniqueness doesn’t overwhelm the link---the impact is economic collapse**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klein 1/2</span> Ezra is a politics writer for the Washington Post. “The lessons of the fiscal cliff,” 2013, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/02/the-lessons-of-the-fiscal-cliff/?wprss=rss_ezra-klein]]
There is a narrative in American politics that goes something like this: The White
AND
and so we really will breach the debt ceiling, unleashing economic havoc.

**Transportation funding breeds partisanship.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/25</span>** (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**The impact is growth—now key**
**Maass 1-2** – Harold, the Week's online executive editor (The looming debt-ceiling fight: Worse than the fiscal cliff?, The Week, http://theweek.com/article/index/238312/the-looming-debt-ceiling-fight-worse-than-the-fiscal-cliff)
In many ways, the threat of default in two months is a more serious
AND
role that U.S. government bonds play in the global economy.
Obama is still smarting from the 2011 debt-ceiling dispute, says Neil Munro
AND
authority over the nation's debt ceiling to pressure Obama to shrink future spending."

**Extinction**
Kemp 10 Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at The Nixon Center,
AND
and Asia’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-4
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet’s population.

===Hagel 1NC=== 
**Hagel will get confirmed thanks entirely to Obama political capital – but it could still come undone**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Times 1/8</span>/2013
(http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/jan/8/little-enthusiasm-on-capitol-hill-for-hagel-nomina/#ixzz2HUcSjUfS)
Even before it became official
AND
unravel during the confirmation process.

**Transportation funding breeds partisanship.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/25</span>** (Yonah, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress this Year Look Glum”, The Transport Politic, 25 January 2012, < http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/>)
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**Capital is key to get the confirmation through.**
**Politico**, **1/6**/2013 (Chuck Hagel takes fire from Capitol Hill, p. [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/01/chuck-hagel-takes-fire-from-capitol-hill-85805.html]])
Senate Democrats and Republicans are far from sold on President Barack Obama’s expected nomination of
AND
has to get him across the finish line. Dems will hate this.”

**Hagel confirmation breaks the Washington consensus on Iran**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gray</span> and Miller, writers for Buzzfeed, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/6</span>/2013
(Rosie and Zeke, “Obama Upends Iran Debate By Picking Chuck Hagel,” http://www.buzzfeed.com/rosiegray/obama-updends-iran-debate-by-picking-chuck-hagel)
Their hope — and their foes’ fear — is that Hagel’s confirmation could mean that
AND
some Republicans and some Israeli leaders that American bombs should start falling now.

**That avoids Middle East war and economic meltdown**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hussain</span>, writer and analyst on Middle East politics, 9/12/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>
(Murtaza, “Why war with Iran would spell disaster,”
http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/opinion/2012/09/201291194236970294.html)
After a decade of exhausting and demoralising conflict between the United States and two of
AND
and are at the forefront of pushing a new American conflict with Iran.

**Escalates to extinction**
<span class="tagChar">Hirsch 5</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jorge, Professor of Physics, University of California, San Diego, Ph.D., University of Chicago, “Can a Nuclear Strike on Iran Be Averted”, 11-21-2005, [[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]])</span>
Now that we have outlined what is very close to happening, let us discuss
AND
of the Hiroshima bomb, enough to erase Earth's population many times over.

===Cedes the Political 1NC=== 
**They cedes the political by taking a stance against modern policymaking -- The impact is extinction, the refusal to engage in traditional politics is an abdication of social responsibility that makes social crises inevitable**
**Boggs ‘97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)</span>
The decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America poses a series
AND
of those universal, collective interests that had vanished from civil society. 75

**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"> ( ) They embrace anti-politics – this dooms their project, creates atrocity, and cedes politics to the Right.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Boggs ’97 </span>
(CARL BOGGS – Professor and Ph.D. Political Science, National University, Los Angeles -- Theory and Society 26: 741-780)
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">The false sense of empowerment that comes with such mesmerizing impulses is accompanied by a</span>
AND
universal, collec- tive interests that had vanished from civil society.75
==Kritiks== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taoism 1nC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Death and misfortune are inevitable – the joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – plans to save the world only bring more suffering</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Slabbert 1</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Dealing with loss Express yourself completely, then keep quiet. Be like the forces</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the more we tamper with it, the more damage we will do.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 98</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia,[[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">Why It Is Wrong to Resent Unexpected Changes In Chuang-tzu 18, we</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">takes the morally responsible course of simply accepting the new state of things.</span>
==Topicality== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">T USFG 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Resolved” proves the framework for the resolution is to enact a policy.</span>**
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Words and Phrases 64</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Permanent Edition</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Definition of the word “resolve</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">,”</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">given by Webster is “to express an opinion or determination by resolution or vote; as ‘it was resolved by the legislature;” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is of similar force to the word “enact,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">which is defined by Bouvier as </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">meaning “to establish by law”.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal Government refers to the national government.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hartley ’96</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (John, “American Civics”, p. 39, Google Print)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The term federal government refers to the national government, which is centered in Washington, D.C.</span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">T Underlying 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">A. Interpretation and violation – “Transportation infrastructure” is __strictly defined__ as facilities of transport</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; line-height: 1.5;">Musick 10</span>**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

**Without concrete terms for discussion, disputes become meaningless and valueless, only once a consensus has been arrived at can there be any engagement.**
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Kemerling</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16pt;">97</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> professor of philosophy at Newberry College, (Garth, “Definition and Meaning”, http://www.philosophypages.com/lg/e05.htm)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">We've seen that sloppy</span><span class="underline" style="line-height: 1.5;"> or</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">AND</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">to resolvethem</span><span class="underline" style="line-height: 1.5;"> whenever we can.</span>

===T Energy 1NC=== 
**A. Interpretation – Pipelines are, at best, energy infrastructure not transportation infrastructure**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AJA 11</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Office of the Press Secretary, For Immediate Release September 12, 2011, </span>**[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf|**http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf**]]
(9) INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- (A) IN GENERAL- The
AND
including public and commercial buildings.

**B. Violation – Pipelines are NOT included as a part of transportation infrastructure they are energy infrastructure**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">United States Chamber of Commerce, 10</span> (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)//dm
Step 1 – Definition: Transportation InfrastructureIt is
AND
an element of energy infrastructure.

==Neg Strats== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Samford</span>=== 
Round 2 v. Vestavia HW - Determinism
1NC: T-underlying, T USFG, Taoism K, Cedes the political, Debt ceiling Ptx, Case
2NC: Case, Cedes the political
1NR: T-underlying, T USFG, Ptx
2NR: Case, Cedes the political, T-underlying

Round 4 v. Hooch AL - Port Security
1NC: T-underlying, Debt ceiling Ptx, Bunn CP, Coercion DA, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: Ptx
2NR: Ptx, Case

Round 5 v. Hooch CD - Port Security
1NC: T-underlying, Debt ceiling Ptx, Bunn CP, Coercion DA, Case
2NC: Coercion DA, Case
1NR: Ptx
2NR: Case
===Milton=== 
Round 2 v. Wheeler CK - CCS
1NC: T-energy, Hagel Ptx, Carbon Tax CP, Coercion DA, Case
2NC: Coercion DA, Case
1NR: Ptx, T-energy
2NR: Coercion DA, Case

Round 4 v. Johns Creek DL - Nuclearism
1NC: Taoism K, T-USFG, T-underlying, Case
2NC: Case, Taoism K
1NR: T-USFG
2NR: Taoism K, Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]