=<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Port Security 1ac - Wake Forest </span>__</span>= 

==<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.</span>== 

==<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention One is Inherency</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> –</span>== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vital</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">successful</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> WMD attack are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">high</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz, 7-15</span>-12 – Douglas, “Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]].
The Obama administration has failed to meet a legal deadline for scanning all shipping containers
AND
who wants to get a weapon of mass destruction into the United States.”

<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solutions exist</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> but __drastic__ cuts to the Port Security Grant Program __destroy port security__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cost and technology aren’t barriers – failure to act immediately is __fatal__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, ’12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> more grant investment in infrastructure can solve </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]].
In the decade since Sept. 11, 2001, America's seaports and the federal
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."

==<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> __is the National Preparedness Goal__ – </span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Interagency Operational Plans to strengthen the NPG are due on __September 25th__ – that halts __cyberterror__, __pandemics__ , __natural disasters__ and __transnational threats__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">National preparedness is aimed at strengthening the security and resilience of the nation by preparing </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we appreciate your help in all of our PPD-8 efforts. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cybersecurity</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is vital to prevent __escalatory__ __great power__ nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> at ports //instantly// kill __billions__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States. Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Natural disasters</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]</span>]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transnational threats</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> are __try or die__ __for human extinction__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
The neoconservative movement thrilled to what it called the "unipolar moment." After the
AND
an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.

<span class="Heading4Char">//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective// __risk management__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pertaining to the
AND
September 2011. For questions, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

==<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Energy Security</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – </span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key oil, nuclear and LNG terminals </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">empirically proven</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> that these forms of infrastructure are </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">highly-targeted</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
3.2.2.1 Critical Coastal Targets. Maritime terrorism has hit
AND
security systems. These new regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Three</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">scenarios</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">:</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">a. __Oil__ – Attacks destroy __refineries__ and __three billion tons__ of oil </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign Relations, backgrounder. “Targets for Terrorism: Ports,” January, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports?¶ Yes. Experts warn that U
AND
-five Islamist extremists entered the United States by hiding in shipping containers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily// overcome</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11 </span>– “Oil tanker terror hijacks easy, attacks complex,” 5-21, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-05-21-terror-plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential
AND
pull off a terror attack on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin, Masters in IR from Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
If the conflict-ridden and oil-rich Middle East today is crucial to
AND
before reaching the zenith of a disaster which is already in the making.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. __Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__ terror attacks</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study says nuclear plant designs need stepped-up attention to security,” Government Security Magazine, [[http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/25600?c=infrastructure_protection]].
While protections for nuclear plants from possible terror attacks have improved dramatically since 9/
AND
environment. Zirconium is the material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>. Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]].
"As a physician, I contend that nuclear technology threatens life on our planet
AND
, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and parts of South America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">c. __LNG__ – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LNG explosions outweigh nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit|www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2FDownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3DBrittlePower3PtCombo.pdf%26title%3DBrit]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Terrorism Advantage </span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Attacks at US ports are //inevitable// and //quickly// cause __unprecedented__ chaos – __federal__ action is vital </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘6</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Continued Vulnerability of the Global Maritime Transportation System,” March 9th, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]].
But the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if
AND
. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Three scenarios</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">;</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">a. __Nuclear__</span> <span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">terror</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – //Hiroshima-level// detonations happen </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">even without expertise</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
International terrorists have asserted their intention to acquire nuclear weapons, and have an increasing
AND
, such as the 14 th Street Bridge in DC, or midtown Manhattan

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. It’s the __most dangerous__ nuclear threat because __deterrence__ fails </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘4</span> – Mohammed, political analyst, “Extinction!” al-ahram weekly, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]].
The most critical moment was the one when the Soviet Union collapsed and fragmented into
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">b. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bioterror</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – containers are //easy// vessels for </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">high-lethality</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> bioweapons</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
There is no effective detection equipment for biological and chemical weapons. There are many
AND
cargo and empty containers should be minimized to reduce terrorism at US ports.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Human extinction</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 13pt;">results</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parson, ‘6</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> – Ed, University of Michigan, “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” </span>[[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. </span>
For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">c. __Agroterror__ – invasive species at ports //wreck// __biodiversity__ and __disease prevention__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Leggiere, ‘10</span><span class="small">. Phil, citing a study from professors at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “</span>Agroterror Prevention in Need of Overhaul,” HS Today, 9-4, [[http://www.hstoday.us/content/view/10085/149]]
When one thinks of border protection thoughts naturally focus on illegal immigration, drugs,
AND
law enforcement problems, and the early detection and control of infectious diseases.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Diversity loss</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> will cross the __tipping point of irreversibility__, causing __global extinction__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walsh, ‘10</span>. Bryan, senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment, previously Tokyo bureau chief for TIME. “Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference?” Ecocentric Blog @ TIME, 10-18, http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few
AND
forgive us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.

<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> at ports //instantly// kill __billions__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States. Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">reverse-causal</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> – the plan leads to </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">new tech</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> that independently solves </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frittelli, ‘5</span> – John F., Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” May 27, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]].
Enhanced security has benefits as well as costs. Many experts see economic benefits to
AND
will also speed the customs filing process for U.S. importers.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We //don’t// need to //eliminate// terror, only </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">minimize risk</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Terrorism is a multi-dimensional risk that will probably never be eliminated with limited
AND
dirty bomb or a weapon of mass destruction arrives at a US seaport.