=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">The World Health Report clarifies universal health care.</span>
[World Health Organization. [[@http://www.who.int/whr/2010/en/index.html]]]
“Universal health care ... cost is covered.”

Even if “ought” implies a moral obligation, prefer functional obligations, because we can’t justify a moral statement without an appeal to an “is” premise.
**MACINTYRE**
[Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981. Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame “After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory.” University of Notre Dame Press.
“For although each ... an ‘ought’ conclusion.”

**MACINTYRE** continues
“For what in ... expected to serve.”

S = consistency with functional obligation of the United States

The function of the state is to create a legislative system to preserve the wellbeing of its citizens.
**LOCKE**
[John Locke, 1690. “Second Treatise on Government CHAP. IX., Of the Ends of Political Society and Government”]
“But though men ... of the people.”

Function is determined by reason for continued existence. The preamble frames what the reason for existence of the United States is.
**PREAMBLE**
[[[@http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/preamble]]]

Contention 1 is Pandemics.
Universal health care solves disease outbreaks through preventive care- key to long term solvency.
**SKLAR**
[Holly 2002, Coauthor of “Raise the Floor”, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Rolling the Dice on Our Nations’ Health”, December 19,[[@http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.htm]]
“Imagine if the ... any bioterror attack.”

And, pandemics cause mass death.
**GREGER 06**
[Michael Greger, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Society of the U.S. & Graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine. "Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching." 2006.]
“A pandemic today ... worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”

And, almost 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance.
**CECERE 09**
[Harvard Gazette. "New Study Finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of coverage." David Cecere. Cambridge Health Alliance. Thursday, September 17, 2009.]
“Nearly 45,000 annual ... excess deaths annually.”

Contention 2 is Economy.
Lack of universal health care destroys business creation- affirming solves.
**FAIRLIE et al 11**
[Robert Fairlie, Kanika Kapur, and Susan Gates. "Is Employer-Based Health Insurance A Barrier To Entrepreneurship?" Journal of Health Economics 30 (Jan. 2011) 146-162.]
“To address concerns ... for future research.”

The brink is now- U.S. economy is about to collapse- keeping jobs up is key.
**DAVIS AND WOLF 11/1**
[Susan Davis and Richard Wolf, USA TODAY. November 1st, 2012. "A Mess Awaits the Next President."]
“Confrontations abroad. A ... in the Congress.”

Economic collapse leads to global conflicts between global powers- unemployment is the internal link.
**MEAD**
[Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations. “ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE SEMINAR AND NEWS CONFERENCE REGARDING G-7 JOBS CONFERENCE IN DETROIT,” Federal News Service, March 11, 1994.]
“Okay, well, as ... English soccer riot.”


Contention 3 is the Advocacy.
I advocate a single payer system that extends coverage to the current uninsured.
**MCCALLY**
[Dr. Michael McCally, Professor in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, Oregon. Single Payer National Health Insurance published by the Willamette University Health Journal]
“Single-payer insurance ... or prescription drugs.”

Funding comes from already existing programs.
**MCCALLY 2**
“A single-payer ... for-profit corporation.”

And, empirical analysis shows that single-pay provides more efficient care than status quo.
**MCCALLY 3**
“Opponents of government ... take early retirement.”

And, only single payer provides universal access without raising costs, prefer my evidence – multiple independent studies all generated the same conclusions.
**MCCALLY 4**
Studies in the ... while covering everyone.

And, single-payer saves billions annually.
**FRIEDMAN 12**
[Gerald Friedman. Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. Economy in Numbers. "Funding a national single-Payer system, "Medicare for all" would save billions, and could be redistributive." Dollars and Sense. March/April 2012.]
“The Expanded & ... could be funded.”

And, there's no waiting lists; the government can subsidize important treatments while placing co-pays on more mundane ones to discourage free-riding, so there's no waiting times or overuse, empirically proven by the French system.
**KLEIN 07**
[Ezra Klein, Editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg. His work focuses on domestic and economic policymaking, as well as the political system that's constantly screwing it up]. The Health of Nations: How Europe, Canada, and our own VA do health care better. The Prospect. April 22, 2007.]
“Given all this ... well to emulate”
==Negative== 
In the status quo, the U.S. has a much better cancer survival rate than any other universal healthcare country.
**MCCAUGHEY 07**
September 14, 2007 Cancer Killers. Betsey McCaughey. Wall Street Journal.
"Sadly, these ads will waste … it due to shortages of equipment and staff."

But, universal health care kills medical innovation which is key to solve for the most deadly diseases.
**HOWARD 07**
Paul Howard, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. "A Story Michael Moore Didn’t Tell." July 17 2007. The Washington Post.
"Michael Moore's "Sicko" is now … sickest and most vulnerable patients."

**MCCAUGHEY 2** provides two additional warrants
"Early diagnosis is important… make new drugs available faster.

And, cancer outweighs
1) Cancer is a much bigger problem than lack of access for a few- affects all of society, not just the current uninsured.
**MCCAUGHEY 3**
"International comparisons establish that the …anywhere else on the globe."

2) Cancer is responsible for 1 in 4 deaths in the U.S. ― it’s the most important disease of which we need to continue developing solutions against.
**ACS 10**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts & Figures 2010. Atlanta, GA. 2010.</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">"Cancer accounts for nearly 1 … and death due to cancer."</span>

3) Time Frame.

4) Scope.
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
Justified Definition
[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/justify]

V: Appropriate governmental action

VC: Consistency with US policy maker’s foreign affair obligations

Government obligations are the obligations of the individuals acting in a government role.
**Wollstein**
[Jarret B. Wollstein, writer and founder of International Society for Individual Liberty, “The Nature and Morality of Government”, Ludwig von Mises Institute, http://mises.org/daily/4078, 1969]
What determines what is proper … no different from the individual.

C1: Responsibility to Protect
The UN clarifies what R2P entails
**UN**
[Office of the Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, “The Responsibility to Protect”, http://www.un.org/en/preventgenocide/adviser/responsibility.shtml, 2012+]
Prevention requires apportioning responsibility to … of the Responsibility to Protect.

R2P is necessary, because it is the only way to resolve conflict sovereignty and human rights abuse
**ICISS 1**
[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]
The debate on military intervention … termed ”the responsibility to protect.”

**ICISS** continues:
The emerging principle in question … by NATO allies in Kosovo.

And, the U.S is obligated to protect, since it has already adopted the protocol
**CFR 3**
[Council on Foreign Relations, “UN-Divided”, CFR, http://www.cfr.org/un/un-divided/p9434#_edn1, Winter 2005/06]
In 2004 these idealist principles … in the formal American position.

There’s tons of legal backing for R2P
**ICISS 2**
[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]
The notion that there is …of the question of authority.


R2P ensures that interventions only occurs when absolutely needed. 3 ways:

A. Intervention is a last resort
**ICISS 3**
[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]
Every diplomatic and non-military avenue … it would not have succeeded

B. Intervention is proportional
**ICISS 4**
[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]
The scale, duration and intensity … principles involved are clear enough.

C. Intervention only occurs if success if feasible
**ICISS 5**
[International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, “The Responsibility to Protect, ICISS, 2001]
Military action can only be … action is no longer justified.


R2P is accepted by countries globally
**CSCAP**
[www.cscap.org, Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific]
The Responsibility to Protect (RtoP) … in the Asia Pacific region.
==Negative== 
US-China relations are strong now.
**KISSINGER**
[Henry A. Kissinger, Former National Security Advisor, The Future of U.S.-Chinese Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, [[@http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137245/henry-a-kissinger/the-future-of-us-chinese-relations]], April 2012]
On January 19, 2011, U.S. …of the U.S.-Chinese relationship.

Intervention has empirically killed china relations.
**Valentino 11**
(The True Costs of Humanitarian Intervention The Hard Truth About a Noble Notion BenjaminA.Valentino november / december 2011 Foreign Affairs Volume 90 Number 6)
Another set of costs associated … un Security Council had authorized.

China doesn’t support human rights intervention in general as it fears intervention in its treatment of minorities. Intervention hurts relations.
**Bajoria 11**
The Dilemma of Humanitarian Intervention Author: Jayshree BajoriaUpdated: March 24, 2011 Council on Foreign Relations The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is an independent, nonpartisan membership organization, think tank, and publisher.
Beyond the operational and political, …international institutions and global governance.

US-Sino relations are key to global peace and warming
**Zhou 8**
Assistant Professor in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at Hobart and William Smith Colleges – NY -- Dr. Jinghao, Does China’s Rise Threaten the United States? Asian Perspective, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2008, pp. 171-182
Third, there are many common … terrorism and promoting world peace.

===== ===== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]