Any questions email jarassick@gmail.com

[[toc]]
=Aff= 
==Chaos Aff== 
===Act 1 is Chaos=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Here we are, gathered in Austin, Texas for the 16th annual Longhorn Classic. We really are significant, aren’t we? Just kidding. We’re all just dust, sitting on dust, convinced of our greatness as we wait to fall back into the sun, returning unto an eternity of non-being. Forgotten. No trace left behind.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nietzsche 1873 </span>[“On Truth and Lies in a Non-moral Sense”, pg 7]
Once upon a time, in some out of the way corner of that universe
AND
its most particular effects contain within themselves something of the same deceitful character.

Recall the river styx, the barrier between life and death, from being to non-being. This is an illusion. Instead, both sides are non-being and life is the short in-between. This is humanness. We’re always on the way out, even if we don’t realize it. Thought, like humanity itself, must be a flash in the night, a single moment of chaotic self-immolation against the implacable black abyss.
Bataille 45 (Georges, “On Nietzsche”, pg. 173-176)//RSW

"'Life." I said. "is bound to be lost in death, 
AND
grown from unfathomable experience, comically perched on the stake used for impalement.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We control uniqueness-- Unpredictability and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. Stalin, Adolf, Franco, Pol Pot and Truman all taught us the result of trying to institutionalize control.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gordan ‘03</span> (Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96)

I have a recurring dream: I am lost at sea. Murderous waves crash
AND
not really be there” (Stamps, 1980, p. i).

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The drive to secure inevitable disasters culminates in nihilism and endless violence. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Der Derian 98</span> – Prof Political Science at University of Mass. [James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, 1998. On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.]

The will to power, then, should not be confused with a Hobbesian perpetual
AND
owes this artificial strength to the illusion of being protected by a god."



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rob and I affirm transportation infrastructure as chaos. We are 9/11, titanic, the challenger. We are all prisoners, waiting for our execution. Choose not to grovel, beg or cry in a vain attempt to postpone the inevitable. Look the hangman in the eyes as he ties the noose and spit in his face when he’s done. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Joanne Faulkner, </span>ARC Research Fellow in the School of History and Philosophy at the University of New South Wales, Spring/Autumn <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span>, “The Innocence of Victimhood Versus the “Innocence of Becoming”: Nietzsche, 9/11, and the “Falling Man””, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Project MUSE, umn-rks
Most significantly, for the purposes of this essay, we can perhaps see now
AND
be out in the air … it must have felt like flying.” 33


===Act 2 is The Political=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Politics is dead – acceleration of information has ensured the government and socius is non-responsive and inert. Bullet-spraying each other with information just neutralizes us and heavily distorts our ability to perceive reality.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard, ’92 (</span>Jean, Pataphysics of Year 2000, [online] LH)

Outside of this gravitational pull which keeps bodies in orbit, all the atoms of
AND
us, it disappears under the microscope or into the stereophony of information.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Not only our politics, but also our language, suffers from this over-proliferation of meaning – our speech acts are progressively destroying reality.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard, ’10 </span>(Jean, Carnival and Cannibal; Ventriloquous Evil, p. 70-73)

In the Promethean perspective of unlimited growth, there is not merely the desire to
AND
another form of understanding or intelligence, which is the intelligence of mystery.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">That turns us into zombies – preventing us from living or dying</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard, ’93 </span>(Jean, Symbolic Exchange and Death, p. 185-187)

Pursued and censured everywhere, death springs up everywhere again. No longer as apocalyptic
AND
it is clear that only death can put an end to political economy.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Reformist politics is a joke. No matter how many policies we propose, they don’t do anything to bring happiness because we live in an inverted totalitarianism in which people are largely illiterate and political engagement just plugs us further into this fascist system and ensures our annihilation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hedges, ‘09 –</span> Thom interviews Chris Hedges (fifteen years as a war correspondent for the New York Times, author, senior fellow at The Nation Institute in New York City, Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, received the Amnesty International Global Award for Human Rights Journalism, taught at Columbia University, New York University and Princeton University, and is currently the F. Ross Johnson-Connaught Distinguished Visitor in American Studies at the Centre for the Study of the United States at The University of Toronto) about his book "Empire of Illusion", 21 July 2009, Transcribed by Suzanne Roberts, Portland Psychology Clinic, http://www.thomhartmann.com/blog/2009/07/transcript-chris-hedges-empire-illusion-21-july-2009 MRL

Thom: So great to have you here. In synopsis you paint a rather
AND
ideal but the actual levers of power are driven by very destructive forces.


===Act 3 is Theatre=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Debate is theater. This gives us a unique opportunity to grapple with death and destruction in a metaphoric space. This form of engagement is a pre-requisite to determining value.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Razinsky 9</span> (Liran, University of Wisconsin, “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille”)[rkezios]

Thus we see that the stakes are high. What is at stake is the
AND
given by cultures, which inscribe it in the general order of things.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Politics is theater too, except it usually ends in farce. Only affirming the resolution as tragedy ruptures the dogmatic impotence of the status quo. Answering our aff with a rational political proposal is bringing a knife to a gunfight. </span>

Jason <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Winfree</span>, Assoc Prof Philosophy at California State University, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2009</span>
[The Obssessions of George Bataille: Community and Communication ed. Mitchell/Winfree p. 34-39]
The character of this psychological structure requires analysis the Left cannot provide, beholden as
AND
dismal dreams," says Bataille (OC 1: 528/VE 226).


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Status quo politics fail precisely because they don’t acknowledge everything is theatre. This breeds disengaged passivity – turns their offense</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Antonio ’95, </span>Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995

According to Nietzsche, the "subject" is Socratic culture's most central, durable
AND
and overreaching and untrammeled ressentiment paves the way for a new type of tyrant

==Camus 1AC== 
===1=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention one is peeking into the abyss:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We begin our tale in media res. Its two thousand and something years after the death of god; humanity has all but annihilated itself in the last world war. The survivors are left to fend for themselves in what used to be America:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cormac McCarthy writes in The Road:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">“By then all stores of food had given out and murder was everywhere upon the land. The world soon to be largely populated by men who would eat your children in front of your eyes and the cities themselves held by cores of blackened looters who tunneled among the ruins and crawled from the rubble white of tooth and eye carrying charred and anonymous tins of food in nylon nets like shoppers in the commissaries of hell. The soft black talc blew through the streets like squid ink uncoiling along a sea floor and the cold crept down and the dark came early and the scavengers passing down the steep canyons with their torches trod silky holes in the drifted ash that closed behind them silently as eyes. Out on the roads the pilgrims sank down and fell over and died and the bleak and shrouded earth went trundling past the sun and returned again as trackless and as unremarked as the path of any nameless sisterworld in the ancient dark beyond.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">(Cormac McCarthy in “The Road”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The world of The Road is indicative of a very core fact about our world: it’s absurd and finite; devoid of external meaning. There are no moral codes and god is nothing more than the corpse of your mind.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Camus explains in The Myth of Sisyphus… </span>

(Albert, Nobel Prize winner, existential badass, “The Myth of Sisyphus and other essays”)

All great deeds and all great thoughts have a ridiculous beginning. Great works are
AND
necessary to take the same rapid inventory on the plane of the intelligence.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Back to McCarthy, this time about the Man:</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">“He walked out in the gray light and stood and he saw for a brief moment the absolute truth of the world. The cold relentless circling of the intestate earth. Darkness implacable. The blind dogs of the sun in their running. The crushing black vacuum of the universe. And somewhere two hunted animals trembling like ground-foxes in their cover. Borrowed time and borrowed world and borrowed eyes with which to sorrow it.” </span>


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Destiny finds us in meaninglessness: it’s impossible to determine the difference between a choice and a coin flip. But to mirror the ethics of the coin is to become the grand architects of violence, and to answer the abyss with suicide is to welcome the Great Silence. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Camus explains in The Rebel:</span>

(Albert Camus, 1956, “The Rebel”, pg. 4-8)//RSW//

//God is deceitful; the whole world (myself included) is deceitful; therefore//
//AND//
//limited situation, the dark victory in which heaven and earth are annihilated.//


//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The second choice we have when we meet the gaze of reality is the Revolt: the choice to be overcome with nihilism but to continue to struggle anyway. In Greek myth, Prometheus tricks Zeus into giving up sacrificial meat for the good of man. In punishment, Zeus takes fire back into Olympus and leaves men in the dark. Prometheus chooses to rebel and steals fire, hiding it in a giant fennel stalk and delivering it to humanity in the night. His choice to renounce indifference to suffering reveals rebellion as an act of love that eventually chains him to the mountain, every day being eaten alive by a vulture. His eternal suffering is his destiny, but his revolt is to shout “never!” when the vulture descends, to rattle his chains and struggle against the inevitable and to defy Zeus as an expression of compassion for man. This means choosing to be exhausted masses without God.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Camus again:</span>//

//(Albert Camus, 1956, “The Rebel”, 303-306)//RSW

Finally, it is those who know how to rebel, at the appropriate moment
AND
divinity in order to share in the struggles and destiny of all men.





<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thus: In the face of absurdity, Rob and I affirm an ethic of the wanderer. This act constitutes our revolt. Just as the man refuses to commit suicide and keeps walking down the road, an ethic of the wanderer affirms the paradox of existence in the face of nihilism. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Underlying the resolutional question lies a more fundamental one about the nature of the journey. A precondition to determining the benefit of increased transportation infrastructure is asking ourselves why travel in the first place. Our affirmative is not a roadmap to American hegemony or economic primacy. Rather, think of us as Virgil guiding Dante through the inferno. Or we’re Dante. Or maybe Satan… but it doesn’t really matter. What does is that we stare absurdity in the face, dust off our boots and hit the road.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Caranfa 01 </span>(Angelo; Instructor of Philosophy at Stonehill College; “The Aesthetic Harmony of How Life Should Be Lived: Van Gogh, Socrates, Nietzsche”; The Journal of Aesthetic Education; JSTOR)//RSW
Like van Gogh and Socrates, Nietzsche also sought deliverance. Through Zarathustra, whose
AND
and evil, as his other book Beyond Good and Evil confirms.6

===2=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Contention 2 is under construction </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The 1AC is resolved against the world: to will against something that we have no power over. To refuse to drift along the ideological currents of Destiny and to fight against the undertow, knowing our struggle is endless and futile. To take the road less traveled, to hollow out and occupy subjectivity and fight against the rising of the black sun; we fight with windmills. In this way the act of wandering becomes our Sisyphean burden. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Camus again, this time in The Plague:</span>

(Albert Camus, 1948, “The Plague”, Pg. 117-8)//RSW

Tarrou squared his shoulders against the back of the chair, then moved his head
AND
you all this, doctor?" The reply came promptly: "Suffering."


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">This debate should be viewed through the lens of becoming. To create yourself is to exist. We’ll defend how we affirm the resolution as a means of confronting absurdity. After all, it’s all you could really ask for anyway. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sartre writes… </span>

(Jean Paul; frenchy, existential badass; “On existentialism”)

Given that men are free and that tomorrow they will freely decide what man will
AND
the organization, the ensemble of the relationships which make up these undertakings.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Before the 1NC cries and says we’re jacking their ground, debate is not a gift from a divine creator. There is no spirit to defend, and their establishment of rules is only used to attach themselves to a system which will eventually atrophy and die off without progressive developments within the game itself, anyway.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Johnston 96</span>
[ian,” there's nothing nietzsche couldn't teach ya about the raising of the wrist”, [[http://www.mala.bc.ca/~johnstoi/introser/nietzs.htm]], a: 1/6/7]

Take, for example, the offside rule in soccer. Without that the game
AND
to a system grounded in the truth of nature has simply been mistaken.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The role of the ballot is to use this debate to create meaning. We are tangled in a web of subjectivity and the finality of discourse is nothing more than a well-constructed illusion. We ask that you abandon the goal of an absolute truth and instead embrace our rhetoric as a vessel for traversing meaning.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Gershberg 08</span> (Zachary; Ph.D. in philosophy; “A rhetoric of existentialism”; etd.lsu.edu/docs/available/etd-09052008-114605/unrestricted/gershbergdiss.pdf)

A rhetoric of existentialism begins by admitting the deficient features of human communication. It
AND
, acknowledges the impossibility of perfect communication, and distrusts ad populum reasoning.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And, their framework arguments are born out of a hatred of the beauty of humanity by appealing to some transcendent value. Rather, you should prioritize arguments that are most conducive to the affirmation of life</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Smith, 7 </span>(Daniel, 2007, “DELEUZE AND THE QUESTION OF DESIRE: TOWARD AN IMMANENT THEORY OF ETHICS,” Parrhesia Journal, Ph.D in philosophy from University of Chicago, professor at Purdue University, JPL)

Now according to Deleuze, this immanent approach to the question of ethics was developed
AND
, in Nietzsche; or between passive and active affections, in Spinoza).

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Although the 1AC is drawing to a close, our aff isn’t. We aren’t an answer to a question or the finish line of a race, but an opening of a line of questioning. Just as humanity sprung from the void, so does our discussion of the topic. All we know is that we’re resolved to keep wandering.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Akram ‘91</span> (Tanweer; Holiday, “The Philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre”; 18 January 1991, accessed 11/7/07; [[http://www.bradcolbourne.com/exist.html)%3cGender|http://www.bradcolbourne.com/exist.html)<Gender]] modified>

In Albert Camus's philosophical and literary works the recognition of the absurdity of human existence
AND
discovers the absurdity of existence when he/she correctly perceives the universe.
=Neg= 
==Nietzsche== 

===1NC=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Political values or metaphysics cannot give life a higher meaning; we are still bits of cosmic dust sitting on a rock, convinced of our own importance because we “have thought.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nietzsche 1873</span> [“On Truth and Lies in a Non-moral Sense”, pg 7]
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Once upon a time, in some out of the way corner of that universe </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">its most particular effects contain within themselves something of the same deceitful character.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The 1ac mirrors a system of politics that seeks to justify ressentiment through a structuring of the event of existence. You must refuse to concern yourself with the affirmative’s incessant paranoia about our insecure world instead affirming chance as necessary to love life.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nietzsche 1879</span> [“Human, all too human”, maxim 284]
//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The means to real peace</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.— No government admits any more that it keeps an </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">indeed you know, comes from a cloud—and from up high.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The singular event of the diceroll contains all of determination in destiny but throws it to chance in a capricious act of life’s affirmation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Deleuze 83 </span>[Gilles,, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, ‘The Dicethrow’, p. 29-30]
Whereas the thrown dice affirm chance once and for all, the dice which fall
AND
a friend of destiny whose destiny itself assures the eternal return as such.

==Bataille== 
===Excess=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We are children of the sun, actors in the cosmic play. The sun operates by an exonomics of excess, showering us in vastly more energy than is necessary for life. What is leftover is called “excess”. This excess is inevitable and attempts to contain it via utility inevitably fail.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Land 92</span> – lecturer in Continental Philosophy at Warwick University (Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation” pg. 23-24)[rkezios]
Belonging alongside ‘sacrifice’ in Bataille’s work is the word ‘expenditure’, dépense.
AND
of a true end, which does not serve anything’ [VII 298].


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Modern World is driven by the search for a solution- a solution that always disappoints. This search is a struggle that estranges the person from their self. Only expenditure offers a solution.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bataille 67</span> (Georges, historian, librarian and philosopher, The Accursed Share, P. 129, ADP)

At the origin of industrial society, based on the primacy and autonomy of commodities
AND
in one way or another is precisely what estranges him from himself?


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Growth-oriented politics links to all their offense to the alt beause they embrace bad excess. We call this depletion.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stoekl 7 </span>professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University (Allan, 8 October 2007, “Bataille's Peak : Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” ­­­198, Ebrary)//RK//

//Depletion was there from the outset: in the first lump of coal burned,//
//AND//
//the logic of depletion: finitude at the heart of the seemingly infinite.//

//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nuclear holocaust is the endpoint of productivity. The energy you save will become uncontainable. Just like an overgrown forest, it’s not a question of if, but when it burns.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Stoekl 7</span> professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University (Allan, 8 October 2007, “Bataille's Peak : Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” ­­­43-45, Ebrary)// KP

I stress the importance of LeBlanc’s thesis— that violent conflict arising out of ever
AND
pure perte]. (OC, 7: 170; AS, 181)


===Death=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Debate is theater. Like Perseus looking at Medusa in the mirror, voting negative results in an intimate encounter with death that is critical to value to life in the real world. Their calculus results in policy paralysis which turns any net benefit to their framework.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Razinsky 9</span> (Liran, University of Wisconsin, “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille”)[rkezios]

Thus we see that the stakes are high. What is at stake is the
AND
given by cultures, which inscribe it in the general order of things.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The death drive is an inevitable part of the human psyche. The affirmative attempts to shove it “under the rug” via a fetishistic obsession with policy solutions. This is the precondition for the worst atrocities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Žižek 2009</span> (Slavoj Žižek, researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana, The Sublime Object of Ideology (Second Edition), January 5, 2009, pg. xvii-xxviii)//ctc//jc

Psychoanalytic 'essentialism' is paradoxical in so far as it is precisely psychoanalysis - at least
AND
the sexes is an acknowledgement of this basic antagonism, this basic impossibility.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fear of death manifests itself in fear of the other, resulting in exclusionary dichotomies. This ends in extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard 76</span> (Jean, “Symbolic Exchange and Death”, pg. 125-126)[rkezios]

Racism is modern. Previous races or cultures were ignored or eliminated, but never
AND
serving as their model: the exclusion of the dead and of death.

===The Scythe=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">In the face of rationality, sacrifice the 1AC. This sacred act liberates humanity from the shackles of modern politics which culminates in nuclear annihiliation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Goldhammer 5</span> - Ph.D. in political science from the University of California, Berkeley (Jesse, “The Headless Republic”, pg 10-14)[rkezios]
In chapter 4, I examine how the renegade surrealist Georges Bataille used the sacrificial
AND
sign that a community in crisis is pregnant with a new political order.

===Unknowing=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Death is inevitable and their form of poltics is an attempt to externally know the world which reduces it and humanity to a set of isolated, perfectable endpoints which posits humans as nothing more than clever monkeys trained to do some task in pursuit of a grape.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bataille 45</span> (Georges, “On Nietzsche”, pg. 173-176)//RSW//

//"'Life." I said. "is bound to be lost in death,// 
//AND//
//grown from unfathomable experience, comically perched on the stake used for impalement.//


//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">When confronted with the inevitability of death, our answer is simple: transgress. Spit in the face of death by refusing to grant it a stranglehold on existence. Only a politics of transgression ruptures status quo textual codes that guarantee life negation</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pettman 02</span> (Dominic; PhD, Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne;//
//BA (honors), Department of English & Cultural Studies, University of Melbourne; Chair and Associate Professor, Culture and Media; “After the Orgy- Towards a politics of exhaustion”; Pg. 37)//RSW

Transgression and transcendence, are two common responses to a perceived threat of the End
AND
remain reconciled like pieces of broken glass to slash curious but unprepared readers.

==Heidegger== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Techno-strategic planning removes us from the consequences of our actions, risking nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bleiker, 03</span> (Roland, Poli.Sci., Int’l Rtlns, U. Queensland, “Aestheticising Terrorism: Alternative Approaches to 11 September,” Australian Journal of Politics and History, EBSCO)
The complexities of terrorism, and of world politics in general, cannot be understood
AND
guided its strategic “logic” continue to delineate our understanding of security.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The affirmative’s depiction of the international system reflects a securitizing ontology that necessitates war –states protect themselves from insecurity by violently managing the world </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Burke, 07</span> (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2 [Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, page @ http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html]
The epistemology of violence I describe here (strategic science and foreign policy doctrine)
AND
more sustainable, peaceful and non-violent global rule of the political.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Calculative thought spirals into nihilism – control over nature becomes an end in itself</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">de Beistegui, 97</span> (Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick (Miguel, Heidegger and the Political, ed. by K. Ansell-Pearson and S. Critchely, p.71, ASG)
What monstrousness does Heidegger have in mind here? In what sense can technology
AND
“experiences” (Erlebnisse), which he flaunts as his “truths.”


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">That outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rojcewicz, 06</span> (Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University, Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)
Heidegger now launches an extended discussion of the danger inherent in modern technology.
AND
the earth," and yet their self-blindness would make them slaves.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Alternative text: Suspend calculative thought. The affirmative’s emphasis on quick-fix solutions ignores the root cause of their harms and ensures error replication – temporarily suspending our calculative thought is critical to re-engaging the ontological question</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Korous, 97</span> (Copeland winner, all around bad ass, Yale JD, Emory BA Philosophy, Become What you Are 1997 22-25)
The thought that inhabits critique is not bent on achieving quick and efficient solutions.
AND
that rivers are not primarily stockpiles of potential energy waiting to be unleashed.
===2NC Turns Case- TI=== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The K turns the case. Our understanding of infrastructure is intrinsically tied to our understanding of being.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Edwards 02 </span>(Paul; University of Michigan, published in Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn; “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems”)//RSW

In the same way, infrastructures can be said to co-construct society and
AND
separation of society from technology in the modernist settlement¶ (Latour 1999).


==<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Fear of Death</span>== 
===<span style="text-decoration: none;">1NC</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our society is held in the grip of intense thanatophobia. Our fear of dying is so prevalent in every aspect of our lives that it is constantly repressed into the subconscious. Americans are fighting a new war on the western front, one against death itself.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Steven I. Friedland</span>, Professor of Law at Nova Souteastern University, Shepard Broad Law Center, Cleveland State University Journal of Law and Health, 10 J.L. & Health 95, 1995/1996

The demise of the belief in the good death has prompted the adoption of a

AND

. This fear of death, in turn, has spurred its avoidance.









<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The affirmative replicates this evangelism of fear through its constructions of violence, war and destruction, perpetuating the drive towards immortality.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Louis Rene Beres</span>, Professor of International Law at Purdue, Self-Determination, International Law and Survival on Planet Earth, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Spring 1994

Humankind is different. Of course, the spectacle of catastrophe and annihilation has been

AND

oneself free from the penalty of dying, of being killed." [[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=266a48fa07f0758488d7236cb18d5f61&docnum=2&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkAA&_md5=63bc0c71fa436f929b1ee3d2fc723b56#n49#n49|49]]







<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Subpoint A- Kill to Save</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">In a paradoxical attempt to rebel against death, humans turn to promises of immortality through absolute loyalty to political ideology. We demand the slaughter of our enemies as part of an impossible quest to destroy death itself. War itself is not the issue but rather the death drive behind it.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Louis Rene Beres</span>, Professor of International Law at Purdue, International Journal on World Peace, No. 3, Volume 16, September 1st, 1999

Behind the play of nations and their wars lies the wish of individual citizens,

AND

primal terror of individuals, but it is their fate to create necropolis.







<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The process of securing life and developing means to destroy in order to save is part of a broader system of neoliberal violence. The current death drive is not new as the gulag, holocaust and genocide are all past examples of the lesson the United States federal government has apparently missed; humanity cant be saved by destroying itself. </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Boaventura de Santos,</span> Prof at Univ of Coimbra, April 2003, “Collective Suicide?”, Bad Subjects, Issue # 63

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it

AND

to pay the health costs of the world's poorest countries for four years.





<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Subpoint B- White Noise</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The Aff’s discourse of apocalyptic scenarios absent plan action motivates a desire for frenetic action, white noise, and material acquisition, forming the philosophical foundation for consumerism.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Marc Weeks, and Frederic Maurel</span>, “Voyages Across the Web of Time; Angkarn, Nietzsche and Temporal Colonization, Journal of Southeast Asian Studies, September 1st, 1999

It becomes particularly significant when we realize that the fear of death (thanatophobia),

AND

role in driving the irrational and exponential growth of a globalizing free market.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">This drive to constantly acquire and consume transforms the world into a materialist wasteland, devoid of meaning. The greatest threat is not nuclear war – it is avoiding nuclear war only to fall prey to an eternity of counterfeit existence.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Michael E. Zimmerman,</span> Professor of Philosophy at Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, 1994

Heidegger asserted that human self-assertion, combined with the eclipse of being,

AND

state of ontological damnation: hell on earth, masquerading as material paradise.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Subpoint C- The Sovereign Sword</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The attempts to control, manage, and ensure safety of the population is based on the power of death and its underside, the power to warn and strike fear. This form of control is the root of all 20th century atrocities as the sovereign sword has diminished in favor of the violence of the population.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Michel Foucault</span>, The History of Sexuality – Volume One, 1978

Yet wars were never as bloody as they have been since the nineteenth century,

AND

species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.





<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The repression of mortality is sustained in political reality by a series of linguistic prohibitions and taboos concerning the subject of death. While the Affirmative builds the walls of fear ever higher, the negative offers a different approach:</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Text: Vote negative to shatter the silence surrounding death through an absolute rejection of the Affirmative’s fantasies of immortality in order to embrace hope in the uncertain present.</span>



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The duty of those who judge is to relentlessly tear down the taboo surrounding death at every turn – a Negative ballot signifies an important political stance, and begins the deconstruction of the deathwatch.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Louise Harmon,</span> Professor of Law and Medical Ethics at the Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Center at Touro College, 77 Minnesota Law Review 1, November 1992, gender paraphrased

There is also a direct relationship between our attitude toward death and its status as

AND

to the dying person, but also to those who gather around him.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Additionally, we must separate hope from solvency claims and calculability, or the situation makes hope impossible. We are asking you to seek hope in an uncertain present rather than try to avoid impending disaster.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Brian Massumi</span>, Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal, and Mary Zournazi, Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory, 2002, Hope: New Philosophies for Change; New York: Routledge; p. 211-212

Yes - the idea of hope in the present is vital. Otherwise we endlessly

AND

be solved. It's utopian thinking, for me, that's `hopeless'.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Furthermore, we don’t run from politics; we embrace it. The best political stance is to reject calculations of probability and policy outcomes, and instead embrace a personal stance of hope. Predictability and the uncertainty of hope are mutually exclusive, so choose wisely.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Isabelle Stengers,</span> Professor of Philosophy at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, and Mary Zournazi, a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; Hope: New Philosophies for Change; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 245-247

I think probability is often associated with the idea of chance - so do you

AND

be grateful as long as you are able to hope or to think.





<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Embrace the current world, the status quo, for all its faults, to find the joy in it, DO NOT link this joy of the present to a solution for future based on our fear of death or all hope is lost.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Brian Massumi</span>, Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal, and Mary Zournazi, Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory, 2002, Hope: New Philosophies for Change; New York: Routledge; p. 241-242

Yes, and there is a relation between this ethics, hope and the idea

AND

- it's a desire for more life, or for more to life.



<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The criticism calls into question the ideology that forms a basis for their action. Their thought process not only constitutes reality, but is more important than the action itself.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Vaclav Havel</span>, President of the Czech Republic, The Post-Development Reader, 1997, p. 340

Yes, as we have seen, ideology becomes at the same time an increasingly

AND

, makes decisions that affect people, and not the other way around.