Email tannerlewis1@gmail.com for aff questions and clyde.shepherd.2@gmail.com for neg questions.
[[toc]]
1AC Wake Forrest

Advantage 1 Economy


Lack of job growth and stimulus leaves the US economy weak- comparatively worse than previous recessions
Paul Wiseman, 8/15/12 (Economic writer at Associated Press, "Economic recovery is weakest since World War II,” Yahoo News, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://news.yahoo.com/economic-recovery-weakest-since-world-war-ii-152031546--finance.html]]</span>)
America's gross domestic product …. who could help with the job search.







The plan generates a massive economic stimulus -loan guarantees are the most effective catalyst for widespread investment
Margaronis, 08 [Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php%22%20%5Cl%20%22ixzz1yY1CGarw|http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw]]</span>]
Currently, the United States is experiencing low …. costs for shippers and consumers.



Stimulus good—numbers prove the first worked, we just need a bigger stimulus
Benen 6-7-12- Article refers to Elmendorf, director of the Congressional (Steve, “Case closed: the stimulus worked”, The Maddow Blog, June 7, 2012, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://maddowblog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/06/07/12104923-case-closed-the-stimulus-worked?lite)//sjl]]</span>

For another, on a substantive/policy-driven level….. comes from the left -- it was too small.

Fiscal stimulus doesn’t cause runaway inflation – it enters a steady state
Evans 11 Professor of economics and finance at the Univ of Oregon ( George W. April 2, 2011, The Stagnation Regime of the New Keynesian Model and Recent US Policy <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~gevans/stickystag2april2011r.pdf%20,%2006/19/12|http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~gevans/stickystag2april2011r.pdf , 06/19/12]]</span>)

In the stagnation regime…. back of government expenditure.

Inflation spurs growth—solves risk aversion and stimulates the economy.
Mirhaydari 10 — Anthony Mirhaydari, investment columnist at MSN Money, former senior research analyst at Markman Capital Insight—an investment advisory and money management firm, 2010 (“No Inflation Means No Recovery,” MSN Money, September 8th, Available Online at http://articles.moneycentral.msn.com/Investing/Extra/mirhaydari-no-inflation-means-no-recovery.aspx?page=all, Accessed 09-08-2011)
The problem is extreme risk aversion….. Japanese-style deflationary spiral.


Austerity hurts the economy-Europe Proves
<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/author/pat-g/|Garofalo]]</span> on 7-3-12 (Pat, is Economic Policy Editor for ThinkProgress.org at the Center for American Progress Action Fund. Pat’s work has also appeared in The Nation, U.S. News & World Report, The Guardian, the Washington Examiner, and In These Times. He has been a guest on MSNBC and Al-Jazeera television, as well as many radio shows. Pat graduated from Brandeis University, where he was the editor-in-chief of The Brandeis Hoot, Brandeis’ community newspaper, and worked for the International Center for Ethics, Justice, and Public Life, “<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how-state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/|CHART: How State And Local Budget Cuts Are Holding Back GDP Growth]]</span>”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how%20state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/?mobile=nc|http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/07/30/605971/chart-how state-and-local-budget-cuts-are-holding-back-gdp-growth/?mobile=nc]]</span>)

As ThinkProgress has noted …for more European-style austerity.




Congestion will only get worse in the status quo—Marine highways are key to solve
U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11 (“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)//NJain//

//Traffic congestion imposes serious ….is less used than the other.//




//Congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery//
//Needham 11 [Vicki, The Hill, Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery] TJ//

//Traffic congestion is costing billions …. not a productive option.”//





//Economic decline causes war – studies prove//
//Royal 10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]//
//Less intuitive is how periods …. economic-security debate and deserves more attention.//



//We can’t abandon growth- only technology can solve their impacts//
//AtKisson, former executive editor of In Context: A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture, 2003//
//(Alan, “Sustainability is Dead— Long Live Sustainability”, 3-20, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.rrcap.unep.org/uneptg06/course/Robert/SustainabilityManifesto2001.pdf]]</span>)//

//At precisely the moment when humanity’s science, … we can never stop.//


//Advantage 2 Naval Power//


//The shipbuilding industry is collapsing now//
//Munoz, 11 [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]</span>]//
//As President Obama announced his robust infrastructure …, mass transportation, and health care for the poor. Imagine….//



//Title XI would stimulate the shipbuilding industry//
//Goure, 11 [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]</span>]//
//A less well recognized candidate for … money behind the MHI.//


//A strong shipbuilding industry is key to naval power//
//Alberto, et al., 5 (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)//
//In conclusion, our study found … value to the nation of the vessel.//



//Increased naval strength is critical to avert war over Taiwan//
//Vego, 11 — professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “CHINA'S Naval Challenge”, United States Naval Institute, Proceedings, 137, 4, pg. 36-40, April 2011, proquest, Deech)//
//A conventional war in East Asia …shallow western Pacific waters.//


//U.S. – China war over Taiwan guarantees nuclear war//
//Glaser 11 [Charles Glaser – PHD from Harvard in International Relations Theory and International Security Policy -- Professor of Political Science and International Affairs Director, Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington University “Will China’s Rise lead to War?” March/April 2011http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf SMerchant]
The prospects for avoiding intense military competition ….general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.






Naval superiority is the foundation of U.S. Geopolitical dominance
Stratfor 8 - world's leading private intelligence firm, clients range from Fortune 500 companies to international government agencies, 8-5-8 (“U.S. Naval Dominance and the Importance of the Oceans,” http://www.stratfor.com/ana
lysis/u_s_naval_dominance_and_importance_oceans)
The geographic position of the United States, … Atlantic and Pacific.


Heg collapse causes great power war
Kagan 12, Robert, senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution [“Why the World Needs America,” February 11th, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html]]</span>]

With the outbreak of World War I, … American order came into being.


Independently Navy keeps every scenario for conflict in check
NLUS 12 (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity,” 2012 http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf)#SPS
Global engagement is critical … must be a national imperative.





US intervention is inevitable it is only a question of effectiveness
Shalmon and Horowitz 09 (Dan, Graduate Student in the PhD Program in Political Science - International Relations at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Mike, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania- Philadelphia, Orbis, Spring)
It is important to recognize … given America’s role in the global order.24


Heg is sustainable and good if we have a strong military and economy- they don’t assume these factors
Kagan 12 (Robert, is an American historian, author and foreign policy commentator at the Brookings Institution. He is a co-founder of the now-defunct neoconservative political organization Project for the New American Century, Not Fade Away: The myth of American decline, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/magazine/99521/america-world-power-declinism?page=0,0]]</span>)
Is the United States in decline, … of power over the course of a half-century.

Thus the Plan:
The United States federal government should expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.

Solvency

Title XI Loan Guarantees are key to effective marine highways
U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration 11
(“America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress” April 2011 http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf)

The Title XI Federal Ship … shoreside infrastructure owners.



Title XI is key to SSS- no link uq
Cook, 12 [H. Clayton Cook, Esq. has been involved with Jones Act issues for more than 40 years and served as General Counsel of the Maritime Administration from 1970-1973. He is currently Counsel to Seward & Kissel LLP in Washington, DC.
The Dual-Use Vessel Program and Americas Marine Highway Next Steps, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps]]</span>]
“Short Sea Shipping” and AMH

A MarAd and Department of Transportation (… of government start-up assistance. ¶


**And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping**
**Margaronis, 08** [Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]</span>]
__A loan guarantee is ….__ to build ships.




Negative
Wake Forrest
Round 2: NIB
2NR: States CP and Elections


Round 4: ITS
2NR: States CP and Elections


Round 6: NIB
2NR: Elections