[[toc]]
**All of Scarsdale and Carpe Diem JM are running the same cases. If anyone wants cites for anything read by Scarsdale or Millman, email me at grant.reiter@gmail.com.**
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Constitutionality AC </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fact the US has an obligation to follow the constitution is necessarily implied by the concept itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Searle, John R. "How to Derive "Ought" from "Is"". <http://commonsenseatheism.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/Searle-How-to-Derive-Ought-from-Is.pdf>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Once we recognize…the first derivation.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ethical theories must consistent with the inherent aim of the agent, since it is the only way to have a coherent system of value.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Smith, Michael; “On Normativity”; <http://www.princeton.edu/msmith/mypapers/OnNormativity.pdf></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Something’s being a…a goodness-fixing kind.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The constitution is constitutive of the US government.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Constitution of the United States of America." Almanac of Policy Issues. June 2004. Web. <http://www.policyalmanac.org/government/archive/constitution.shtml>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“It establishes the…of every individual.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The meaning of “ought” is modified because we are asking about what the US ought to do in terms of the constitution.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wedgwood, Ralph. “The Meaning of 'Ought'”, Oxford Studies in Metaethics, ed. Russ Shafer-Landau, vol. 1 (2006), 127-160</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Ought exhibits other…most effective way.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is an implicit demand in every ought statement.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">P. T. Geach. “Imperative and Deontic Logic” Vol. 18, No. 3 (Jan., 1958).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Moral utterances are…to give any.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Consistency with the US constitution</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The constitutional textually draws no distinction between citizens and noncitizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David D. Cole [Constitutional Law, National Security, and Criminal Justice Professor at Georgetown University Law Center]. Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?, 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The constitution does…be so limited.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The only direct Supreme Court precedent on applying the constitution to foreigners abroad doesn’t apply to fifth-amendment cases.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lea Brilmayer and Charles Norchi “Federal Extraterritoriality and Fifth Amendment Due Process” Harvard Law Review, Vol. 105, No. 6 (Apr., 1992), pp. 1217-1263. Jstor.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The extraterritorial defendant…by our borders.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Distinctions AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This case was almost entirely analytic, but I decided to disclose the cards in case anyone could use them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Practical reason implies that we must base moral accountability on desert.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Creating The Kingdom of Ends: Reciprocity and Responsibility in Personal Relations.” (p. 306).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“But in a…to be human.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only desert allows for people to affirm their ends as free and equal rational agents.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rachels, James. "Punishment and Desert," originally appeared in Ethics in Practice, edited by Hugh LaFollette (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1997), pp. 470-479. [[http://www.jamesrachels.org/punanddes.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“These add up…be equally distributed.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative Burden: To demonstrate a morally relevant distinction between citizens and non-citizens.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any distinction is morally arbitrary because borders have no moral relevance.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Benhabib, Seyla. The Rights of Others: Aliens, Residents and Citizens. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2004. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“It should come…world without borders.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inductive reasoning fails, so interpretations contingent on the consequences of affirming or negating are nonsensical.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hume, David. An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, [[http://18th.eserver.org/hume-enquiry.html#4|http://18th.eserver.org/hume-enquiry.html#4]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“That there are…point in question.”</span>

==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contractarianism NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All moral reasons are premised on desires.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Heathwood, Chris. “Desire-Based Theories of Reasons, Pleasure, and Welfare.” Oxford Studies In Meta-ethics Volume 6. Ed. Russ Shafer-Landau</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The answer is…theories of reasons.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The only normative theory consistent with internalism is contractarianism whereby we make mutual restraints on our self-interest with others.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Moral principles are…in their affairs.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Consistency with a contractarian system of mutual restraint</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contractarianism requires parties to be equal when entering contracts.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“But the strengths…rationally grounded morality.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inductive reasoning fails, so interpretations contingent on the consequences of affirming or negating are nonsensical.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hume, David. An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, http://18th.eserver.org/hume-enquiry.html#4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“That there are…point in question.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">State's Will NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Frameworks determine what counts as evidence or rationality, making it impossible to rationally debate between frameworks.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Joyce, Richard. Myth of Morality. Port Chester, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press, 2002. p 45-47.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This distinction between...or the other."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Moral language linguistically refers to the real world manifestation of epistemological subjectivism by which the most dominant group in society actively manipulates normative concepts to promote its own interest.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rist, John M [Prof. at University of Toronto]. Real Ethics: Reconsidering the Foundations of Morality Cambridge University Press, 2002.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The claim of...are still idiots."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Consistency with the state's will</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirming is inconsistent with the state's will.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Obama’s Drone War and the Normalisation of Extrajudicial Murder, June 11, 2012, The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/jun/11/obama-drone-wars-normalisation-extrajudicial-killing</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Yet, contrary to...and intelligence officials."</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Democracy AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The democratic tradition is the only objective good in a subjective world.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mouffe, Chantal. The Return of the Political “Modern or Post modern?” Pg. 15. 2005. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"It is always...impose their power."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The only way we can be certain of our beliefs is through agreement.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Murphy, Peter (University of Indianapolis). Coherentism in Epistemology. Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. October 15, 2006. <[[http://www.iep.utm.edu/coherent/]]> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"In an analysis...produce justified beliefs."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Democracy inherently uses the public sphere to get more approximations of the good, and thus is the best position for those unsure of their claims.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Habermas, Jurgen. The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory, 1998 MIT Press, p. 4 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">"In the absence...a normative content."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The fundamental nature of politics is that states have to justify themselves, not to abstract principles, but to real people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Canaday, Margot. “Promising alliances: the critical feminist theory of Nancy Fraser and Seyla Benhabib” Feminist Review 74, 50–69 (1 January 2003)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The public sphere...justice and freedom."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Consistency with popular input</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A majority of Americans believe that the government should guarantee health care.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Linton, Eric. Two-Thirds Of Americans Back Universal Health Care: Poll. March 28 2012 9:37 PM http://www.ibtimes.com/two-thirds-americans-back-universal-health-care-poll-431376</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"As a majority...2.6 percentage point."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Citizen Jury polls are in favor of a single payer system. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sullivan, Kip. "Two-thirds of Americans support Medicare for all" Physicians for a National Health Program Dec 9, 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In this case...for single payer."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The citizen jury polls are the best on the topic because it gives the most fully informed opinion.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sullivan, Kip. "Two-thirds of Americans support Medicare for all" Physicians for a National Health Program Dec 9, 2009.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In Part 2...and other proposals." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even if Americans dislike specific systems, polls indicate that they are in favor of Universal Health Care as a concept.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trumbull, Mark. Health-care reform: what polls say ahead of a Supreme Court ruling. Christian Science Monitor (June 22, 2012) http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2012/0622/Health-care-reform-what-polls-say-ahead-of-a-Supreme-Court-ruling</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Gallup polling in...as it is."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The human ancestry explains this undeniable intuition.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hanson, Robin [Professor at George Mason University], 2002 Social Philosophy & Policy Foundation. Printed in the USA, WHY HEALTH IS NOT SPECIAL:ERRORS IN EVOLVED BIOETHICS INTUITIONS, [[http://hanson.gmu.edu/bioerr.pdfm|http://hanson.gmu.edu/bioerr.pdf]], BW</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"If moral intuitions...we do help."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">USNHC Plan</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The USFG will enact the United States National Health Care Act, H.R. 676. This entails the creation of a universal single payer health care system in which all medically necessary care decided between doctor and patient would be paid for by the US Government, recasting private insurance companies as purely supplemental coverage, to be used when non essential care is sought. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Inherency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Many lack health insurance now.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Andrew P. Wilper, MD, MPH, Stefﬁe Woolhandler, MD, MPH, Karen E. Lasser, MD, MPH, Danny McCormick, MD, MPH, David H. Bor, MD, and David U. Himmelstein, MD. “Health Insurance and Mortality in US Adults”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The United States...among US adults."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Costs are increasing and many are uncovered, even with Obamacare.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tanner, Michael. "5 Ways to Solve Health Care." June 9, 2012 . www.cato.org/publications/commentary/5-ways-solve-health-care.</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Most importantly, regardless...insurance by 2020."</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-align: left;">Current market forces lead to increasingly unaffordable health insurance costs which leads to massive amounts of uninsured citizens and thousands of deaths per year.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Morgan, David [Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80]].</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"More than 26,000...under fiscal pressures."</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The USNHC expands coverage to all.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Conyers, John. "Bill Summary & Status 111th Congress (2009 - 2010) H.R.676CRS Summary." Bill Summary & Status. Library of Congress, 26 Jan. 2009. Web. 24 June 2012. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"United States National...based on utilization."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Single payer also saves hundreds of billions of dollars.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dr. Ida Hellander. “Single Payer System Cost?-How Much Would a Single Payer System Cost?” [[http://www.pnhp.org/facts/single-payer-system-cost]] July 2012. Gerald Friedman, Professor of economics, University of Massachusetts-Amherst. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"A single payer...care to all."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only single payer can increase quality of care.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">How Single-Payer Health System Reform Improves Quality. Adopted from “A Better Quality Alternative: Single-Payer Health System Reform,” by Dr. Gordon Schiff and the PNHP Working Group on Quality. Adapted from: Schiff, Gordon D., Bindman, Andrew B., Brennan, Troyen A. “A Better Quality Alternative: Single-Payer Health System Reform.” Journal of the American Medical Association. September 14, 1994.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Single-payer creates a...ineligibility for coverage."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 1: Bioterror</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current emergency care-only practices does not protect against the spread of infectious diseases – coverage for preventive care is key to prevent a bioterrorist attack.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Green, Shane K, PhD, AMA Journal of Ethics. “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without Access,” American Medical Association Journal of Ethics, V6 N5, (http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Using infectious diseases...of infectious disease."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Access to medical care will help protect from a bioterror attack and prevent the spread of other contagious diseases.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sklar, Holly. 12/19/2002, Rolling the Dice on Our Nation's Health. http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Imagine if the...any bioterror attack."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bioterrorism is a severe threat to the US. It is necessary to act now.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“WORLD AT RISK.” The Report of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism. First Vintage Books Edition: December 2008</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The Commission believes...shrinking, not growing."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bioterrorism causes extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Matheny, Jason. “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Of current extinction...respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage 2: China Tradeoff</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Expanding government involvement in healthcare trades off with military spending.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Avik, Roy. 10/23/2012 @ 11:52AM |2,293 views Growth in Health Care Spending Will Force America to Become a Second-Rate Military Power. Forbes.http://www.forbes.com/sites/aroy/2012/10/23/growth-in-health-care-spending-will-force-america-to-become-a-second-rate-military-power/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"In 1972, the...more health care."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cuts will happen that effect our military presence in the Asian region.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Burns, Robert. WHY IT MATTERS: Defense spending By By ROBERT BURNS, AP National Security Writer – Oct 23, 2012.http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5gDA29MFgQF486VToq2WmL3ZO4FUQ?docId=ed2ca7727f50449fa912159c1fd1cdfd</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The size and...starting in January."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Military presence in the Asian region causes China war. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Walt, Stephen. [Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government], “THE END OF THE AMERICAN ERA,” National Interest Nov-Dec. 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The most obvious...shrinking further still."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War between the US and China means extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Takai, Mitsuo. “U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday,” 2009. http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Those who advocate...by nuclear hard-liners."</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Underview</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even a miniscule risk of extinction precedes all moral theories: the fact that there could be uncertainty about which moral theory is true means that we would want to preserve the species.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bostrom, Nick. [Professor, Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University] [[http://www.nickbostrom.com|www.nickbostrom.com]] [Published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, No. 1 (2002). (First version: 2001)] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"These reflections on...lot of value."</span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reciprocity NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All moral reasons are premised on desires.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Heathwood, Chris. “Desire-Based Theories of Reasons, Pleasure, and Welfare.” Oxford Studies In Meta-ethics Volume 6. Ed. Russ Shafer-Landau</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The answer is…theories of reasons.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Motivational internalism requires respecting reciprocal relations.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rachels, James. "Punishment and Desert," originally appeared in Ethics in Practice, edited by Hugh LaFollette (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1997), pp. 470-479. [[http://www.jamesrachels.org/punanddes.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"So once again...to be effective."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Respecting reciprocal relations</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It would be impractical to assume everybody would receive the same degree of care, due to language barriers.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Flores, Glenn [M.D.] "Access Barriers to Health Care for Latino Children" November 1998.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"More than one...identified arranging transportation."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Quinn NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All moral theories must acknowledge people exist as independent beings.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Quinn, Warren S. “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing.” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3, (Jul., 1989), pp. 287-312. JSTOR.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Whether we are...really being ours."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Self ownership necessarily involves side constraints.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Feser, Edward. "Robert Nozick" [[http://www.iep.utm.edu/nozick/#SH2a|http://www.iep.utm.edu/nozick/#SH2a]] Pasadena City College. May 21, 2003.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"But if individuals...refrain from working."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A right to ourselves necessarily includes a right to property.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Locke, John. Two Treatises on Government (16-8-1690). Chapter 5 On Property. <http://www.lonang.com/exlibris/locke/loc-205.htm></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Though the earth...common for others."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Respecting the constraint of self-ownership</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Universal Health Care is inconsistent with self-ownership because it necessarily involves taxation.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Feser, Edward. "Robert Nozick" [[http://www.iep.utm.edu/nozick/#SH2a|http://www.iep.utm.edu/nozick/#SH2a]] Pasadena City College. May 21, 2003.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"So far this...their own property)."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fiscal Cliff DA</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A-Uniqueness: Both republicans and democrats are working towards a deal in the squo to avoid going over the fiscal cliff.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Washington Post. "Obama seeks Aug. 1 deadline for tax reform" [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/obama-set-to-make-his-case-to-the-public-for-fiscal-cliff-plan/2012/11/30/f5bf68d0-3b06-11e2-b01f-5f55b193f58f_story_1.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Democratic leaders, meanwhile...its rising debt."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B-Link: Health care is the decisive issue for republicans; if the aff happens Obama loses any republican support he previously had.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Swenson, Michele. "False Health Care Debate Drives Narrow Election-Year Dialogue" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michele-swenson/health-care-debate_b_1652368.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Rather than serious...social spending cuts."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If we don’t go over the fiscal cliff, any deal will necessitate massive cuts to health care to avoid the tax increases.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zigmond, Jessica and Daly, Rich. "Obama Win Seen as Victory for Health Care Reform" November 7, 2012 [[http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/08/22/usa-russia-trade-idINL2E8JMDIW20120822]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The election also...of historic proportions."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C-Impact: Going over the fiscal cliff will wreck the US and global economy. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rosenberg, Yuval. "The fiscal cliff showdown: 4 ways it could play out" [[http://money.msn.com/politics/post.aspx?post=2b0a3294-4f4e-41b1-bf2a-947f78e80938]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"But a failure...to about 15 percent."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US economic collapse means global economic collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thomas Helbling, Peter Berezin, Ayhan Kose, Michael Kumhof, Doug Laxton, and Nikola Spatafora. "Decoupling the train? Spillovers and cycles in the global economy" [[http://www.contexto.org/pdfs/FMIecdecouplingUS.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"As a starting...with U.S. markets."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Global economic collapse means extinction. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Friedberg, Aaron. “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"With the global...we now face."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if we resolve the fiscal cliff issue, UHC will independently wreck the economy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Brunell, Don. "Washington View: Ignoring fiscal cliff will leave our children in free fall" Tuesday, November 6, 2012. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">http://www.columbian.com/news/2012/nov/06/ignoring-fiscal-cliff-will-leave-our-children-in-f/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"David Walker, former...the entire economy." </span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Polls AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Same framework as the Democracy AC from November/December. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that public opinion values rehabilitation over punishment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Krisberg, Barry [PhD] and Marchionna, Susan. “Attitudes of US Voters toward Prisoner Rehabilitation and Reentry Policies”-Views from the National Council on Crime and Delinquency: April 2006 [[http://www.sdgrantmakers.org/members/downloads/2006april_focus_zogby.pdf.Methodology]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Of those polled…expressed strong support.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the public opinion believes rehabilitation is more likely to reduce crime.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hart, Peter. “Changing Public Attitudes toward the Criminal Justice System” Feb 2002. http://www.prisonpolicy.org/scans/CJI-Poll.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Americans strongly favor…to 21% margin.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bill Bone AC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Note: This is __not__ the same case that La Jolla RP is running. I don't know him and we don't share any prep. Our cases having the same name is merely a coincidence. The good news, however, is that your prep-outs won't apply to my aff.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">What differentiates rehabilitation from retribution is their form of justification; they are contrastive justifying aims of punishment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lessnoff, Michael. Two Justifications of Punishment. The Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 83 (Apr., 1971), pp. 141-148. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2218336]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“By the retributive…or bad acts.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current US Sentencing Guidelines pursuant to the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 explicitly takes no stance on which should be valued higher.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dubber, Markus D. [SUNY Buffalo Law School] and Mark G. Kelman [Stanford Law School]. American Criminal Law: Cases, Statutes, and Comments 2nd Ed. Foundation Press. 2012. [[http://www.dubberkelman.com/display.asp?displayID=chapter1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The Sentencing Guidelines…the same sentence.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The resolution asks about only one mode of justification, i.e. what the justifying aim of the social institution of punishment should be, so it questions whether the teleological justification of punishment ought to be conceived of as utilitarian or retributive. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lessnoff 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“What then, is…of entitling justicification.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that the teleological justification for punishment must be utilitarian. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lessnoff 3 explains with an analogy to eminent domain:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“A similar dichotomy…is essentially correct.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And ignore answers that criticize utilitarianism as a general moral theory as these do not apply specifically to utilitarian theories of punishment.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lessnoff 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I am here…also a determinist).”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fission thought experiment proves that the first, Simple View, fails.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David Shoemaker, “Personal Identity and Ethics”, 2008, SEP.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“By way of…Matter (IDM) view.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Personal identity, then, is not absolute but rather admits of degrees.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 139-141.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The identity of … an earlier self.’"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lack of personal identity undermines desert-based theories of punishment. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dresser, Rebecca (JD Associate Professor, School of Law and Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western U). Personal Identity and Punishment; 70 B.U. L. Rev. 395 (1990)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The provocative implications…the “Extreme Claim.””</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The moral neutrality of the time of an action also commits us to the moral neutrality of the person a moral action harms.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“This reply might…itself no importance.’”</span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Will to Power NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Internalism fails to account for the categorical nature of moral imperatives and instead leads to subjectivity.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Katsafanas, Paul. “Deriving Ethics from Action: A Nietzchean Version of Constitutivism.” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, LLC. Boston University: 2011.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Internalism provides a…us as implausible.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Externalism would not provide sufficient justification for an agent to act because morality must be a guide towards actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Katsafanas 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“While externalism captures…decidedly odd property.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Constitutivism avoids the pitfalls of both internalism and externalism while capturing the benefits of each theory.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Katsafanas 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Enter a third…is an agent.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Consistency with the will to power</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The will to overcome resistance is implicit in every action.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Katsafanas 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“It is important…and overcoming resistance.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The contention is entirely analytic.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contractualism NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Morality is about justification between people.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Darwall, Stephen. The Second Person Standpoint (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2006): p, 103.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“However desirable it…demand to another.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contractualism treats people as moral agents, since it holds people accountable for their actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Darwall 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“To justify oneself…individuals’ legitimate claims.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any objection to contractualism can never truly be justified.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit. Climbing The Mountain. 2009. Page 370.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Scanlonian Contractualism may…are not wrong.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC: Abiding by principles no one could reasonable reject</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If a person has the opportunity to avoid a bad consequence, then they are less able to object to a principle that allows for it.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">TM Scanlon “Chapter 10: Thomson on Self-Defense” Fact and Value: Essays on Ethics and Metaphysics for Judith Jarvis Thomson Ed. Judith Jarvis Thomson. MIT Press: 2001. Print. 202.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The important point… actions in self-defense.”</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]