[[toc]]
=Solar Highways= 
==1AC Niles== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention One is Inherency]]Contention One is Inherency</span>=== 

Congress just passed a highways bill – but it fails to make needed repairs
**Nyden ‘12**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul J. Nyden; Nyden earned a Ph.D. from Columbia University and is a reporter for the Charleston Gazette and Monthly Review. Statements made by James Corless, director of Transportation for America. Corless was a senior planner for the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) in San Francisco, and the former California director and national campaign manager for the Surface Transportation Policy Project, bringing over 15 years of transportation and campaign experience to Transportation for America; “Many happy road bill passed, but it doesn't do enough, they say” Jun. 30th 2012;]</span>

New transportation legislation Congress passed Friday guarantees 27 months of funds for highway and transportation
AND
dedicated funding and standards for repair of our aging system," Corless said.

And solar highways won’t be implemented in the squo
**Popsci ‘09**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Popular Science Magazine; Popular Science has been a leading source of science and technology news since its inception way back in 1872; “Solar Panels Built Into Roads Could Be the Future of Energy” Aug. 27th 2009; </span>

Each Solar Road panel can develop around 7.6 kwh of power each day
AND
has yet to be built. But we can be excited, right?


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in Solar Roadways</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention Two is Hegemony]]Contention Two is Hegemony</span>=== 

US hegemony is high now, but on the brink of collapse due to perceived military and economic impotency
**Rachman ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gideon Rachman; First Class Honors MA Degree in History from Cambridge University, he was a fellow and Fulbright Scholar at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs after which he became a reporter in Washington. He then spent 15 years as the deputy American editor of The Economist, the nation’s premier daily policy journal. Now work at The Financial Times where he specializes in international politics with focus on American foreign policy; “Think Again: American Decline” Feb 2011;]</span>

America Still Leads Across the Board. For now. As things stand, America
AND
, America is still bogged down by an apparently endless insurgency in Afghanistan.

And, roads are key to power projection
**DOT ‘09**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[US Department of Transportation; The DOT is the sector of the US government with control over all national transportation measures. This specific card was cut from a guide by the DOT which drew information from literature reviews, interviews, and a series of multi-agency exercises, each exercise allowed for approximately 40 representatives to explore the full range of military deployment needs in the context of transportation and public safety operations, with a total of over 175 experts from transportation, public safety, and emergency management agencies contributed their research and time to the project; “Coordinating Military Deployments on Roads and Highways: A Guide for State and Local Agencies” May 2009; </span>

Strategic mobility and readiness are keys to the military’s ability to project power worldwide.
AND
information about the military's organization of convoys and standard highway procedures for convoys.

And, investment in infrastructure strengthens the economy and secures eroding heg
**Yglesias ‘09**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Matthew Yglesias; Yglesias is currently Slate's business and economics correspondent. Before joining the magazine he worked for ThinkProgress, the Atlantic, TPM Media, and the American Prospect. Matthew graduated from Harvard with a degree in philosophy, with a focus on approaching public policy issues with an added philosophical consideration; “Reconstruction for the USA” Nov 3rd 2009; /]</span>

And while the gains to new investments in infrastructure (and not just in transportation
AND
dividends for decades and if properly maintained will continue to do so forever.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, the plan secures US leadership in a transition to green hegemony – means others will inevitably adapt our technology</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Klarevas ‘09</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Louis Klarevas; Klarevas is a Senior Fulbright Scholar studying issues of transnational security. He has taught at American University, George Washington University, the City University of New York, and New York University. At the latter, he founded and coordinated the Transnational Security graduate program at the Center for Global Affairs. During the early phases of the Iraq War, he served as the Defense Analysis Research Fellow at the London School of Economics. Before joining the ranks of academia, he served as a research associate at the United States Institute of Peace – a U.S. government think tank devoted to resolving international conflicts and global security problems. Dr. Klarevas holds a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Pennsylvania and a Ph.D. in International Relations from the School of International Service at American University; “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony” Dec. 15th 2009;]</span>

What both sides need to understand is that by becoming a lean, mean,
AND
means of leverage that can be employed to keep potential foes in check.

And, US hegemony prevents major war – we control the internal links to all the negs disads
**Zhang and Shi ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Yuhan Zhang is a leader for Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Lin Shi is a professor at Columbia University; “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”January 22nd 2011]</span>

Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously
AND
forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

And, US hegemony prevents multiple close scenarios for nuclear war – alternatives fail
**Kagan ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert Kagan; Foreign policy analyst, this article in particular was publically endorsed by President Obama and its theme referenced in his 2012 State of the Union Address. Kagan graduated from Yale with a degree in history, an MPP from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and a PhD in US history from the American University he also is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. He is a columnist for the Washington Post and a contributing editor for The New Republic and The Weekly Standard, as well as having written for New York Times, Foreign Affairs, Wall Street Journal, Commentary, World Affairs, and Policy Review; “The Price of Power” Jan 24th 2011]</span>

Today the international situation is also one of high risk. • The terrorists who
AND
areas of foreign policy, have all agreed on this core strategic approach.

And, transition wars mean no impact turn
**Khanna ’09**

[Parag Khanna; Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, Senior Fellow
AND
the New Global Order” March 4th 2008; Pages 337-338]

The sole exception was the twentieth century Anglo-American transition in which Great Britain
AND
Napoleonic “Concert of Europe” as the first of the modern era.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention Three is Climate Change]]Contention Three is Climate Change</span>=== 


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate change will be determined by anthropogenic CO2 emissions, we must cut at least 80% of emissions by 2020</span>
**Somerville ‘12**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard C.J. Somerville; A theoretical meteorologist, Somerville is distinguished professor emeritus at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego. His expertise is in climate, atmospheric modeling, cloud physics, and radiative transfer; “Climate Change, Irreversibility, and Urgency” Aug. 13 2012;]</span>

Recent research indicates that the climate in coming decades and centuries will be largely determined
AND
95 percent below the per-capita emissions in developed nations in 2000.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, a conversion to electric cars combined with use of solar power could solve warming by 2020 – the only obstacle is a lack of charging stations</span>
**Fleck and Yee ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jack Lucero Fleck and Bond M. Yee; Jack Lucero Fleck, PE, is City Traffic Engineer, also with the SFMTA. Jack has a BSCE from the University of Illinois and a Masters in City Planning from UC Berkeley; he has been with the City of San Francisco for 25 years. Bond M Yee, PTOE, is the Director of Transportation Engineering and Interim Director of The Sustainable Streets for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. Bond has a BSCE and a Masters in Transportation from UC Berkeley Institute of Transportation Studies and 37 years professional experience. The paper sites information from top MIT professors and the IPCC;]</span>

This paper examines the issue of CO2 emissions as the leading cause of global warming
AND
needs by 2020. However solar is less viable in more northerly climates.

And, solar roadways solve – we have the tech, and they provide charging infrastructure
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Oil Independence” 2010;]</span>

The reality is that no single solution that has been proposed will lead to a
AND
relatively short period of time, which may be all we have left.

And, even under the worst possible conditions solar roadways produce enough energy for the entire world
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Numbers” 2010;]</span>

In the 48 contiguous states alone, pavements and other impervious surfaces cover 112,
AND
48" could produce just about enough electricity to supply the entire world.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, failure to stop climate change leads to multiple extinction scenarios</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1.) </span>CO2 makes air unlivable
**FFF ‘08**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Foundation For the Future; The Foundation For the Future was established with the mission to increase and diffuse knowledge concerning the long-term future of humanity. The repot this card was cut from involved research from top scientist from all over, including: Dr. David Archer Professor of Geophysical Sciences at the University of Chicago, Dr. Andrey Ganopolski Professor at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Dr. Jerome C. Glenn Director of the Millennium Project, Dr. Feng Hsu Sr. Engineer at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, US Congressman Jay Inslee 1st Congressional District of Washington State US House of Representatives, Sir Crispin Tickell Director for Policy Foresight Programme at James Martin Institute for Science and Civilization, Mr. William H. Mansfield III Sr. Advisor at UNEP, Dr. J. Craig Venter President & CEO at The J. Craig Venter Institute, Mr. David Wasdell Director of the Meridian Programme; “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario” Sept 12-14th 2008;]</span>

This summary intends – rather than to duplicate the existing assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel
AND
ineffective mitigations in today’s human activities that affect CO2 levels in the atmosphere.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2.) </span>Ocean acidification caused by CO2 will kill species essential for human survival
**Leahy ‘06**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen Leahy; Leahy is the lead international science and environment correspondent at IPS, where he writes about climate change, energy, water, biodiversity, development and native peoples. Based in Uxbridge, Canada, near Toronto, Steve has covered environmental issues for nearly two decades for publications around the world. He is a professional member of the International Federation of Journalists, the Society of Environmental Journalists and the International League of Conservation Writers. He also pioneered Community Supported Environmental Journalism to ensure important environmental issues continue to be covered, “ENVIRONMENT: Climate Change Shattering Marine Food Chain”, April 10 2006, </span>

Vast swaths of coral reefs in the Caribbean Sea and South Pacific Ocean are dying
AND
senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in the U.S.


Independently, climate change and population growth will lead to water wars
**Rasmusesen ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Erik Rasmussen; Founder of MM, Scandinavia’s leading independent think tank as well as founder of global initiative Green Growth Leaders, he has been elected one of the world’s top 100 most influential journalist by the World Economic Forum and has been a member of the International Media Council, his primary focus is climate change and climate adaption which shows primarily through his founding of the Copenhagen Climate Council; “Prepare for the Next Conflict: Water Wars” April 12th 2011;]</span>

We are terrifyingly fast consuming one of the most important and perishable resources of the
AND
escalate and become a great humanitarian crisis and also a global safety problem.

And, those water wars go nuclear
**Weiner ‘90**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan Weiner; Professor at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, he has taught at Princeton University, Arizona State University and Rockefeller University. He is an esteemed journalist and winner of the 1995 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction and the 1994 Los Angeles Times Book Prize; “The Next 100 Years” p.270, 1990; ISBN 10: 0553057448 / 0-553-05744-8]</span>

If we do not destroy ourselves with the A-bomb and the H-
AND
of the 60,000 nuclear warheads the world has stockpiled since Trinity.

And, Solar Roadways solve – water removal is multi-use
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton. Here he also cites an article by the National Resource Defense Council on stormwater pollution; “Water Management” 2010;]</span>

Now let's look at another problem our oceans and waterways have to contend with.
AND
our waterways are safe, farmers are happy, and aquifers are resupplied.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention Four is the Power Grid]]Contention Four is the Power Grid</span>=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention Four is the Power Grid-Terrorist are actively trying to attack the power grid]]Terrorist are actively trying to attack the power grid</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Serrano ~’11</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">~~[Richard A. Serrano; Serrano is a staff writer for the Washington Bureau and has also written for publications such as the LA Times. The source of this articles information comes from Leon Panetta. Panetta is the current United States Secretary of Defense and former director of the CIA who oversaw the operation that led to Osama Bin Laden~’s death. Before that he was the founder of the Panetta Institute for Public Policy, served as Distinguished Scholar to Chancellor Charles B. Reed of the California State University System and professor of public policy at Santa Clara University. He earned his BA in Political Science and his Ph.D. in law from Santa Clara University and School of Law]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reporting from Washington — A major cyber attack somewhere in the United States is becoming</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">thousands" of attempts are being made to sneak into national security networks.</span>

Solar Roadways will solve issue with the power grid, making it invincible
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Smart Grid” 2010]</span>

Decentralizing the production of electricity can also make the grid more resilient and save some
AND
provides a decentralized, secure, intelligent, self-healing power grid.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, a terrorist attack on even two percent of the system causes collapse</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">GEI ‘05</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Galvin Electricity Initiative; A leading non-profit organization led and founded by Robert Galvin. He was a Chairman of the Illinois Institute of Technology, and IIT presented Galvin with an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree and in 1996, he received the university’s Henry Heald Award. IIT dedicated the Paul V. Galvin Library in 1985 to recognize the Galvin family’s commitment to the institution. Sources in this article include former FBI investigations, the US Nuclear Regulatory Committee, and he European Physical Journal;]</span>

There is evidence that terrorist organizations are considering an attack on the power grid.
AND
points along the system would cause a catastrophic failure of the entire system.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, collapse of the power grid causes extinction</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adams ‘11</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mike Adams; Editor-in-Chief and founder of Natural News Network, Mike has authored over 1800 articles on environmental and health issues and authored 11 books. This article draws its information from sources including The International Business Times Science, The World Nuclear Association, National Geographic, and NASA; “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns” Sept. 13th 2011;]</span>

Imagine a world without electricity. Even for just a week. Imagine New York
AND
means a near-total collapse of the human population on our planet.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-1AC Niles-Contention Five is Solvency]]Contention Five is Solvency</span>=== 



Fed key to provide uniform geographic reach

**Puentes ’11**



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert Puentes; Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. The Initiative was established to address the pressing transportation and infrastructure challenges facing cities and suburbs in the United States and abroad. Prior to joining Brookings, Robert was the director of infrastructure programs at the Intelligent Transportation Society of America. He holds a master’s degree from the University of Virginia where he served on the Alumni Advisory Board, and is an affiliated professor with Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute. He serves on a variety of boards and committees including, most recently, the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority, the Tysons Corner Tomorrow Advisory Task Force, and the Falls Church, Virginia Planning Commission; "Leveraging Infrastructure Investment Now and for the Future." 2011;]</span>


The recovery package should send a strong signal and set the course for a new

AND

that are the critical nodes of international trade and inter- metropolitan commerce.


Improving tech guarantees long and short term solvency

**Brusaw ‘11**


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Numbers” 2010;]</span>


One of the great features of the Solar Road Panel is that much of it

AND

Roadway to keep up with the increase in electricity demand over the years.


We have the tech

**Brusaw ‘10**


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Frequently Asked Questions” 2010;]</span>


Everyone naturally pictures sliding out of control on a smooth piece of wet glass!

AND

that the glass specs that he had presented would not pose any problems.

==1AC R6 Valley Mid American Cup== 


===Contention One is Inherency=== 

Congress just passed a highways bill – but it fails to make needed repairs
**Nyden ‘12**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Paul J. Nyden; Nyden earned a Ph.D. from Columbia University and is a reporter for the Charleston Gazette and Monthly Review. Statements made by James Corless, director of Transportation for America. Corless was a senior planner for the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) in San Francisco, and the former California director and national campaign manager for the Surface Transportation Policy Project, bringing over 15 years of transportation and campaign experience to Transportation for America; “Many happy road bill passed, but it doesn't do enough, they say” Jun. 30th 2012; http://sundaygazettemail.com/News/201206300065?page=1]</span>

New transportation legislation Congress passed Friday guarantees 27 months of funds for highway and transportation
AND
dedicated funding and standards for repair of our aging system," Corless said.

And solar highways won’t be implemented in the squo
**Popsci ‘09**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Popular Science Magazine; Popular Science has been a leading source of science and technology news since its inception way back in 1872; “Solar Panels Built Into Roads Could Be the Future of Energy” Aug. 27th 2009; http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2009-08/solar-panels-built-roads-could-be-future-energy/</span>

Each Solar Road panel can develop around 7.6 kwh of power each day
AND
has yet to be built. But we can be excited, right?

**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in Solar Roadways**
===Contention Two is Climate Change=== 

Climate change will be determined by anthropogenic CO2 emissions, we must cut at least 80% of emissions by 2020
**Somerville ‘12**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Richard C.J. Somerville; A theoretical meteorologist, Somerville is distinguished professor emeritus at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego. His expertise is in climate, atmospheric modeling, cloud physics, and radiative transfer; “Climate Change, Irreversibility, and Urgency” Aug. 13 2012; [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/climate-change-irreversibility-and-urgency]]]</span>

Recent research indicates that the climate in coming decades and centuries will be largely determined
AND
95 percent below the per-capita emissions in developed nations in 2000.

And, a conversion to electric cars combined with use of solar power could solve warming by 2020 – the only obstacle is a lack of charging stations
**Fleck and Yee ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jack Lucero Fleck and Bond M. Yee; Jack Lucero Fleck, PE, is City Traffic Engineer, also with the SFMTA. Jack has a BSCE from the University of Illinois and a Masters in City Planning from UC Berkeley; he has been with the City of San Francisco for 25 years. Bond M Yee, PTOE, is the Director of Transportation Engineering and Interim Director of The Sustainable Streets for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. Bond has a BSCE and a Masters in Transportation from UC Berkeley Institute of Transportation Studies and 37 years professional experience. The paper sites information from top MIT professors and the IPCC; http://www.westernite.org/annualmeetings/sanfran10/Papers/Session%206_Papers/ITE%20Paper_6B-Fleck.pdf]</span>

This paper examines the issue of CO2 emissions as the leading cause of global warming
AND
needs by 2020. However solar is less viable in more northerly climates.

And, solar roadways solve – we have the tech, and they provide charging infrastructure
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Oil Independence” 2010; http://www.solarroadways.com/oil.shtml]</span>

The reality is that no single solution that has been proposed will lead to a
AND
relatively short period of time, which may be all we have left.

And, even under the worst possible conditions solar roadways produce enough energy for the entire world
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Numbers” 2010; http://www.solarroadways.com/numbers.shtml]</span>

In the 48 contiguous states alone, pavements and other impervious surfaces cover 112,
AND
48" could produce just about enough electricity to supply the entire world.


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, failure to stop climate change leads to multiple extinction scenarios</span>


1.) CO2 makes air unlivable
**FFF ‘08**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Foundation For the Future; The Foundation For the Future was established with the mission to increase and diffuse knowledge concerning the long-term future of humanity. The repot this card was cut from involved research from top scientist from all over, including: Dr. David Archer Professor of Geophysical Sciences at the University of Chicago, Dr. Andrey Ganopolski Professor at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Dr. Jerome C. Glenn Director of the Millennium Project, Dr. Feng Hsu Sr. Engineer at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, US Congressman Jay Inslee 1st Congressional District of Washington State US House of Representatives, Sir Crispin Tickell Director for Policy Foresight Programme at James Martin Institute for Science and Civilization, Mr. William H. Mansfield III Sr. Advisor at UNEP, Dr. J. Craig Venter President & CEO at The J. Craig Venter Institute, Mr. David Wasdell Director of the Meridian Programme; “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario” Sept 12-14th 2008; http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]</span>

This summary intends – rather than to duplicate the existing assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel
AND
ineffective mitigations in today’s human activities that affect CO2 levels in the atmosphere.

2.) Ocean acidification caused by CO2 will kill species essential for human survival
**Leahy ‘06**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Stephen Leahy; Leahy is the lead international science and environment correspondent at IPS, where he writes about climate change, energy, water, biodiversity, development and native peoples. Based in Uxbridge, Canada, near Toronto, Steve has covered environmental issues for nearly two decades for publications around the world. He is a professional member of the International Federation of Journalists, the Society of Environmental Journalists and the International League of Conservation Writers. He also pioneered Community Supported Environmental Journalism to ensure important environmental issues continue to be covered, “ENVIRONMENT: Climate Change Shattering Marine Food Chain”, April 10 2006, http://www.ipsnews.net/2006/04/environment-climate-change-shattering-marine-food-chain/]</span>

Vast swaths of coral reefs in the Caribbean Sea and South Pacific Ocean are dying
AND
senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in the U.S.

Independently, climate change and population growth will lead to water wars
**Rasmusesen ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Erik Rasmussen; Founder of MM, Scandinavia’s leading independent think tank as well as founder of global initiative Green Growth Leaders, he has been elected one of the world’s top 100 most influential journalist by the World Economic Forum and has been a member of the International Media Council, his primary focus is climate change and climate adaption which shows primarily through his founding of the Copenhagen Climate Council; “Prepare for the Next Conflict: Water Wars” April 12th 2011; http://www.huffingtonpost.com/erik-rasmussen/water-wars_b_844101.html]</span>

We are terrifyingly fast consuming one of the most important and perishable resources of the
AND
escalate and become a great humanitarian crisis and also a global safety problem.

And, those water wars go nuclear
**Weiner ‘90**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jonathan Weiner; Professor at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, he has taught at Princeton University, Arizona State University and Rockefeller University. He is an esteemed journalist and winner of the 1995 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction and the 1994 Los Angeles Times Book Prize; “The Next 100 Years” p.270, 1990; ISBN 10: 0553057448 / 0-553-05744-8]</span>

If we do not destroy ourselves with the A-bomb and the H-
AND
of the 60,000 nuclear warheads the world has stockpiled since Trinity.

And, Solar Roadways solve – water removal is multi-use
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton. Here he also cites an article by the National Resource Defense Council on stormwater pollution; “Water Management” 2010; http://www.solarroadways.com/water.shtml]</span>

Now let's look at another problem our oceans and waterways have to contend with.
AND
our waterways are safe, farmers are happy, and aquifers are resupplied.
===Contention Three is Solvency=== 

Fed key to provide uniform geographic reach
**Puentes ’11**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Robert Puentes; Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. The Initiative was established to address the pressing transportation and infrastructure challenges facing cities and suburbs in the United States and abroad. Prior to joining Brookings, Robert was the director of infrastructure programs at the Intelligent Transportation Society of America. He holds a master’s degree from the University of Virginia where he served on the Alumni Advisory Board, and is an affiliated professor with Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute. He serves on a variety of boards and committees including, most recently, the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority, the Tysons Corner Tomorrow Advisory Task Force, and the Falls Church, Virginia Planning Commission; "Leveraging Infrastructure Investment Now and for the Future." 2011; http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2008/12/10%20transportation%20puentes/leveraging_infrastructue.pdf]</span>

The recovery package should send a strong signal and set the course for a new
AND
that are the critical nodes of international trade and inter- metropolitan commerce.

Improving tech guarantees long and short term solvency
**Brusaw ‘11**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Numbers” 2010; [[http://www.solarroadways.com/numbers.shtml]]]</span>

One of the great features of the Solar Road Panel is that much of it
AND
Roadway to keep up with the increase in electricity demand over the years.

We have the tech
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Frequently Asked Questions” 2010; http://www.solarroadways.com/faq.shtml]</span>

Everyone naturally pictures sliding out of control on a smooth piece of wet glass!
AND
that the glass specs that he had presented would not pose any problems.

**DELIBERATIVE POLICYMAKING through DEBATE is the CRUCIAL internal link to solving warming through public policy and SUBSUMES their critiques of traditional persuasion**

**Herbeck and Isham 10** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.thesolutionsjournal.com/node/775]] Jon Isham Associate Professor of Economics, Middlebury College</span>
Deliberative democracy stems from the belief that democratic leadership should involve educating constituents about issues
AND
, policymakers should seek out deliberative polls in their decision-making process.

**And, Apocalyptic rhetoric is key to individual action – it spurs environmentalism**
**Salvador** **and Norton 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">([[http://www.tandfonline.com/action/doSearch?action=runSearch&type=advanced&result=true&prevSearch=%2Bauthorsfield%3A(Salvador%2C+Michael)|Michael Salvador]] - Michael Salvador is an Associate Professor in the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University and [[http://www.tandfonline.com/action/doSearch?action=runSearch&type=advanced&result=true&prevSearch=%2Bauthorsfield%3A(Norton%2C+Todd)|Todd Norton]] - Todd Norton is an Assistant Professor in the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University, “The Flood Myth in the Age of Global Climate Change,” 2/18/11, [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17524032.2010.544749]]) Gangeezy</span>
For Killingsworth and Palmer (1996), use of apocalyptic rhetoric has shifted in response
AND
problem goes untreated’’ (Killingsworth & Palmer, 1996, p. 22).

==1AC Glenbrooks== 
===1AC ENERGY=== 
Contention 1 is Energy
Status quo energy policy maintains a strategic gaze that ignores the 2 billion members of the energy oppressed poor – this mindset homogenizes entire populations
**Guruswamy 10 –** Nicholas Doman Professor of Law, Director for the Center for Energy and Environmental Security, University of Colorado at Boulder
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lakshman, “Energy Justice and Sustainable Development,” 21 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 231, lexis, dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Note: EOP=energy-oppressed poor, LDC=least developed country, ADC=advanced developed country**</span>

**Unfortunately, for too long, the EOP have been glossed over or lost in**
**AND**
**the energy needs of the EOP while avoiding the damage caused by hydrocarbons.**
**All individuals deserve electricity access – but most don’t get it – we have an obligation to rectify the government’s failure to provide energy to the poor**
Tully 6 **– former BP Postdoctoral Fellow of the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Centre for the Analysis of Risk and Regulation and of the Law Department of the London School of Economics and Political Science**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, “The Human Right to Access Electricity,” The Electricity Journal vol 19 issue 3, April 2006, pg 30-39, dml)</span>**

**Characterizing electricity as an essential civic service implies that governments are expected to provide access**
**AND**
**human needs enjoys priority above directly productive but competing agricultural or industrial applications.**
**And, a lack of energy access dooms billions in developing countries to continual poverty and marginalizes them in the political sphere – plan solves**
Bradbrook and Gardam 6 **– *Bonython Professor of Law, University of Adelaide, Australia AND** Professor of International Law, Unversity of Adelaide, Australia
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Adrian and Judith, “Placing Access to Energy Services within a Human Rights Framework,” 28 Hum. Rts. Q. 389, dml)</span>

While energy is a multifaceted issue and needs a coordinated international response on many fronts
AND
would be provided by stand-alone systems based on renewable energy resources.

And, the energy-oppressed poor experience hell on a daily basis
**Driessen 6 –** senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow (CFACT), and author of //Eco-Imperialism: Green power and Black death//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “Nuclear to the rescue”, [[http://www.maninnature.com/Energy/Nuclear/Nuclear1a.html]], dml) </span>

No wonder. Without electricity, modern life reverts to her childhood: no lights
AND
minimal manufacturing and commerce – and impoverished countries forever dependent on foreign aid.

===1AC INFRASTRUCTURE=== 
Contention 2 is infrastructure
Road access and accidents are a form of structural violence against the poor – the decision not to take action against accidents is one that holds a passive attitude towards life
**Nicholson 92**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Nicholson, English journalist and former ITN Senior Foreign Correspondent, “Rationality and the analysis of international conflict” Cambridge University Press, Mar 27, 1992 http://books.google....olence"&f=false]</span>
The normally understood meaning of ‘violence’ is the deliberate infliction of physical injury or
AND
as medical services, which, of course, are usually closely correlated.

And, rebuilding roads changes cultural structures that uphold poverty, stifling the cycle’s continuation
**Hettige 6**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [HEMAMALA HETTIGE, Asian Development Bank, “WHEN DO RURALROADS BENEFIT THE POOR AND HOW? An In-depth Analysis Based on Case Studies”, 2006, mtp]</span>
The second group covers structural poverty problems. These are issues of resource allocation and
AND
the poor escape from chronic debt cycles, and so escape from poverty.

The marginalization of populations constructs them as disposable – this causes extinction and triggers all their impacts
**Santos 3 –** Professor of Sociology at the University of Coimbra
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Boaventura de Sousa, “Collective Suicide?”, [[http://www.ces.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php]])</span>

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it
AND
machine of democracy and liberty turns into a machine of horror and destruction.
===1AC PLAN=== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">In an attempt to fulfill our infinite obligation to marginalized:</span>**
Max and I demand that the United States federal government substantially increase its investment in Solar Roadways throughout the United States, particularly in areas of poverty, in order to provide energy for global distribution.
===1AC SOLVENCY=== 
Contention 3 is Solvency

Even under the worst possible conditions Solar Roadways can provide energy to the entire world
**Brusaw ‘10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Scott Brusaw; Electrical Engineer with over 20 years of experience directing research and development for everything from manufacturing systems to road design. In addition, he has had extensive military experience as a Marine Corps Sergeant. Scott is a voting member of the National Electrical Manufactures Association and received his Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Dayton; “Numbers” 2010; http://www.solarroadways.com/numbers.shtml]</span>

In the 48 contiguous states alone, pavements and other impervious surfaces cover 112,
AND
48" could produce just about enough electricity to supply the entire world.

And Highway bill non-uniques your disads – but it doesn’t solve
**Nyden ‘12**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul J. Nyden; Nyden earned a Ph.D. from Columbia University and is a reporter for the Charleston Gazette and Monthly Review. Statements made by James Corless, director of Transportation for America. Corless was a senior planner for the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) in San Francisco, and the former California director and national campaign manager for the Surface Transportation Policy Project, bringing over 15 years of transportation and campaign experience to Transportation for America; “Many happy road bill passed, but it doesn't do enough, they say” Jun. 30th 2012; http://sundaygazettemail.com/News/201206300065?page=1]</span>

New transportation legislation Congress passed Friday guarantees 27 months of funds for highway and transportation
AND
dedicated funding and standards for repair of our aging system," Corless said.



===1AC FRAMING=== 
Contention 4 is Framing

Status quo policy turns a blind eye to the poor, making empathy impossible – this makes war inevitable
**Taylor 6**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chloé Taylor, University of Toronto, 2006, Hard, Dry Eyes and Eyes That Weep: Vision and Ethics in Levinas and Derrida, mtp]</span>
David Michael Levin has repeatedly considered Levinas's complex understanding of vision, most exhaustively in
AND
of ethics to consider the grounds of possibility of modern forms of violence.

Status quo oppression is functionally a militaristic war on the poor – reject the desire to revert to the status quo in the face of wildly constructed threats in favor of including the narratives of the oppressed
**Cuomo 96**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies @ Univ of Cincinnati, Chris, “War is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Vol. 11, No. 4, Women and Violence (Autumn, 1996), pp. 30-45, dml]</span>
Theory that does not investigate or even notice the omnipresence of militarism cannot represent or
AND
the "war on crime," and other state-funded militaristic campaigns.

Our framework is one of empathy – we believe you have an ethical obligation to assist those who have been marginalized in the status quo – this is the only way to peace
**The Dalai Lama 93**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Speech given to the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna, Austria, June 1993, [[http://www.freetibet.org/about/dalai5]], dml]</span>
“Our world is becoming smaller and ever more interdependent with the rapid growth in
AND
I am just one individual while others are infinite in number and importance.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And, absent a mindset shift towards peace and empathy, a mentality of pure war will overcome us, negating value to life and making extinction inevitable</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Borg 3</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[co-founder and executive director of the Community Consulting Group, Mark, “Psychoanalytic Pure War: Interactions with the Post-Apocalyptic Unconscious,” Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society, Volume 8, Number 1, Spring 2003, pp. 57-67, dml]</span>
Virilio and Lotringer gave the name “pure war” to the psychological condition that
AND
but we no longer have the means of recognizing it” (42).

And, adopting a framework of empathy makes war impossible
**Dews 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[professor of philosophy at the University of Essex, Peter, “The Idea of Evil,” Blackwell Publishing LTD, 2007]</span>
The face, then, is not an object, but the condition of all
AND
is accomplished in shame where freedom discovers itself murderous in its very exercise.

And, our ethical obligation to those in need comes before everything else
**Lingis 5**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Alphonso, Professor of Philosophy at Penn State. Addressing Levinas, edited by Eric Sean Nelson, Antje Kapust, and Kent Still, p. 98-109][Gender modified] 2005]</span>
In facing me, he not only shows himself to be different from me–
AND
suffering of someone of my species with all the resources of the environment.

Structural harms outweigh all other considerations.
**Abu-Jamal 98**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation
AND
away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.

Nuclear war would only kill one tenth of the population
**Martin 82**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html)</span>
To summarise the above points, a major global nuclear war in which population centres
AND
the capacity to kill everyone on earth, is highly misleading.[14]