[[toc]]
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Questions? E-mail joehamaker@gmail.com (2N) or annerussl37@gmail.com (2A)</span>
=Affirmative= 
==__**Bridges 1AC**__== 

===**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Observation 1: Inherency</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Current levels of investment in the Federal Highway Bridge Program are insufficient to keep up with rapid deterioration of thousands of our nations bridges . </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TRANSPORTATION FOR AMERICA</span> March 30 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011 </span>**Lilly Shoup, Nick Donohue and Marisa Lang The Fix We’re In For: The State of Our Nation’s Bridges the largest, most diverse coalition working on trans¬portation reform today http://t4america.org/docs/bridgereport/bridgereport-national.pdf
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Congress created the Federal Highway Bridge Program to fix and replace deficient bridges throughout the </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">nation’s bridges will require major structural investments within the next 15 years.</span>2
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Plan: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in bridge repair and maintenance. </span>**



===**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Observation 2: Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Additional federal investment is essential, must ensure funds are used for bridge repair and allow regular maintenance to be undertaken on all bridges.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TFA </span>(TRANSPORTATION FOR AMERICA) March 30 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011 </span>**Lilly Shoup, Nick Donohue and Marisa Lang The Fix We’re In For: The State of Our Nation’s Bridges the largest, most diverse coalition working on trans¬portation reform today http://t4america.org/docs/bridgereport/bridgereport-national.pdf
As the chart earlier in this report shows, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the federal transportation program currently provides </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
whether in vehicles, on foot or bicycle, or using public transportation.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Almost 70,000 bridges are structurally deficient and need repair. 70.9 billion is needed to address the backlog of bridges.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TFA </span>(TRANSPORTATION FOR AMERICA) March 30 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011 </span>**Lilly Shoup, Nick Donohue and Marisa Lang The Fix We’re In For: The State of Our Nation’s Bridges the largest, most diverse coalition working on trans¬portation reform today http://t4america.org/docs/bridgereport/bridgereport-national.pdf
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Despite billions of dollars in annual federal, state and local funds directed toward the </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
part of the Interstate System — near the end of their expected lifespan.



===**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Advantage One: Economy</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Economic recovery and growth are in danger because of lack of focus on job creation.</span>**
Robert **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pollin</span>**, Codirector, Political Economy Research Institute, [[http://truth-out.org/news/item/9666-jobs-numbers-show-recession-far-from-over]] Jobs Numbers Show Recession Far From Over **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">June 8 2012</span>**
POLLIN: <span style="font-size: 16px;">This is obvious stuff. This is economics 101. If you cut </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">there will be no significant improvement, if any, on job creation</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The future of American growth is unpredictable – potentially on our way off the cliff.</span>**
Tai **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Adelaja</span>**, Russia Profile, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">June 21, 2012</span>**. “Anemic Global Growth,” http://en.ria.ru/analysis/20120621/174170969.html.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The panelists, many of whom come from developing nations, place the blame on </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">greatest challenges facing policymakers</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, said Peter Ong, Singaporean Civil Service chief. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1 in 9 bridges are deteriorating – thousands are structurally deficient</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TFA </span>(TRANSPORTATION FOR AMERICA) March 30 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011 </span>**Lilly Shoup, Nick Donohue and Marisa Lang The Fix We’re In For: The State of Our Nation’s Bridges the largest, most diverse coalition working on trans¬portation reform today http://t4america.org/docs/bridgereport/bridgereport-national.pdf
Today, <span style="font-size: 16px;">one out of every nine bridges </span>that U.S. motorists cross
AND
“1” signifying the worst conditions and “51” the best.
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bridges are key to the economy – Preventative maintenance programs are the best option in the infrastructure industry for job creation and long term prosperity.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">TFA </span>(TRANSPORTATION FOR AMERICA) March 30 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011 </span>**Lilly Shoup, Nick Donohue and Marisa Lang The Fix We’re In For: The State of Our Nation’s Bridges the largest, most diverse coalition working on trans¬portation reform today http://t4america.org/docs/bridgereport/bridgereport-national.pdf
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bridges provide crucial access between regions and cities, linking workers to jobs, </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">ensure transportation agencies have enough money and accountability to get the job done.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">A national bridge investment campaign can employ thousands of workers; improving the economy and reducing poverty</span>**.
Donna **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cooper</span>** (Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress. Formerly the deputy mayor for policy for Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) “Repairing Bridges Can Lift Families Out of Poverty” Center For American Progress, September 27 **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">There are so many bridges in need of repair, nearly 68,000 in</span>
AND
Act, <span style="font-size: 16px;">can offer tens of thousands of Americans a bridge to greater prosperity</span>




**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Investment in bridges is necessary to solve for congestion and allow efficient truck freight travel– the nation’s bridges are “chokepoints” on our highways</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials</span>** **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008 </span>**http://www.transportation1.org/bridgereport/
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Adding further to the compelling need for bridge investment is the fact that the nation </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">traffic to slow down, conflict and become congested when volumes exceed design capacity</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Congestion destroys productivity, trade, and competitiveness</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Building America’s Future, 2011</span>**, pg 11.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Congestion and capacity constraints threaten to increase the cost of trade and impede our global </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
its trucking shipments below posted limits adds $2million in higher annual costs.
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Truck freight transportation efficiency has a direct link to economic growth</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">UDOT, 02</span>** January 2002, http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/freight_analysis/improve_econ/appa.htm#s1
Freight Transportation and the Economy: A Description of the Linkages The American economy can
AND
<span style="font-size: 16px;">economists would argue that productivity is the most important determinant of economic performance</span>.



**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Federal investment in bridge infrastructure maintenance is key to economic competitiveness and military mobility.</span>**
James L. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Oberstar</span>** SEPTEMBER 5**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, 2007</span>** (former U.S. Representative, Chairman of the Committee on Transportation Infrastructure) “Congressional Hearing on STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BRIDGES IN THE UNITED STATES” http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg37652/html/CHRG-110hhrg37652.htm
Many of our facilities are stretched to the limit of their design life and even
AND
through our highway trust fund, but we obviously have not done enough.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Infrastructure investment in bridges stimulates the economy—empirical evidence of both short-term and long-term growth. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Boushey 2011</span>** — Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, 2011 (“Now Is the Time to Fix Our Broken Infrastructure,” Center for American Progress, September 22nd, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html, Accessed 06-09-2012)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Investing in infrastructure creates jobs and yields lasting benefits for the economy, including increasing </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
This implies a total of more than 3 million jobs created or saved.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Royal 10</span>** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214
Less intuitive is how <span style="font-size: 16px;">periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force..

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Economic growth is vital to prevent the collapse of U.S. hegemony.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Khalilzad 11</span>** — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 “The Economy and National Security,” National Review, February 8th, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024
Today, <span style="font-size: 16px;">economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">US dominance is key to solve multiple hotspots that escalate to global war</span>**
Robert **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan</span>** (Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund) **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2007</span>** “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136
The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations
AND
<span style="font-size: 16px;">new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S.withdrawal would leave behind a power vacuum, spurring terrorism, economic turmoil and multiple nuclear wars.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Niall </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ferguson</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">, July/August </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2004</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143</span>
So what is left?<span style="font-size: 16px;">Waning empires. Religious revivals. Incipient anarchy</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>A
AND
<span style="font-size: 16px;">powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sustaining economic growth is vital to generate the resources needed to solve multiple global problems, like environmental destruction, disease, and other conflicts.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Silk 93</span>** — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the New York Times, 1993 (“Dangers of Slow Growth,” Foreign Affairs)
Like the Great Depression, the current economic slump has fanned the firs of nationalist
AND
<span style="font-size: 16px;">security, a healthier environment, and more liberal and open economies and societies</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Recent trends are misleading – the economy still needs a boost</span>**
Lucia <span style="font-size: 16px;">Mutikani</span>, reporter for Reuters, October 23rd, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2012</span>, “Consumers seen lifting GDP, but pace sluggish”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/23/us-usa-economy-gdp-idUSBRE89M1CY20121023

<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S. gross domestic product likely grew at a 1.9 percent </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
consumer spending may not be sustainable without a significant pickup in job creation.


**The recent unemployment numbers are misleading – they account primarily for part-time work. The real unemployment rate is 14.7%**

Peter Ferrara, Director of Entitlement and Budget Policy at the Heartland Institute, October 11th, 2012 Obama's Real Unemployment Rate Is 14.7%, And A Recession's On The Way, http://www.forbes.com/sites/peterferrara/2012/10/11/obamas-real-unemployment-rate-is-14-7-and-a-recessions-on-the-way/2/
<span style="font-size: 16px;">*BLS – Bureau of Labor Statistics</span>

Moreover, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the BLS</span> also <span style="font-size: 16px;">reported on Friday that the number of full time jobs </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
making a total decline of 38,000 in the last two months.


==Dam Safety 1AC (lay)== 

===Inherency=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">FEMA’s budget is only authorized for 13.9 million dollars, but its expenses for maintenance and upkeep of dams is over 29 million dollars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASDSO ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **__FEMA’s authorized funding level is $13.9 million__**. This breaks down </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">5) $8.5 million for the National Inventory of Dams.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Experts recommend that the Federal government increase FEMA’s budget for its state assistance grant system to compensate for not having enough funding, as well as allowing for the funding of the National Dam Safety Program to be included in its funding.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> ASDSO ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **__It is recommended that these funding levels continue and that the State Assistance Grant__** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">that the public awareness provision in the act receive its own funding.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt; line-height: 1.5; text-align: center;">National Security</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The states just don't have the funding to increase security and safety on dams, and are also lacking the needed number of inspectors inspectors for dam safety, only the aff can solve.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASDSO ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The responsibility rests almost entirely with the states. States have responsibility for safety </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">1,500 dams would need about 60 professionals as opposed to 6.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">We will isolate two separate reasons why dam failure risks the United States National Security interests</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The first scenario that we will isolate is that of natural disasters:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Natural Disasters such as earthquakes and storms will destroy dams- even if they don't dam infrastructure will deteriorate completely within the next 50 years unless we strengthen our safety and security of our dams they will collapse and fail.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lyng, Field, Lander and Carlson’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> July 16th 2012 Jeff Lyng, Kristin Field, Denali Lander, Denise W. Carlson Lesson: Are Dams Forever?</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contributed by: Integrated Teaching and Learning Program and Laboratory, College of Engineering, University of Colorado at Boulder <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.teachengineering.org/view_lesson.php?url=collection/cub_/lessons/cub_dams/cub_dams_lesson08.xml]]</span> Lesson: Are Dams Forever?</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contributed by: Integrated Teaching and </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Learning Program and Laboratory, College of Engineering, University of Colorado at Boulder</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Lesson Background & Concepts for Teachers </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.teachengineering.org/view_lesson.php?url=collection/cub_/lessons/cub_dams/cub_dams_lesson08.xml#contents|(Return to Contents)]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">¶ Nearly 800 dams have </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">a time, minimizing the downstream impact of releasing more water and sediment.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dam Failure is catastrophic, a specific example of a dam that needs to be improved is the Fort Peck Dam in Montana - collapse will cause a chain reaction of flooding across America’s heartland destroying everything in its path.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Farhat ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Jody Farhat, chief of water management for the corps’ northwestern division, the six major Missouri River dams http://modernsurvivalblog.com/natural-disasters/chain-reaction-dam-burst-to-split-heartland-usa/Chain Reaction Dam Burst to Split Heartland USA?¶ June 24, 2011, Submitted by: Ken (Admin¶ </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Is **__the Missouri River, the longest in the United States at 2,321__** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">that reason, California replaced most of that state’s hydraulic-fill dams.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The second scenario that risks National Security due to Dam collapse is terrorism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dams need to be hardened against terrorist threats- they are a critical piece of infrastructure. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">McKay ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> By: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.emergencymgmt.com/authors/Jim-McKay.html|Jim McKay]]</span> on March 01, 2011 James Demby is the senior technical and policy adviser and program manager for the FEMA National Dam Safety Program. He advises Sandra Knight, FEMA’s deputy federal insurance and mitigation administrator for mitigation, on matters pertaining to national dam safety. http://www.emergencymgmt.com/infrastructure/James-Demby-National-Dam-Safety-030111.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> How concerned are you about the threat of a terrorist attack on the nation’s </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">sure **__that our critical infrastructure is being hardened and protected from terrorist threats.__** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Terrorists will attack dams- their aim is to bring the US economy to its knees while killing more people than on 9/11</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Doro-on ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.iwawaterwiki.org/xwiki/bin/view/XWiki/annadoroon|Anna Doro-on]]</span> ’11<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.iwawaterwiki.org/xwiki/bin/view/Articles/Dams_Disaster|h t t p :/ /w w w . iw a w a te r w i k i . or g / x w ik i / b in / v i e w/ A rticles/Dams_Disaster]]</span> Engineer for the US Government Agency</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dam destruction is one of the greatest man-made disasters that can instantly generate </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">of 9/11 attacks</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Doro-on and Recca, 2011).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 21px; line-height: 32px;">__Solvency__</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;"> NDSP trains inspectors the best.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **Association of State Dam Safety ’12** What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Training for Dam Inspectors </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">NDSP sponsored many technical training seminars put on through</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">, ¶ dam design, dam failure analyses, seepage analyses and others</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Only the NDSP can do the plan.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">National Dam Safety Program’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **__Every state has sent at least one dam inspector to continuing education through the NDSP.__** Many </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">federal leaders have taken advantage of this important program, too. **__There is no other national ¶ program that focuses on training dam safety engineering and safety techniques__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The NDSP improves dams- creates technical areas based on past lessons, strategic guidelines are now ready- just waiting on funding.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> **FEMA’12** What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dam Safety Research </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Under the NDSP Research Program, new doors have been opened </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">available. Studies into the future funding ¶ for dam repairs are complete.</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The NDSP is critical to creating more safe Dams, and improving our critical infrastructure.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASDSO ’12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> What is the National Dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Safety & Security Program </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and Why Should It Continue? </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">ASSOCIATION OF STATE DAM</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">SAFETY OFFICIALS (ASDSO)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">450 OLD VINE ST.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">LEXINGTON, KY 40507</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">859.257.5140</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">FEMA’s National Dam Safety & Security Program is </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vital for the continuing progress toward improved </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">public safety and mitigation of disasters from dam </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">failures. Ht tp : / / w w w . d a m s a f et y . o r g /m e d I a/ D o c u me n t s /L e g I s la t I v e% 2 0H a n d ou ts/NDSPAHandout.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is essential to place a high priority on mitigating risk associated with all types </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">following Challenge for the Futures focus attention on future needs in dam safety.</span>

===Plan=== 
====The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for dam security and regulation for the National Dam Safety Program.==== 

==CIB 1AC- MSU== 
==Relations== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The plan revitalizes US-Mexico relations - Infrastructure is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Andrew </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Selee</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Vice President for Programs and Senior Advisor to the Mexico Institute at the Wilson Center, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Christopher </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, associate with the Mexico Institute, November 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Wilson Center, “A New Agenda with Mexico,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/a_new_agenda_with_mexico.pdf]]</span>
Summary The depth of economic ties with Mexico, together with declines in illegal immigration
AND
Dakota, New Hampshire, and Georgia, to name just a few.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">This spills over and solves alt causes – key to overcome negative perceptions</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Andrew </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Selee</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, vice president for programs at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and a senior adviser for the Mexico Institute at the Wilson Center </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Christopher </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, associate for the Mexico Institute at the Wilson Center </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">12/3/12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, CNN, “Getting ready for a new era in U.S.-Mexico ties,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/12/03/getting-ready-for-a-new-era-in-u-s-mexico-ties/]]</span>
U.S.-Mexico relations have been dominated for the past six years by
AND
such a change in perception occurs, the results will speak for themselves.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Perception key to access the strategic parts of the relationship</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Garza Antonio, Former U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, 12/3/12, Americas Society/Council of the Americas, “A first step is to get rid of outdated perceptions—on both sides,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.as-coa.org/articles/viewpoints-what-should-top-priority-be-us-mexican-relations]]</span>
The United States and Mexico have enjoyed a very healthy and respectful relationship. On
AND
relationship to a more strategic level—but it will take some work.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Relations key to Central American stability</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Andrew </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Selee</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Vice President for Programs and Senior Advisor to the Mexico Institute at the Wilson Center, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">and</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Christopher </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, associate with the Mexico Institute, November 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Wilson Center, “A New Agenda with Mexico,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/a_new_agenda_with_mexico.pdf]]</span>
As Mexico’s security crisis begins to countries will also have to do far more to
AND
active collaboration as growing economic opportunities reshape the region’s political and social landscape.
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Central American Instability causes global war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">James Francis </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Rochlin</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Professor of Political Science at Okanagan University College. 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">94</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, “Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America,” p. 130-131</span>
While there were economic motivations for Canadian policy in Central America, security considerations were
AND
, such as Contadora, as will be discussed in the next chapter.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Specifically, the plan provides momentum for Nieto’s reform agenda – US action is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Eric </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Farnsworth</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> vice president of the Council of the Americas and Americas Society, and Michael </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Werz</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, Center For American Progress, 11/30/12 “The United States and Mexico: The Path Forward,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/security/news/2012/11/30/46430/the-united-states-and-mexico-the-path-forward/]]</span>
Mexico inaugurates a new president on Saturday—Enrique Peña Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary
AND
to explaining why our countries are united by much more than a fence.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Plan’s a success for Nieto</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Ruben </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Navarrette,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> 11/26/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">“To-Do List for Obama and Mexico's New President,” CNN, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://pvangels.com/news-mexico/4362/to-do-list-for-obama-and-mexicos-new-president]]</span>
Those people are now taking another look at the PRI. The way they see
AND
his party to power, made a wise choice or a bad mistake.


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Nieto capital is key to broad energy reform, specifically natural gas investment from the US</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Peter Hakim, 11/26/12, president emeritus of the Inter-American Dialogue (“Won’t You Be My Neighbor?,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/26/won_t_you_be_my_neighbor?page=0,0]]</span>
Beyond immigration, Peña Nieto and his advisors consider(s) energy policy one
AND
best served by staying out of Mexico's debates about the country's energy future.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Declining oil revenue risks Mexico state collapse – timeframe is this year</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">James, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Bill James, 1-29-2011; BS Mathematics @ West Point, Seeking Alpha, Mexico Will Follow Egypt Into Collapse </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/249799-mexico-will-follow-egypt-into-collapse?source=hp_wc&wc_num=2]]</span>
Mexico seems likely follow Egypt into collapse within two years based on falling oil revenue
AND
additional days of transport do not exist and cannot be built in time.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Mexican collapse causes arms race and global instability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Haddick, 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Robert Haddick, Managing editor of the Small Wars Journal, 9/10/2010. Foreign Policy,http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/09/10/this_week_at_war_if_mexico_is_at_war_does_america_have_to_win_it</span>
Most significantly, a strengthening Mexican insurgency would very likely affect America's role in the
AND
recently learned about insurgencies to stop this one from getting out of control.

==Trade== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">US-Mexico border congestion is killing trade –infrastructure investments are key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Christopher E., Mexico Institute, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (“Working Together,” Wilson Center, November 2011, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/Working%20Together%20Full%20Document.pdf</span>
More than a line dividing the two countries, the nearly 2,000 mile
AND
clear that transportation bottlenecks at the border are a drag on regional production.

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">This is crippling our economy – the plan ensures growth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Lee and Wilson, 12</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Erik, Associate Director at the North American Center for Transborder Studies at ASU, and Christopher E., Associate at the Mexico Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (“The State of Trade, Competitiveness and Economic Well-being in the U.S.-Mexico Border Region,” Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Mexico Institute, June 2012, http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/State_of_Border_Trade_Economy_0.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The National Economic Impact of Bilateral Trade and Border Management Commerce between the United States </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">costing the United States and Mexican economies many billions of dollars each year.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Independently key to auto industry competitiveness – certainty is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Figueroa et. al, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Alejandro, Research and Policy Analyst, NACTS, with Erik Lee, Associate Director, NACTS, Rick Van Schoik, Director, NACTS (“Realizing the Full Value of Crossborder Trade with Mexico,” North American Center for Transborder Studies at ASU, 12/9/11, http://21stcenturyborder.files.wordpress.com/2011/12/realizing-the-value-of-crossborder-trade-with-mexico2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">U.S. & Mexico’s Highly Complementary Economies The close economic ties between the </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">the final product which in turn helps create and sustain jobs in both countries</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Auto Industry key to chemical industry</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Joe </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Kamalick</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, 19 December </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">2008</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Chemical News and Intelligence, “Bush announces rescue loans for US automakers,” http://www.icis.com/Articles/2008/12/19/9180867/bush-announces-rescue-loans-for-us-automakers.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Survival of the Detroit automakers - General Motors, Ford and Chrysler - is of </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">mysteries and provide for humanity's basic and not-so-basic needs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Econ decline causes global catastrophe and nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Harris and Burrows, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> – *counselor in the National Intelligence Council, the principal drafter of Global Trends 2025, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_burrows.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Royal10</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Free trade creates structural disincentives for inter- and intra- state war and deters terrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Griswold, 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>
==Plan== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure projects at United States ports of entry to Mexico through the Coordinated Border Infrastructure program.</span>**
==Inherency== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">New bill wasn’t enough– there’s no specific allocation for border funds and the short extension prevents effective planning</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Nelson </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Balido,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> July 31, 2012, border trade alliance, “Trade makes some gains in new transportation bill, but long-term plan still needed”, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.thebta.org/tag/canamex]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">A top priority in the next bill will be to ensure that the Coordinated Border </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">with border region stakeholders in drawing up a long-term transportation plan.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">CBI solves border improvements – empirically proven – funding is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Balido, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Nelson Balido (writer for the Border Trade Alliance) May 6, 2011 “Transportation funding key to improving cross-border trade efficiency, country’s economic health” http://www.thebta.org/btanews/transportation-funding-key-to-improving-cross-border-trade-efficiency-countrys-economic-health.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">We find ourselves in a time of razor-thin federal budgets, and we're </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">administration understand the importance of CBI and its positive effect on the economy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Government action is key to stimulate the private sector –provides incentive and reduces redundancies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">“Steps to a 21st Century U.S.-Mexico Border” http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/reports/2011_us_mexico_report.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">We are encouraged by recent efforts by leadership at CBP to achieve our shared goal</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">decreases costs for businesses and provides governments with more accurate and accessible information.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Federal leadership is key to effective policy – only way to capitalize on relations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Wilson Center, 09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">(“THE UNITED STATES AND MEXICO: Towards a Strategic Partnership,” Woodrow Wilson Center Mexico Institute, January 2009, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/The%20U.S.%20and%20Mexico.%20Towards%20a%20Strategic%20Partnership.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Obama administration and the incoming Congress have the opportunity to raise the level of attention </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">infrastructure that can help overcome existing bottlenecks and stimulate development in border communities.</span>

=Negative= 
==Past 2NRs:== 
KCKCC:
Round 2 v. Jenks CW (Port Security)
1NC: Fiscal Cliff politics, elections, states CP, case
2NR: Elections, case

Round 3 v. Pembroke GS (Immobility)
1NC: Cap K, Displacement K, elections, case
2NR: Displacement K

Round 5 v. Hutchinson CK (Port Security)
1NC: Elections, states CP, case
2NR: Elections, case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]