[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=== === 

===Previous affs=== 

====Plan==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The USFG should invest in all necessary transportation infrastructure including local roads around overcrowded military bases with direct military cooperation</span>

====Contention 1 is hegemony==== 

1. Latest base closure round causes congestion to skyrocket- adds thousands of troop in congested locations

**Alexandria News ~’11**
(**Alexandrianews.org**, "BraceYourself For New Brac Traffic Patterns And More Congestion", 9/13/11, [[http://www.alexandrianews.org/2011/2011/09/braceyourself-for-new-brac-traffic-patterns-and-more-congestion/-http://www.alexandrianews.org/2011/2011/09/braceyourself-for-new-brac-traffic-patterns-and-more-congestion/]], accessed 7/9/12)

I-395 at Seminary Road where BRAC employees will exit for their new Mark
AND
in Fairfax County to the Mark Center along I-395 in Alexandria.


2. Current systems fail- can~’t handle influx of personnel
**00TRB 11** (Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, "Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases," http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302.pdf)

The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) 2005 round is fundamentally different
AND
response to growing populations and travel and partly due to severely constrained resources.

3. Each soldier added increases congestion exponentially- increasing capacity is key to solve

**TRB 11** ("Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases", Special Report 302, May 12, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302.pdf]])
As shown in Figure 9, the impact of additional traffic on congested ¶ highways
AND
and type of travel changes will have different effects ¶ on reducing congestion.


AND we~’ll isolate two internal links

First is base efficiency

1. New BRAC round threatens readiness- lowers productivity and threatens key missions

**Moran 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">James P Moran(Committee on Appropriations),7/27/2009,Congress of The United States(House Of Representations), [[http://alexandrianews.org/2009/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/gates-letter.pdf-http://alexandrianews.org/2009/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/gates-letter.pdf]]</span>

In the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the Fort Belvoii BRAC decisions
AND
traffic, then their ability to perform their duties will be negatively impacted¶

2. Increased congestion significantly detracts from mission-performance effectiveness and efficiency, that kills readiness

**Messina 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Debbie Messina(PhD In Journalism),PilotOnline.com, "Region~’s roads impede Navy mobility, report finds", [[http://hamptonroads.com/2011/07/regions-roads-impede-navy-mobility-report-finds-http://hamptonroads.com/2011/07/regions-roads-impede-navy-mobility-report-finds]]</span>

About 125,000 Navy personnel use area roads daily to get to work.
AND
the year, will survey military personnel about challenges on their daily commutes.


3. Traffic congestion limits base functions- infrastructure improvements are critical to DOD missions.
**SDDC 2010** (<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Surface Deployment and Distribution Command-Transportation Engineering Agency, "Defense Access Road Program Criteria Study," July 29, http://www.tea.army.mil/pubs/nr/dod/briefings/Defense%20Access%20Road%20Program%20Criteria%20Study.pdf) </span>

Cost of Congestion According to the Texas Transportation Institute 8, congestion caused urban Americans
AND
may result in the need to reduce congestion and/or improve safety.


4. Effective bases are the backbone of security and strategy

**Cornella et al. 05** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Hon Al. Cornella – Chairman of the Commission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States, Lewis E. Curtis III – member of the Comission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States, May 9, 2005, "Commission on Review of Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States", [[http://www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/obc.pdf-http://www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/obc.pdf]]~~]</span>

The military basing structure of the United States is part and parcel of its national
AND
our allies, not just today, but for¶ decades to come.

5. Effective bases are key to heg

**Monthly Review ~’02 "US military bases and empire" March 2002, Volume 53, Number 10**
3/1/02 [[http://monthlyreview.org/2002/03/01/u-s-military-bases-and-empire-http://monthlyreview.org/2002/03/01/u-s-military-bases-and-empire]]
The United States, as we have seen, has built a chain of
AND
.S.-dominated imperial sphere and of its spearheads within the periphery.

6. Readiness is the key internal to heg and independently prevents war

**Spencer 2000 ~~[Jack Spencer – Senior Research Fellow for The Heritage Foundation, September 15, 2000, "The Facts About Military Readiness", [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness-http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness]]~~]**

U.S. military readiness cannot be gauged by comparing America~’s armed forces with
AND
from acting aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace.



The Second internal link is training


1. Traffic congestion negatively impacts military training exercises and undermines quality of life, risking loss of high-skilled military workers.
**TRB 11** (Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, "Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases," http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302.pdf)

Increased highway traffic generated by base growth due to BRAC 2005, policies to grow
AND
for in the BRAC 2005 assessment of the impacts of military personnel relocations.


2. Training is key to readiness- increases quality of troops

**TAMU ~’11 Texas A%26M University**
(1/20/12 "Natural Resource Sustainability for Military readiness" [[http://military.tamu.edu/media/4642/naturalresoucesustainabilitymilitaryreadiness.pdf-http://military.tamu.edu/media/4642/naturalresoucesustainabilitymilitaryreadiness.pdf]])

Military readiness – the preparedness of U.S. Armed Forces – depends on
AND
of sustainability requires the engagement of both science and policy across political boundaries.


3. Retention of skilled personnel is critical to heg and future combat effectiveness.
Beerman 06 (Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Beerman United States Army, Doctor Mark GrandstaffProject Adviser, "INCREASING ARMY RETENTION THROUGH INCENTIVES", March 15, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448815)
The United States has three core strategic interests: preserve American security, bolster economic
AND
at sufficient levels to keep the Army ready to fulfill its worldwide commitments.


AND two impacts

First is power wars- Heg collapse causes great power wars- American predominance key to solve


Kagan, ~’07<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 ~~[Robert, "End of Dreams, Return of History," http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html~~%23n10~~]</span>

If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is nevertheless also
AND
a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.

Second is China War

1. Chinese capabilities increasing- strong US military key to solve

**Kelly 11/27** Chris Kelly- Political correspondent- Huffington Post "Crouching Fiscal Cliff, Hidden Aircraft Carrier" 11/27/12 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/chris-kelly/crouching-fiscal-cliff-hi_b_2195474.html-http://www.huffingtonpost.com/chris-kelly/crouching-fiscal-cliff-hi_b_2195474.html]]

Over the weekend, a Chinese knock-off of a Russian fighter jet,
AND
the EPA. But not defense. Not with the Liaoning out there.¶


2. Tensions increasing- threatens great power war

**China Daily ~’12 Zhang Zhixin- political correspondent**

**"A rebalancing that is way out of kilter" http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-11/30/content_15972981.htm**
More problematic is US foreign policy on the South China Sea and the Diaoyu Islands
AND
and stability, really needs to bring its rebalancing strategy back into kilter.

3. China war escalates to extinction
**(Johnson 01)**
Chalmers Johnson, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Journalist, "Time to Bring the Troops Home,"</span> The Nation, May 14, 2001 <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Volume 272, Number 19 accessed in print, August 31, 2010</span>
China is another matter. No sane figure in the Pentagon wants a war with
AND
forward-deployed US forces on China~’s borders have virtually no deterrent effect.


AND Heg key to global peace and solves democracy, human rights, and liberation

Barnett, ~’11 <span style="font-size: 6pt;">- chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee~’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy (Thomas, World Politics Review, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," 3/7, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]])</span>

Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that we stand at a crossroads
AND
a profound and persistent reduction in battle deaths from state-based conflicts.


====Contention 2 is disaster response==== 


1. Unprecedented numbers of disasters hitting the US now

**Borrenstein ~’11 Steven Borrenstein, Washington Post environment correspondent**
**11/27/11**


Nature is pummeling the United States this year with extremes. Unprecedented triple-digit
AND
, you were drowning is what it came down to," Masters said.

2. More are coming- climate change increases amount of disasters

**Ferris ~’12 Elizabeth Ferris, Co-director- Brookings Institute**
**("Future Directions in Civil-Military Responses to Natural Disasters" May 2012 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/civ-mil-disasters-ferris)**


Ninety-two percent of the disasters in 2010 were climate-related.
AND
of life in developing countries and far greater economic damage in developed countries.


3. Disasters affect millions each year and devastate local economies

**Ferris ~’12 Elizabeth Ferris, Co-director- Brookings Institute**
**("Future Directions in Civil-Military Responses to Natural Disasters" May 2012 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/civ-mil-disasters-ferris)**


Over the last ten years natural disasters affected more than 2.4 billion people
AND
from their homes and caused %24108.5 billion in economic losses.

4. Natural disasters cause death and destruction- local levels get overwhelmed

Mener Andrew S., 2007, Disaster Response in the United States of<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>America: An Analysis of the<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Bureaucratic and Political History of a<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Failing System, University of Pennsylvania <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Department of Political Science, [[http://repository.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1068%26context=curej-http://repository.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1068%26context=curej]],

While the disaster response system may be adequate in small-scale disasters when ¶
AND
to ¶ shock the political bureaucracy into action to repair the obviously ailing system


5. Military response is key to effective rescue efforts- Katrina prove

**Carafano ~’06 James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., Director of Heritage Foundation**
**("How to Keep Making Progress" December 13, 2005 http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2005/12/how-to-keep-making-progress)**


When local and state assets are overwhelmed during a disaster, it is appropriate for
AND
can get there and make a difference in hours ¶ instead of days.


6. Traffic congestion substantially increases response times

TRB ~’04 Transportation Research Board
**("Transportation Operations Programs: Status %26 Critical Issues," Aug 25, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181)%20final%20report.pdf)-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181) final report.pdf)]]//**


**//Many of the anticipated benefits of the national "interstate" system for national defense//**
**//AND//**
**//materials to the northeast~’s major air and seaports for subsequent ¶ movement overseas.//**

**//7. Effective and efficient military bases are key to military mobilization//**

//TRB ~’04 Transportation Research Board**//
//("Transportation Operations Programs: Status %26 Critical Issues," Aug 25, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181)%20final%20report.pdf)-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181) final report.pdf)]]


[[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181)%20final%20report.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181) final report.pdf]]
In the event of a defense or natural disaster mobilization, the Corridor will be
AND
all of these functions, it must support them efficiently and ¶ simultaneously.

8. Disasters cause massive epidemics- causes socioeconomic destruction and death

WHO no date <span style="font-size: 12pt;">World Health Organization</span>
"Global epidemics and impact of cholera" [[http://www.who.int/topics/cholera/impact/en/index.html-http://www.who.int/topics/cholera/impact/en/index.html]]

Man-made and natural disasters can intensify the risk of epidemics considerably, as
AND
Response Network participated in the verification of 41 cholera outbreaks in 28 countries.


9. Diseases cause extinction

Sandberg 8 (Dr. Anders, Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics – Oxford University, et al., "How Can We Reduce The Risk Of Human Extinction?", Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 9-9, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)

And unlike other weapons, pathogens are self-replicating, allowing a small arsenal to become exponentially destructive. Pathogens have been implicated in the extinctions of many wild species. Although most pandemics "fade out" by reducing the density of susceptible populations, pathogens with wide host ranges in multiple species can reach even isolated individuals. The intentional or unintentional release of engineered pathogens with high transmissibility, latency, and lethality might be capable of causing human extinction.

====Contention 3 is solvency==== 

1. The USFG should give funding to deal with traffic congestion – BRAC will only add more

**TRB 11 ~~[Transportation Research Board – division of the National Research Council alongside the Department of Transportation, "Federal Funding of Transportation**
**Improvements in BRAC Cases", February 2011, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302Summary.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302Summary.pdf]]~~]**

The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) is designed to provide an
AND
of ¶ military bases also should pay their share of needed transportation improvements.


2. Infrastructure increases capacity- that solves congestion

**Winston 91** <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">(Clifford Winston is an applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Studies Program at the [[Brookings Institution-http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation. Clifford Winston"Efficient Transportation Infrastructure Policy" The Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 1 (Winter, 1991), pp. 113-127 http://www.jstor.org/stable/1942705.)</span>

Transportation infrastructure provides capacity, in the form of traffic lanes
and runways, for highway and air trips, as well as durability, in the form of thick
pavement, to facilitate trips in heavy motor vehicles and large aircraft. Users of
the infrastructure impose costs on themselves and others by contributing to
congestion, which increases travel time, and by wearing out the infrastructure,
which necessitates maintenance expenditures to repair pavement and vehicles.
Efficient infrastructure policy maximizes the difference between social benefits
and the costs of use, including the costs that users impose on others, by
specifying pricing guidelines to regulate demand and investment guidelines to
specify design.

3. Specifically, adding lanes solves- reduces congestion and improves traffic conditions

**TAMU ~’11**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Texas A%26M University, College Station, TX, September 2011. Urban Mobility Report, Texas Transportation Institute</span>

Adding new lanes to an existing road or ¶ building new roads can reduce congestion
AND
emissions and fuel ¶ consumption, and increased productivity and ¶ economic development.

4. Even small improvements solve- a single lane can carry 2000 vehicles an hour

**Litman,**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> Todd. "Lessons From Katrina and Rita." N.p., 30 Sept. </span>**2005**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">. Web. 11 Oct. 2012. <http://westernite.org/Sections/sbr/articles/katrina.pdf>.</span>

A single highway lane can typically accommodate a maximum of about 2,000 vehicles
per hour, but less under mass evacuation conditions because of congestion, diverse and
overloaded vehicles (many tow heavily loaded trailers), weather (rain and flooding),
infrastructure failures (such as earthquake damage), and vehicle mechanical problems,
crashes and driver confusion. Assuming that each highway lane accommodates 1,000
vehicles per hour under such conditions and vehicles carry an average of 2.5 passengers,
each lane accommodates 2,500 passengers per hour. A four-lane highway can therefore
evacuate about 10,000 people per hour, or 20,000 if inbound lanes are reversed.


=Negative= 

=====2nr's===== 

==Roosevelt== 

Round 1: Elections

Round 2: Elections

==Aberdeen== 

Round 1: politics

Round 3: states, politics

==Millard== 

Round 2: competitiveness K

Round 3: competitiveness K

==Dowling== 

Round 2: politics

Round 4: competitiveness K

Round 5: states, politics

Doubles: T- in means throughout
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]