[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Plan</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Plan – The United States federal government should offer Alaskan land grants for the completion of the Bering Strait tunnel within the maritime boundary of the United States.</span>**


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC - Inherency</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Russia is fully commited to the Baring Straight Tunnel – U.S. support is key.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Moscow News, 12 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(“Tunneling Through America”, April 28, 2012, LexisNexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">reset with Moscow could bewelded in steel.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC - Relations</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The current US-Russian Relationship is just lip – the reset is failing.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">NYT, 12/12 –</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Thomas E. Graham and Dimitri Trenin, 12/12/12, "Why the Reset Should Be Reset", </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/13/opinion/global/why-the-russia-reset-should-be-reset.html?_r=0|www.nytimes.com/2012/12/13/opinion/global/why-the-russia-reset-should-be-reset.html?_r=0]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AS President Obama approaches his second term, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">interests for a long-term cooperative relationship.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – The Aff solves a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Barry, 11 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Mark P., Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, October 04, 2011, “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The Russian Impact on the U.S</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">great global task of permanent peace-building.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Cooperation is the linchpin of peaceful</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">AND</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">the alternative is aggressive postures making conflict inevitable.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Huebert, 10 –</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Rob, Fellow of the Canadian Defence & Foreign Affairs Institute and Professor of Political Science University of Calgary, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment” Canadian Defence & Foreign Affairs Institute, March 2010, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Council.26 In both instances it was </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">: what are the states saying and doing?</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Arctic on the brink of great-power conflict – diplomacy is no longer an option.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Tassinari, 9/7 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Fabrizio, A non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, [[http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">BERLIN - </span><span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The geopolitics of the Arctic are </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">the prospect of an Arctic race building up.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Best scholarship proves our impact.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Murray, PhD, 12 –</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Robert W., PhD Political Science, MA International Realations, BA (Hons) U.S. History, Professor of Political Science at Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">It is no overstatement to </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">into changes to state security strategies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – That goes nuclear.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wallace, PhD, 10 – </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Michael, PhD Political Science University of Michigan, MA McGill University, BA McGill University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”, [[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The fact is, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">because of climate change.”</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – The impact is extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Corcoran, PhD, 09 – </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Ed, PhD, Senior Fellow @ Global Security, Frmr. Strategic Analyst at the US Army War College where he chaired studies for the Office of the Deputy Chief of Operations and member of the National Advisory Board for the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues, 4/21, 2009, [[http://sitrep.globalsecurity.org/articles/090421301-strategic-nuclear-targets.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">That brings us to Russia, our former </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">stop escalation short of a total nuclear exchange</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – The internal link is reversible – cooperation can change Russia course.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Trent, 11 –</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Packard C., Lieutenant, United States Navy B.S., United States Merchant Marine Academy, 2003, “AN EVALUATION OF THE ARCTIC—WILL IT BECOME AN AREA OF COOPERATION OR CONFLICT?” Naval Postgraduate School, March 2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2011/March/11Mar_Trent.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As mentioned, Russia is implementing the measures </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">agreement, the potential for conflict will remain.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Good Russian relations solve everything</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Collins & Rojansky, 10 –</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(James, appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program in January of 2007 He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP, and Matthew, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment. An expert on U.S. and Russian national security and nuclear weapons policies, his work focuses on relations among the United States, NATO, and the states of the former Soviet Union. Additionally, he is responsible for Carnegie’s Ukraine Program and analysis of politics and security in Eastern Europe, including Belarus and Moldova. From 2007–2010, Rojansky served as executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America (PSA). Founded by former Congressman Lee Hamilton (D-IN) and former Senator Warren Rudman (R-NH), with a group of two dozen former senior leaders from both political parties, PSA seeks to rebuild bipartisan dialogue and productive debate on U.S. national security and foreign policy challenges. While at PSA, Rojansky orchestrated high-level bipartisan initiatives aimed at repairing the U.S.–Russia relationship, strengthening the U.S. commitment to nuclear arms control and nonproliferation, and leveraging global science engagement for diplomacy] “Why Russia Matters” The Carnegie Endowment 8/18/10 accessed: 6/29/12 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">A year and a half after Barack </span><span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Obama </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">own borders, </span><span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">it will have no choice.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC - Integration</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">The plan leads to global rail integration – solves all war.</span>**
<span class="Heading4Char" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Burroughs, 10 –</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Craig, Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, 2/11/10, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The benefits to international relations between countries on </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">a solution to real or perceived international injustices.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Power links will be laid before the railroad is even completed – this alone pays for the project.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Burroughs, 09</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Craig, Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprisesfast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The rail right-</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">of the overall project</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Connecting the US and Russian electrical grids spills over to unite the entire planet – solves energy availability and makes growth sustainable.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">GENI, 11 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Global Energy Network Institute, "Global Energy Grid - The Details”, 9/06/2011, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology|http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/issues/overview/grid.shtml#existingtechnology]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">All the </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">development.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Plan leads to global energy connectivity unifying the globe and stabilizing population and preventing environmental catastrophe.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Fuller, 12 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Buckminster Fuller, Buckminster Fuller started the idea of the strait and created a project manifesto which is updated constantly, June 6, 2012,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The world energy network grid will be responsible </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">development of new technologies." (Page 253) </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Overpopulation and wasteful development destroys biodiversity and causes a massive human dieoff.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CFBD, 12 –</span>**</span> <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Center for Biological Diversity, “Overpopulation and Extinction,” Date is last modified, May 31, [[http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">We’re in the midst of the Earth’s sixth </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">global threat level, but it is severe.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Finally – Biodiversity is key to check extinction.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Watson, 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The facts are clear. More plant and </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">and mind numbing specter of massive human destruction.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">1AC – Solvency</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Land grants provide necessary access and guarantees for private investment.</span>**
**<span class="Heading4Char" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Burroughs, 09 –</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Craig, Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, 2/11/20 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The big question in any multi-nation </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">interest on their investment in the railroad’s bonds.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – Direct US involvement is key to access – outsourcing the plan will lock the US out</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soloview, 12 –</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Fyodor, Founder, Interbering.com, Interbering Breifing, 6-25-2012, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.interbering.com/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Alaska will benefit from a through rail connection </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">river Elba in Germany to end a war.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">And – U.S. and Russia are key – other countries will get on board</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire, 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">A decision on building a tunnel under the </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AND </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">so multilateral cooperation is inevitable," he said.</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]