[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Heritage Hall 1AC== 
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Chapter One: Where the sidewalk ends and the barbed wire fence begins</span>**=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">In today’s American political imagination, the word ‘segregation’ conjures up visions of the past. Conventional wisdom holds that because deliberate school segregation is illegal, any remaining segregation is the natural, inevitable result of private choices. This view of segregation transforms the politics of racial subordination into a depoliticized fact for which no one bears responsibility. Deliberate racial segregation is thus quite literally hidden in plain sight. </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; line-height: 1.5;"> **Ford, 94** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1844-1845)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">It is now passe' […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> in the face of civil rights reform, is not mysterious</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Busing between predominantly white and predominantly minority school districts was one of the most promising solutions to de facto segregation, but the Supreme Court's Milliken v Bradley decision ruled that busing between districts was unconstitutional except in rare cases, enabling white flight to the suburbs –</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Lawrence, 2010 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Christopher, Professor of Political Science, Texas A&M, “Busing/Anti-Busing” In Thomas Langston, ed., “The Encyclopedia of U.S. Political History”, vol. 6. CQ Press </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.cnlawrence.com/papers/busing.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">The NAACP revisited […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> extensive two-way busing.</span>__

===**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thus the Plan: Upon the next available test case the United States Supreme Court </span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">should substantially increase the United States federal government’s investment in busing by overruling Milliken v. Bradley 418 U.S. 717 (1974) by holding that there is no basis either in law or in practicalities justifying the interposition of school district boundaries as absolute barriers to the implementation of an effective desegregation remedy.</span>**=== 
===<span style="text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 20pt;">Chapter Two: Foucault’s Fear</span>**</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The Milliken Court exerted bio-political control over minorities by using city boundaries to trap the minorities within the city limits. Ford 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Richard Thompson Ford, Assistant Professor of Law, Stanford Law School, June 1994, Harvard Law Review, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 1843, p. 1844-1845)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In Milliken</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[…] __innocently nonrational__."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Minority students become trapped in the system. They are told they have one role – that of the social deviant, the criminal – and they are physically unable to escape the neighborhoods in which they live. They are shipped from increasingly prison like schools directly into a literal prison. They have no choice but to embrace the role they are assigned. The bio-political system works</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Fuentes, 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Annette Fuentes, Adjunct Professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, April 8, 2004, online: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.blackcommentator.com/85/85_guest_schoolhouse.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Columbine-style […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> The system works</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The intersection of racism and bio-politics is the single political logic that enables mass slaughter and genocide. The urban students cast as deviant threats to proper American society are a prime example of the targets of the ceaseless war made inevitable by racist bio-politics.</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Mendieta, 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Eduardo Mendieta, Professor of Philosophy at SUNY-Stony Brook, April 25, 2002, online: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">, accessed October 26, 2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">I have thus far […] biological in nature</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">This unending war – invisible even to those it targets – is worse than nuclear war. Their impact scenarios are attempts by the system to keep the real war hidden and serve to intensify structural violence. You should hold their impacts as epistemologically suspect.</span></span>****<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Abu-Jamal, 98 </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">It has often […] the world."</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Gilligan, p. 196]</span>
===<span style="text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 20pt;">Chapter Three: Segregated Education</span>**</span>=== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Milliken v Bradley set the struggle for desegregation back to the era of Plessy v Fergusen, allowing school districts to perpetuate racially-separated schools on a massive scale, interlocking and mutually reinforcing racially segregated housing and income patterns –</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Jones, '92</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Nathaniel R., 6th Circuit Court of Appeals Judge, Symposium: Brown v. Board of Education and Its Legacy: A Tribute to Justice Thurgood Marshall, Milliken v. Bradley: Brown's Troubled Journey North, 61 Fordham L. Rev. 49 )</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Milliken v. Bradley</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[…] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">majority</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> did</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Internalized racism is the ultimate form of dehumanization, depriving minorities of their agency – </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; text-align: left;">Feagin 2K</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;"> (Joe, Texas A&M Prof Liberal Arts & Sociology, //Racist America – Roots, Current Realities, and Future Reparations//, Routledge New York and London TD)</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Heading2Char">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alienation of […] its spatial manifestations.</span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Dehumanization is a prerequisite to all atrocities and it must be rejected in every instance – </span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Maiese, '03</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Michelle, Research staff member for Conflict Research Consortium, "Dehumanization", </span>[[http://intractableconflict.org/m/dehumanization.jsp]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> TD)</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Dehumanization is a […]</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> or even necessary.</span></span></span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]