[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==SBMD 1AC Broken @ Valley== 

==1AC== 
**Contention One is Inherency**

**The US is rapidly expanding BMD capabilities in the status quo that will fail without SBMD deployment**
**Mooney, 08** (Kevin, staff writer for CNS News. “Space-Based Missile Defense Needed to Counter Global Threats, Experts Say”[[http://www.cnsnews.com/public/Content/Article.aspx?rsrcid=36145]])

Only a space-based missile defense system capable of intercepting and destroying incoming warheads in the “boost phase” (shortly after they are launched) can adequately protect America from emerging global threats, national security experts told a forum hosted the Heritage Foundation on Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008. The ground- and sea-based systems deployed by the U.S. over the past few years are a promising start that can help guard against limited strikes from rogue powers such as North Korea and Iran, the Bush administration maintains. However, the existing system is not equipped to handle the more sophisticated weaponry and countermeasures that Russia and China are now developing, warned Amb. Hank Cooper, chairman of the missile defense research organization High Frontier. Moreover, rogue states like Iran “who know how to play the game” also are testing new missile technology that could be deployed against the U.S. in unconventional ways, Cooper suggested. One nightmare scenario involves a ship-borne Scud missile that could be used to launch and explode a nuclear weapon in the atmosphere over the U.S., creating an electromagnetic pulse that would fry electronics, he warned. The most compelling program design to date stems from President Reagan’s “Strategic Defense Initiative” (SDI), which was first spelled out in a March 1983 address, Cooper noted. Going back to the late 1980s and early 1990s, plans called for small, highly mobile, space-based interceptors called “brilliant pebbles” that would be housed in protective cylinders and armed with the ability to intercept and destroy incoming missiles. Former President George H.W. Bush endorsed the idea, although it ultimately was discontinued under the Clinton administration and has not been reactivated since that time, Cooper lamented. “We lost a generation of the best that came out of the SDI era in the early ‘90s and this has not been restored,” Cooper said. “This was an effective, affordable defense [concept] that could be used to stay ahead of countermeasures.” While the idea of missile defense remains controversial inside the United States, the spread of missile technology and heightened availability of destructive weaponry has not gone unnoticed in parts of Asia and Europe, where policymakers now seem keen on the idea of employing a protective shield, Jeff Kueter, president of the George Marshall Institute, observed in response to a question from CNSNews.com. “What we can see is a remarkable change in attitudes, particularly among some of our international partners, in recognizing the threat they face from ballistic missiles in their willingness to work with the U.S. to develop these capabilities,” he said. Kueter credited Japan for working in close cooperation with the U.S. to help build up sea-based anti-missile systems on the U.S. Navy’s Aegis Vessels. He also said America’s European partners have been moving in a positive direction. As CNSNews.com previously reported, there are now 26 NATO countries expressing formal support for missile defense. The multi-layered anti-missile system now in place includes a mix of ground- and sea-based systems that have the ability to attack incoming ballistic weapons in their mid-course and terminal phases, Kueter noted. Currently, the U.S. has 24 ground-based mid-course interceptors stationed in Alaska and California, with 30 planned for the end of this year, according to the U.S. Defense Department’s Missile Defense Agency (MDA). There also are 12 Aegis ships equipped with the surveillance and tracking systems needed to perform mid-course missile defense missions at the present time, and an additional six are scheduled to become a part of the fleet over the next few months, the MDA reports. Additional missile interceptors also will be installed as part of the Aegis system on 18 vessels in 2009, according to the MDA. The goal is to have 100 interceptors capable of engaging missiles in their terminal phase operating on Aegis before the end of next year, Kueter pointed out. The European Site Initiative also has gained momentum recently. Current plans call for 10 U.S. ground-based interceptors to be installed in Poland where they will operate in conjunction with a radar system in the Czech Republic. The missile interceptors will be placed at the Redzikovo Polish military base close to the Baltic Sea in the northern part of the country. Also on deck and ready for deployment in 2010 is the U.S. Army’s Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system. It can protect against both short- and medium-range missiles and can do so at longer ranges and higher altitudes than the interceptors now in use. The THAAD system will complement existing anti-missile defenses – not replace them – adding another layer to America’s present multi-layered, anti-missile defense blanket. These additional steps are effective as far as they go -- but, ultimately, there is no substitute for a space-based defensive layer that can target enemy warheads in their most vulnerable, earliest stages, Cooper argued. “A space-interceptor system is actually multi-layered, in and of itself, because it has a global presence and is capable of intercepting a missile in the boost phase, or mid-course phase, or even in the high endo-atmosphere before the re-entry phase,” he said. The boost phase is a “great time” to hit the target because the rocket is still burning, is easy to see, and can be destroyed before any decoys are deployed, Cooper observed. In the absence of a space-based defense, there are two systems with boost phase implications currently in development: the Airborne Laser System and Multiple Kill Vehicles. The Airborne Laser is housed inside a modified 747, where it would target moving missiles. Multiple Kill Vehicles, which are much smaller versions of the current crop of anti-missile interceptors, are capable of launching several kill vehicles at one time. “Neither system gets us where we need to be,” Kueter acknowledged in his talk. Still, he does see value in pursuing both systems as a way of sharpening and honing technology that can be more effectively applied as part of a larger missile-defense architecture over the long term.

**Space already weaponized – X-37B should have triggered the link and makes conflict over space more likely**
**Malik 10**- space.com managing editor citing Johnson-Freese and Dolman
(Tariq, “Air force says X37-B space plane is not a weapon,” 4/23/10, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2010/0423/Air-Force-says-X37-B-space-plane-is-not-a-weapon]], CJC)

The hush-hush X-37B robotic space plane launched by the United States Air Force late Thursday is many things, but it's no space weapon, according to high-ranking official with the project. Gary Payton, Air Force deputy undersecretary of space programs, scoffed at speculation that the X-37B space plane is the vanguard for a space weapon fleet and said its main purpose is to test space technology, not orbital weapons. "I don't know how this could be called a weaponization of space," Payton told reporters this week before the launch. "Fundamentally, it's just an updated version of the space shuttle kinds of activities in space." Payton's comments were aimed at questions from reporters on how the secretive nature of this X-37B may appear to other countries with and without assets in space. The unmanned X-37B space plane, now known as the Orbital Test Vehicle 1, actually began its life as a civilian project founded by NASA in 1999 to test landing and other spacecraft technologies. NASA turned the program over to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) in 2004. The Air Force took control of the project in 2006. [X-37B spacecraft photos.] Space policy analyst Joan Johnson-Freese, professor of National Security Studies at the Naval War College in Newport, RI, has told SPACE.com that the X-37B could either be a major advancement in human spaceflight or be the unmanned end result of the Air Force's dream of building a crewed space plane. "In any case, it is likely that other countries will see it as another capability intended to assure the United States will be able to dominate access to and the use of space," she said in an earlier interview. Spaceship or weapon? Payton said that the X-37B launch is primarily aimed at testing fundamental technologies for reusable spacecraft and space applications. "If these technologies on the vehicle prove to be as good as we estimate, it will make our access to space more responsive, perhaps cheaper, and push us in the vector toward being able to react to warfighter needs more quickly," Payton said. But it is the spacecraft's appearance as a rapid-response vehicle that can be launched on unmanned rockets has led to some speculation of its potential as a space weapon. "Regardless of its original intent, the most obvious and formidable [potential use] is in service as a space fighter - a remotely piloted craft capable of disabling multiple satellites in orbit on a single mission and staying on orbit for months to engage newly orbited platforms," comparative military studies professor Everett Dolman, if the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies at the Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala., has told SPACE.com. That capability "would be a tremendous tactical advantage." Dolman said it's still too early to determine what the ultimate use for the X-37B, or any future successors, may be. The X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle 1 was built by Boeing in Seal Beach, Calif., and weighs about 11,000 pounds (about 5,000 kg). This SPACE.com X-37B graphic illustrates some details of the space plane and its relative size. Mini-shuttle in space Air Force officials have said the X-37B will be tested as a "flexible space test platform to conduct various experiments and allow satellite sensors, subsystems, components and associated technology to be efficiently transported to and from the space environment." The space plane's payload bay can fit a couple of small satellites to be launched and deployed, but it does not have a robotic arm to grapple objects in space and retrieve them. That means it could be used to support military operations oversees by rapidly deploying space-based assets like small communications or reconnaissance satellites. "This launch helps ensure that our warfighters will be provided the capabilities they need in the future," said Air Force Col. Andre Lovett, 45th Space Wing vice commander, Launch Decision Authority for the mission, after the launch. The X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle also has a long loiter time in space. It has a solar array tucked in its payload bay that can keep it powered up for around 270 days, Air Force officials have said. "We, the Air Force, have suite of military missions in space and this new vehicle could potentially help us do those missions better," Payton said. Payton has said he envisions the X-37B has functioning much like the SR-71 Blackbird spy aircraft, being on alert in times of need to fly a mission that could support military operations. The time between flights, during a rush period of many space launches, could be as little as 10 to 15 days, Payton said. It is still unknown how long the first X-37B will remain in orbit. But when it returns, it is expected to autonomously fly itself through the Earth's atmosphere and land at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, with Edwards Air Force Base as a backup.

**1ac – Plan**

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should implement a Brilliant Pebbles system beyond the mesosphere.**



**Contention Two is Space Domination**


**Conflict over space is inevitable – reliance on space for terrestrial warfare guarantees it - 2.5 thousand years of history prove**
**Smith,** Colonel and PhD in IR, **11** (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press,[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)

It is a rule in strategy, one derived empirically from the evidence of two and a half millennia, that anything of great strategic importance to one belligerent, for that reason has to be worth attacking by others. And the greater the importance, the greater has to be the incentive to damage, disable, capture, or destroy it. In the bluntest of statements: space warfare is a certainty in the future because the use of space in war has become vital. . . . Regardless of public sentimental or environmentally shaped attitudes towards space as the pristine final frontier, space warfare is coming.20 The strategic value of space to states is not in question. Advanced spacefaring states are already reliant—and moving toward dependence—on space-derived services for activities across every sector of their societies. Spacepower is becoming critical to their styles of warfighting. Likewise, the injury that can be caused to such states by menacing their space systems can be considerable. Given these incentives, the beast of war will either break its chains all at once or stretch them slowly over time.21

**Weaponization inevitable – China, India, Japan, Korea developing now**
**Voice of America 8/30** – Ivan Broadhead, 8/30/2011, “China Moves Toward Permanent Space Presence”,[[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/China-Moves-Toward-Permanent-Space-Presence-128773673.html]], BBQ

China is expected to launch its Tiangong 1 space laboratory in the coming days. A country that only eight years ago put its first taikonaut (astronaut) into orbit could, in eight more years, be the only country to possess a permanently-crewed space station. Chinese media report that the Tiangong 1, or “Heavenly Palace”, is being readied for flight at the Jiuquan launch facility in Inner Mongolia. The module represents the first element of China’s plan to develop a manned space station, which Beijing hopes will be fully operational by 2020. Professor Kwing-Lam Chan of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology is involved in analysis of China’s lunar program. He explains the objective of this first Tiangong mission: “It’s a lab for testing the connection between spacecraft: Shenzhou 8 will be sent [up] probably this year, and will be connected to Tiangong 1 for testing, but will not carry people,” he said. State media report that China’s space program aims to enhance the country’s “progress, power and prestige”. Under military authority, it has advanced rapidly despite European Union and U.S. embargoes on trading in defense-related technologies with China. The Shenzhou spacecraft emerged from Russian Soyuz technology in the late 1990s. A first manned space mission for China followed in 2003, making a national hero of the taikonaut Colonel Yang Liwei. Professor K.L. Yung of Hong Kong Polytechnic University is helping develop equipment that China will use on the Moon next year. He suggests that while China’s space program is no more advanced those of other space-faring nations, a team of elite engineers and scientists is making incremental and cost-effective progress. “The main reason is obviously salaries in China are not that high. The other reason is, they are developing a lot of their own components because of the high-tech embargo; it actually helps them.” With the International Space Station, funded by Russia, the United States, Canada, Japan and the EU, slated for retirement in 2020, Yung points out that China could soon emerge as the only nation with a permanent, manned space platform. The potential for such a strategic advantage in space, aligned with China’s ballooning defense budget, is causing international concern. Last week, the U.S. Defense Department published its annual report on China’s military capabilities. The report concluded that Beijing is developing “extensive space warfare technologies". The report also found little evidence that “China’s leaders have fully thought through the global effects of employment of these strategic capabilities”. Although Beijing insists it “opposes the weaponization of space”, India, Japan and Korea continue to play catch up with their own indigenous space programs.

**Terrestrial military dominance entirely dependent on space assets - weaponization key to their protection**
**Dolman 5** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]], EMM)

The United States has embarked on a revolutionary military transformation designed to extend its dominance in military engagements. Space capabilities are the lynchpin of this transformation, enabling a level of precision, stealth, command and control, intelligence gathering, speed, maneuverability, flexibility, and lethality heretofore unknown. This twenty-first century way of war promises to give the United States a capacity to use force to influence events around the world in a timely, effective, and sustainable manner. And this is a good thing, a true transformation from conflicts past. That the process of transformation was well underway became evident in 1991, when the world’s fourth largest military was defeated in just ten days of ground combat. Unfathomably complicated battle equipment, sleek new aircraft, and promising new missile interceptors publicly debuted. Arthur C. Clarke went so far as to dub Operation DESERT STORM (ODS) the world’s first space war, as none of the accomplishments of America’s new look military would have been possible without support from space. Twelve years later, in Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), assertions as to the central role of space power could no longer be denied. America’s military had transitioned from space supported to a fully space enabled force, with astonishingly positive results. Indeed, most of the nation’s current space power functions were successfully exercised in OIF, including space lift, command and control, intelligence including rapid battle damage assessment, timing and navigation, and meteorological support. The tremendous growth in space reliance from OSD to OIF is evident in the raw numbers. Despite engaging with a 60 percent smaller force (fewer than 200,000 personnel v. over 500,000), satellite communications usage increased four-fold, from 200 to 800 Mbps (Megabits per second) capacity. Newly possible operational concepts such as reach back (intelligence analysts in the United States sending information directly to frontline units) and reach forward (rear-deployed commanders able to direct battlefield operations in real time) reconfigured the tactical concept of war. The value of Predator and Global Hawk Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), completely reliant on satellite communications and navigation for their operation, was confirmed. Special Forces units, paradoxically tethered to satellite support and yet practically unfettered in their silent movements because of them, ranged throughout Iraq in independent operations that were extremely disruptive. But the paramount effect of space-enabled warfare was in the area of combat efficiency. Space assets allowed all weather, day-night precision munitions to provide the bulk of America’s striking power. Strikes from standoff platforms, including Vietnam-Era B-52s, allowed maximum target devastation with extraordinarily low death and collateral devastation. In ODS, 90 percent of munitions used were unguided. Of the ten percent that were guided, none was GPS capable. By OIF, 70 percent were precision guided, more than half of those from GPS satellites. In ODS, fewer than five percent of aircraft were GPS-equipped. By OIF, all were. During ODS, GPS proved so valuable to the army that it procured and rushed into theater over 4,500 commercial receivers to augment the meager 800 military-band ones it could deploy from stockpiles, an average of one per company (about 200 personnel). By OIF, each army squad (6-10 soldiers) had at least one military GPS receiver. With such demonstrated utility and reliance, there is no question the US must guarantee space access if it is to be successful in future conflicts. Its military has stepped well over the threshold of a new way of war. It is simply not possible to go back to the violently spasmodic mode of combat typical of pre-space intervention. The United States is now highly discriminating in the projection of violence, parsimonious in the intended breadth of its destruction. For the positive process of transformation to continue, however, space weapons must enter the combat inventory of the United States.

**Only option is to weaponize space – critical to preserving hegemony. Weaponization by other nations inevitable – US needs to be first to prevent arms race**
**Dolman 10** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]], EMM)

This is the context in which the world now exists. The relatively stable global hegemony of US dominance since 1945, punctuated by limited wars and shifting balances of opposition, has relied on technology-dominant global power projection. Today, that technology is wholly integrated and inextricable from space support, and no state relies more on space power for its economic and security well-being than the US. Any effort to deny space capabilities would be a direct challenge to its hegemonic power, and the United States must confront the usurper or abdicate its leadership position. To be sure, China’s increasing space emphasis and its cultural antipathy to military transparency suggests that a serious attempt at seizing control of space is in the works. A lingering fear is the sudden introduction of an unknown capability (call it Technology X) that would allow a hostile state to place multiple weapons into orbit quickly and cheaply. The advantages gained from controlling the high ground of space would accrue to it as surely as to any other state, and the concomitant loss of military power from the denial of space to America’s already-dependent military forces could cause the immediate demise of the extant international system. The longer the United States dithers on its military responsibilities, the more likely a potential opponent could seize low-earth orbit before America is able to respond. And in such circumstances, the US certainly would respond. Conversely, if America were to weaponize space, it is not at all sure that any other state or group of states would find it rational to counter in kind. The entry cost to provide the necessary infrastructure is still too high—hundreds of billions of dollars, at minimum. The years of investment needed to achieve a comparable counter-force capability—essentially from scratch—would provide more than ample time for the United States to entrench itself in space and readily counter preliminary efforts to displace it. The tremendous effort in time and resources would be worse than wasted. Most states, if not all, would opt not to counter US deployments directly. They might oppose American interests with asymmetric balancing, depending on how aggressively it uses its new power, but the likelihood of a hemorrhaging arms race in space should the United States deploy weapons first—at least for the next few years—is remote. This reasoning does not dispute the fact that US deployment of weapons in outer space would represent the addition of a potent new military capacity, one that would assist in extending the current period of American hegemony well into the future. Clearly this would be intimidating, and America must expect severe condemnation and increased competition in peripheral areas. But such an outcome is less threatening than another, particularly non-liberal authoritarian state doing so, as the necessity of a response in kind is compelling. Placement of weapons in space by the United States would be perceived correctly as an attempt at continuing American hegemony. Although there is obvious opposition to the current international balance of power, the majority of states seem to regard it as at least tolerable. A continuation of the status quo is thus minimally acceptable, even to states working toward its demise. As long as the United States does not employ its power arbitrarily, the situation would be bearable initially and grudgingly accepted over time. Mirror-imaging does not apply here. An attempt by China to dominate space would be part of an effort to break the land-sea-air dominance of the United States in preparation for a new international order. Such an action would challenge the status quo, rather than seek to perpetuate it. This would be disconcerting to nations that accept, no matter how grudgingly, the current international order—including the venerable institutions of trade, finance, and law that operate within it—and intolerable to the United States. As leader of the current system, the United States could do no less than engage in a perhaps ruinous space arms race, save graciously decide to step aside and accept a diminished world status. Seizing the initiative and securing low-Earth orbit now, while the United States is dominant in space infrastructure, would do much to stabilize the international system and prevent an arms race in space. The enhanced ability to deny any attempt by another nation to place military assets in space and to readily engage and destroy terrestrial anti-satellite capacity would make the possibility of large-scale space war or military space races less likely, not more. Why would a state expend the effort to compete in space with a superpower that has the extraordinary advantage of holding securely the highest ground at the top of the gravity well? So long as the controlling state demonstrates a capacity and a will to use force to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a future war in space is remote.

**BP solves ballistic missiles and is imperative to US heg via deterrence – even perception of space leadership key to US military and economic primacy**
**IFPA 9,** (Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Missile Defense, the space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”) Amy
A symptom of this problem is the fact that, in spite of a commitment to protecting the United States from ballistic missile attack, little has been done to revive the cutting-edge technologies developed in the 1980s and early 1990s – technologies that produced the most effective, least costly ways to defend the U.S. homeland, its deployed troops, and its international partners from the threat of ballistic missile attack. The most impressive of these initiatives was Brilliant Pebbles. By 1992, that initiative – entailing the deployment of a constellation of small, advanced kill-vehicles in space – had developed a cheap, effective means of destroying enemy ballistic missiles in all modes of flight. Yet in the early 1990s, along with a number of other promising programs, it fell victim to a systematic eradication of space-based technologies that marked the closing years of the twentieth century and still impedes the development of the most effective missile defense today. The current state of affairs surrounding missile defense carries profound implications for the safety and security of the United States, and its role on the world stage in the decades to come. Without the means to dissuade, deter, and defeat a growing number of strategic adversaries, the United States will be unable to maintain its status of global leadership. The creation of effective defenses against ballistic missile attack remains central to this task. Historically, it is evident that the major geopolitical options that become available have been exploited by one nation or another. Those nations that are most successful in recognizing and acting on such options have become dominant. Others that have failed or have consciously decided not to do so are relegated to inferior political status. A salient case in point is ocean navigation and exploration. The Chinese were the first to become preeminent in this retrospectively pivotal area during the early Ming dynasty. However, domestic politics – strongly resembling missile defense politics in the United States of the past several decades – allowed this great national lead to be dissipated, with historic consequences felt until the present day, a full half millennium later. The subsequent assumption by Portugal of this leading maritime role resulted in geopolitical preeminence that was eventually lost to other powers. In the twenty-first century, maintenance of its present lead in space may indeed be pivotal to the basic geopolitical, military, and economic status of the United States. Consolidation of the preeminent U.S. position in space akin to Britain’s dominance of the oceans in the nineteenth century is not an option, but rather a necessity, for if not the United States, some other nation, or nations, will aspire to this role, as several others already do. For the United States, space is a crucially important twenty-first century geopolitical setting that includes a global missile defense. As American policy makers look ahead, new momentum and direction are needed in the pursuit of a truly global missile defense capability that incorporates space-based interdiction capabilities and addresses the current and emerging threats of the twenty-first century security setting. This updated edition of the IWG Report first published in 2006 contains new information and takes account of accomplishments and challenges that have arisen in recent years. It also addresses such issues as costs and timelines, together with other topics directly related to missile defense such as the evolving threat environment. The updated report is intended as an educational tool for those who seek to understand more fully the national security implications of missile defense and the requirements for missile defense.

**Heg key to global stability and accesses every major impact**
**Thayer**, Professor of Strategic Studies, **6** - Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa-bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak¬ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

**Even if heg decline is inevitable – plan will smooth transition and prevent great power wars**
**Dolman 6** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, [[http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408]], EMM)

Dolman: Well, I think that some assumptions that you made are extremely problematic. You know, the Soviet Union launched twenty ASATs into space and those were the worst of debris smashing into other satellites. Did that cause a debris problem? No, because it is a planned orbital mechanics issue that the kinetic force of that engagement goes into the atmosphere and debris is burned up on reentry. There are thus ways to use weapons in space that don’t really cause a debris problem, and there are ways to use them that ac-tually clean up space in orbit. But also I agree with you. No hegemon, no empire, no state or business lasts forever. Does that mean that we should accelerate our own decline? No. It is important to do things to extend it. The United States inevitably will lose its power relative to the rest of the world, so it needs to set up the conditions that are seen as beneficial around the world in such a way that whoever replaces the United States is going to be in the same sort of liberal mode that the United States had been, the same type of benevolent hegemon or follow-on power. What it cannot do is set up a situation where the next power is likely to be antithetical to those ideas. What I am talking about is extending the period of American hegemony into the foreseeable future, not creating a permanent empire in that sense, but continuing to have a situation where there is a power to create and enforce some sort of order.

**Intervention is inevitable- plan ensures it’s benign**
**Dolman 10** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576]], EMM)

There is little reason to believe the United States will forego the capacity to influence decisions and events beyond its borders, with military force if necessary. Whether that capacity comes from space as well as the other military domains is undetermined. But, the operational deployment of space weapons would increase that capacity by providing for nearly instantaneous force projection worldwide. This force would be precise, unstoppable, and deadly. At the same time, the United States would forgo some of its ability to intervene directly in other states because the necessary budget tradeoffs would diminish its capacity to do so. A space-heavy American military would structurally limit potential American imperial ambitions while simultaneously extending its global leadership role. The need to limit collateral damage, the requirement for precision to allay the low volume of fire, and the tremendous cost of space weapons will ensure they are used for high-value, time-sensitive targets. An opposing state’s calculation of survival no longer would depend on interpreting whether or not the United States desires to be a good neighbor; whether it will invade and occupy its territory. Without sovereignty at risk, fear of a space-dominant American military will subside. The United States will maintain its position of hegemony as well as its security, and the world will not be threatened by the specter of a future American empire.


**Contention Three is Conflict Escalation**

**SBMD deters missile use, solves all missile launch, and prevents conflict escalation**
**Pfaltzgraff et al 9** (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,”[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]])

The Response Given this multiplicity of ballistic missile threats, the Unit¬ed States must deploy a missile defense that deters hostile states from developing or acquiring missile capabilities that could threaten the United States, its allies and coalition part¬ners, and its forces deployed abroad. Furthermore, America’s missile defense R&D programs, together with planned de¬ployments, must be sufficiently robust to dissuade would-be missile possessors from attempting to challenge the United States. Washington must deter future enemies from acquir¬ing ballistic missiles, just as in the past it dissuaded them from developing strategic bombers because of America’s abil¬ity to overwhelm such systems. Finally, U.S. missile defense must be capable of defeating those ballistic missiles, what¬ever their range and type, that could be launched against the United States. U.S. and allied ballistic missile defense capabilities are an essential element of a broader damage limitation strat¬egy. The purpose of this strategy is to protect and defend the people, territory, infrastructure, and institutions of the United States and its allies to the greatest extent possible. This strategy is a marked departure from the retaliation-based deterrence strategy of the Cold War. It is a strategy specifically tailored to meeting the security demands result¬ing from the emerging multi-polar world, which has been brought about, at least in part, by the proliferation of bal¬listic missiles and nuclear weapons. A mix of offensive and defensive strategic forces, which are modernized to meet the new and challenging requirements of this strategy, will be necessary. Thus, a global and layered ballistic missile de¬fense system must be intricately linked to other strategic forces, where the broader strategic posture of the U.S. and its allies results in security benefits that are greater than the sum of its parts. As the United States dissuades future potential possess¬ors, it must recognize that threats are increasing at a pace that no longer allows the luxury of long lead times within which a missile defense could be developed and deployed. Therefore, the United States must develop and rapidly field a missile defense with global reach, capable of coping with threats against the United States and its forces and allies from any direction. At the same time, America must attempt to dissuade hostile actors from acquiring missiles by render¬ing such investments a poor use of limited resources. Ad-ditionally, given the uncertainty in predicting where, when, and by whom missiles might be launched – and what their targets may be – constant defenses are called for that are capable of intercepting missiles irrespective of their geo¬graphic origin. Other things being equal, it is preferable to intercept threatening ballistic missiles as far away from their intend¬ed targets and as early in their flight trajectory as possible. Best of all would be to have the capability to destroy an at¬tacking missile shortly after it is launched, while its rockets still burn and any perturbation will lead to its destruction – with, in many cases, the debris falling back onto the area from which the attack was launched in the first place. The ca¬pability to interdict a missile and its warheads in any phases of their flight (boost, midcourse, and terminal) requires an ability to detect and intercept the attack within a very few minutes and to track and destroy the attacking missile and its warheads during their longer midcourse traverse through space before they reenter the atmosphere. Finally, the last-ditch defense would be to destroy the attacking missiles as they reenter and pass through the atmosphere – and as ac¬companying debris and decoys burn up on reentry – in the terminal phase en route to their targets. The best defense ca¬ pability would be layered so that it could provide opportuni¬ties for destruction in all three phases of flight. Only space-based defenses inherently have this global capability and permanence. While sea-based defenses can move freely through the two-thirds of the earth’s surface that are oceans, their capability is limited by geography and by the specific operations of the fleet – including where the sea-based missile defense happens to be deployed at any given time, and how quickly it could be redeployed to meet a crisis situation. Air-based and ground-based defenses, meanwhile, can have global capabilities, but frequently take considerable time to deploy when and where needed and are also depen¬dent on the cooperation of U.S. friends and allies in permit¬ting the necessary supporting activities on their territories. Thus, only a space-based missile defense will possess both constancy and global availability, irrespective of allied sup¬port and agreement. As such, space-based missile defense constitutes the only truly global system, with all the rest be¬ing either regional or local.91 In the case of sea-based systems, namely the Aegis pro¬gram discussed in section 2, we have a regional system ca¬pable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal intercept de¬pending on where and how it is positioned, or vectored. It has a near-global application for regional operations, be¬cause it is sea-based and theoretically it can be deployed over any portion of the earth’s surface covered by oceans. A land-based system can theoretically be deployed anywhere over about one-third of the world’s surface and, depending on how it is vectored, under some limited conditions would also be capable of boost-phase, midcourse, and terminal in¬terception. Yet space-based missile defense alone is truly global in reach because of the medium in which it oper¬ates, unconstrained by overflight or territorial restrictions. It also offers inherent interdiction advantages, described in greater detail below.

**Conventional deterrence fails – only governmental SBMD solves all conflict**
**Frederick 9** – Staff College; Master of Airpower Art and Science MBA, Regis University; Master of Military Operational Art and Science, Air Command and , School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (Lorinda, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense”,[[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/fal09/frederick.html]])

SBMD progressed through various programs, such as GPALS, Brilliant Pebbles, Clementine, and SBL, despite dwindling support from presidential administrations following President Reagan’s. Pres. George W. Bush paved the way for the next administration to put SBMD on the international agenda. According to The National Security Strategy of the United States of America(2006), the United States may need new approaches to deter state and nonstate actors and deny them the objectives of their attacks.50 Additionally, the National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction (2002) states that “today’s threats are far more diverse and less predictable than those of the past. States hostile to the United States and to our friends and allies have demonstrated their willingness to take high risks to achieve their goals, and are aggressively pursuing WMD and their means of delivery as critical tools in this effort. As a consequence, we require new methods of deterrence.”51Cooperation on missile defense initiatives could increase global stability. By banding together in coalitions, countries can deter war by repelling an attack against any member.52 States and rogue elements will not be able to strike surreptitiously if they know that the international community could quickly discern the origin of any launch and compute potential impact points. Attempts by a rogue element to destabilize the region through the attribution of attacks to a state may initially promote the rogue elements own agenda. However, data provided by missile defense and other sensors can refute such claims. The shared international ability to identify launch and impact points might deter states and rogue elements from launching in the first place. The more nations cooperate with each other, the more stable the world becomes. Policymakers need to invest in the development of many different capabilities, including SBMD, to negate missiles in their boost phase and use the information gleaned from these developments to inform decisions. One approach involves bringing a system to the prototype stage for testing and accurately gauging its performance. This approach could let the United States invest in only a limited number of prototypes, thus deferring large-scale production to allow further research, development, and testing. These efforts could decrease the risk of failure during production and deployment.53 When the need arises, the United States should capitalize on preexisting prototypes as long as the industrial base could support rapid production. By funding R&D for SBMD, the United States would ensure the viability of these technologies. The DOD cannot expect developments in commercial industry to be available for national security purposes. Competitive pressures force industry to fund near-term R&D programs and choose near-term survival over long-term possibilities.54 Applied research into SBMD technologies would allow the United States to gain more knowledge about boost-phase defenses. America will get as much R&D in SBMD technologies as it is willing to fund.

**Acting first ensures total space control – failure to do makes space arms race inevitable – allowing China and Russia to block us out**
**Dolman and Cooper 11** (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)
Note: First 2 sentences are myths which the author intends to challenge.

Space is too vast to be controlled. If one state weaponizes, then all other states will follow suit, and a crippling arms race in space will ensue. Space is indeed vast, but a quick analysis of the fundamentals of space terrain and geography shows that control of just LEO would be tantamount to a global gate or checkpoint for entrance into space, a position that could not be flanked and would require an incredible exertion of military power to dislodge. Thus, the real question quickly becomes not whether the United States should weaponize space first, but whether it can afford to be the second to weaponize space. Space has been dubbed the ultimate high ground (see figure 19–2). As with the high ground throughout history, whosoever sits ensconced upon it accrues incredible benefit on the terrestrial battlefield. This comes from the dual advantages of enhanced span of command acuity (visibility and control) and kinetic power. It is simply easier and more powerful to shoot down the hill than up it. The pace of technological development, particularly in microsatellites and networked operations, could allow a major spacefaring state to quickly establish enough independent kinetic kill vehicles in LEO (through multiple payload launches) to effectively deny entry or transit to any other state. Currently, the United States has the infrastructure and capacity to do so; China may in the very near future. Russia is also a potential candidate for a space coup. Should any one of these states put enough weapons in orbit, they could engage and shoot down attempts to place counterspace assets in orbit, effectively taking control of outer space. Indeed, the potential to be gained from ensuring spacepower projection while denying that capability in others is so great that some state, some day, will make the attempt. In order to ensure that no one tries, space weapons opponents argue that the best defense is a good example. So long as the United States does not make any effort to weaponize space, why would any competing state be tempted to do so? And even if another state does attempt it, the United States has the infrastructure to quickly follow suit and commence a campaign of retrieval in space. Not only does the logic escape us, but also it seems that by waiting, the United States is guaranteeing what space weapons opponents fear most: a space arms race.

**Scenario One is North Korea**

**North Korean war inevitable, causes extinction**
**Chol 8/20** – Kim Myong, author of a number of books and papers in Korean, Japanese and English on North Korea, author of Kim Jong-il's Strategy for Reunification, Ph.D. in Social Sciences, Asia Times News, August 20, 2011, “Dangerous games”,[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/MH20Dg01.html]], BBQ

The United States and South Korea have totally disregarded North Korea's repeated objections by launching the 10-day joint war games Ulchi Freedom Guardian on August 16, involving 530,000 forces from the United States, South Korea and seven other countries. The number of US-led multilateral combat troops is more than enough to undertake a surprise invasion of North Korea. Objectives of the games It is all too obvious that in their multilateral war games, the Americans seek an opportunity to invade North Korea, capture its top leadership and establish a pro-American regime. Tokyo's Asahi Shimbun August 13 quoted military sources as revealing that far from defensive, the war game is part of the US-South Korea joint operation plan "5027", with troops training for a wide variety of missions, including a full-scale multilateral coalition invasion of North Korea, and a bid to capture supreme leader Kim Jong-il and topple the North Korean regime. Agence France-Presse reported on August 7 that one of the key objectives of the exercises was a search and destroy mission for North Korean nuclear weapons: "US and South Korean troops will practice destroying North Korean weapons of mass destruction during an annual joint exercise this month to improve their combat-readiness," according to a report. "The allies will form a combined unit called the Joint Task Force for Elimination (JTF-E) when they begin a 10-day Ulchi Freedom Guardian exercise on August 16," South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported. It seems the Americans are mad enough to risk initiating war with North Korea. A North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman stated on August 17: The US is staging exercises for a war of aggression against its dialogue partner while putting up signboard of dialogue. This incoherent behavior on the part of the US is only adding to the skepticism about whether it is sincere towards dialogue or not. It is very ill-boding that the US let "a special action unit" participate in the on-going joint military exercises as it is one tasked with detecting and destroying nuclear weapons of the DPRK [Democratic People's Republic of Korea]. The prevailing situation goes to prove that the US is not set to realize the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula through dialogue and negotiations but sees an opportunity to deprive it of nuclear deterrent by a brigandish method. No attempt on the part of the US to do harm to the DPRK by force of arms can go with dialogue. This will only face the mode of merciless counteraction of Korean-style. Nobel Peace Prize winning Barack Obama is most likely to be the first American president who will be fighting six aggressive wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Libya, Yemen and Korea, to paraphrase the words of former Reuters columnist Sherwood Ross. [1] Untoward incident could unleash shooting war The divided and heavily armed Korean Peninsula remains the most inflammable global flashpoint, with any conflict sparked there likely to become a full-blown thermonuclear war involving the world's fourth-most powerful nuclear weapons state and its most powerful. Any incident in Korea by design, accident, or miscalculation could erupt into a devastating DPRK-US war, with the Metropolitan US serving as a main war theater. Rodong Sinmun warned on August 16: "The Korean Peninsula is faced with the worst crisis ever. An all-out war can be triggered by any accident." Recent incidents illustrate the real danger of miscalculation leading to a total shooting war, given the volatile situation on the Land of Morning Calm. 1. The most recent case in point is the August 10 shelling of North Korea by the South. Frightened South Korea marines on Yeonpyeong Island mistook three noises from a North Korean construction site across the narrow channel for artillery rounds, taking an hour to respond with three to five artillery rounds. The episode serves as a potent reminder to the world that the slightest incident can lead to war. A reportedly malfunctioning firefinder counter-artillery radar system seems to partly account for the panicky South Korean reaction. South Korean conservative newspaper the Joong Ang Daily reported August 17: "A military source said that radar installed to detect hostile fire did not work last week when North Korea fired five shots toward the Northern Limit Line (NLL), the disputed maritime border, on Aug 10. "'We must confirm the location of the source of the firing through the ARTHUR (Artillery Hunting Radar) and HALO (hostile artillery location) systems, but ARTHUR failed to operate, resulting in a failure to determine the source of the fire,' said the source." BBC reported on November 25 last year the aggressive nature of troops on the South Korea-held five islands in North Korean waters. "Seen in this sense, they (five islands including Yeonpyeong Island) could provide staging bases for flanking amphibious attacks into North Korea if South Korea ever takes the offensive." 2. An almost catastrophic incident took place at dawn on June 17 near Inchon. South Korean marines stationed on Gyodong Island near Inchon Airport fired rifles at a civilian South Korean jetliner Airbus A320 with 119 people aboard as it was descending to land, after mistaking it for a North Korean military aircraft. The Asiana Airlines flight was carrying 119 people from the Chinese city of Chengdu. About 600 civilian aircraft fly near the island every day, including those flying across the NLL, but they face a perennial risk of being misidentified as a hostile warplane. It is nothing short of a miracle that the Airbus A320 was not hit and nobody harmed. 3. On March 26, 2010, the high-tech South Korean corvette Sokcho fired 130 rounds at flocks of birds, mistaking them for a hostile flying object. The innocent birds looked like a North Korean warplane just at a time when an alleged North Korean midget submarine had managed to escape with impunity after torpedoing the hapless Cheonan deep inside security-tight South Korean waters. The South Korean military's habit of firing at the wrong target increases the risk of an incident running out of control. CNN aired a story December 16, headlined: "General: South Korea Drill Could Cause Chain Reaction." F/A-18 pilot-turned Marine Corp General James Cartwright told the press in the Pentagon, "What we worry about, obviously, is if that it [the drill] is misunderstood or if it's taken advantage of as an opportunity. "If North Korea were to react to that in a negative way and fire back at those firing positions on the islands, that would start potentially a chain reaction of firing and counter-firing. "What you don't want to have happen out of that is ... for us to lose control of the escalation. That's the concern." Agence France-Presse on December 11 quoted former chief of US intelligence retired admiral Dennis Blair as saying that South Korea "will be taking military action against North Korea". New Korean war differs from other wars Obama and the Americans seem to be incapable of realizing that North Korea is the wrong enemy, much less that a new Korean War would be fundamentally different from all other wars including the two world wars. Two things will distinguish a likely American Conflict or DPRK-US War from previous wars. The first essential difference is that the US mainland will become the main theater of war for the first time since the US Civil War (1861-1865), giving the Americans an opportunity to know what it is like to have war fought on their own land, not on faraway soil. The US previously prospered by waging aggressive wars on other countries. Thus far, the Americans could afford to feel safe and comfortable while watching TV footage of war scenes from Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan and Libya as if they were fires raging across the river. The utmost collateral damage has been that some American veterans were killed or returned home as amputees, with post traumatic stress disorder, only to be left unemployed and homeless. However, this will no longer be the case. At long last, it is Americans' turn to have see their homeland ravaged. An young North Korea in 1950-53 was unable to carry the war all the way across the Pacific Ocean to strike back, but the present-day North Korea stands out as a fortress nuclear weapons state that can withstand massive American ICBM (Intercontinental ballistic missile) attacks and launch direct retaliatory transpacific strikes on the Metropolitan USA. The second essential difference is that the next war in Korea, that is, the American Conflict or the DPRK-USA War would be the first actual full-fledged nuclear, thermonuclear war that mankind has ever seen, in no way similar to the type of nuclear warfare described in science fiction novels or films. North Korea is unique among the nuclear powers in two respects: One is that the Far Eastern country, founded by legendary peerless hero Kim Il-sung, is the first country to engage and badly maul the world's only superpower in three years of modern warfare when it was most powerful, after vanquishing Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan. The other is that North Korea is fully ready to go the length of fighting mankind's first and last nuclear exchange with the US. The DPRK led by two Kim Il-sungs - the ever-victorious iron-willed brilliant commander Kim Jong-il and his heir designate Kim Jong-eun - is different from Russia under Nikita Khrushchev which backed down in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis. Khrushchev and his company never fought the Americans in war. As a rule, most countries are afraid to engage the Americans. As the case is with them, North Korea is the last to favor war with the Americans. However, it is no exaggeration to say that the two North Korean leaders are just one click away from ordering a retaliatory nuclear strike on the US military forces in Guam, Hawaii and metropolitan centers on the US mainland. On behalf of Supreme Leader Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-eun will fire highly destructive weapons of like Americans have never heard of or imagined to evaporate the US. The North Koreans are too proud of being descendents of the ancient civilizations of Koguryo 2,000 years ago and Dankun Korea 5,000 years ago, to leave the Land of morning Calm divided forever with the southern half under the control of the trigger-happy, predatory US. The North Koreans prefer to fight and die in honor rather than kowtow to the arrogant Americans. At the expense of comforts of a better life, North Koreans have devoted more than half a century to preparing for nuclear war with the Americans. All available resources have been used to convert the whole country into a fortress, including arming the entire population and indigenously turning out all types of nuclear thermonuclear weapons, and developing long-range delivery capabilities and digital warfare assets. An apocalyptic Day After Tommorow-like scenario will unfold throughout the US, with the skyscrapers of major cities consumed in a sea of thermonuclear conflagration. The nuclear exchange will begin with retaliatory North Korean ICBMs detonating hydrogen bombs in outer space far above the US mainland, leaving most of the country powerless. New York, Washington, Chicago, San Francisco and major cities should be torched by ICBMs streaking from North Korea with scores of nuclear power stations exploding, each spewing as much radioactive fallout as 150-180 H-bombs.

**Scenario Two is Nagorno**

**Nagorno-Karabakh brink of war – draws in Russia, Iran, Turkey**
**Englund 8/11** – Will, Washington Post, August 11, 2011, “In Nagorno-Karabakh, peace elusive 20 years after Soviet fall”,[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/20-years-after-soviet-fall-peace-elusive-in-karabakh/2011/07/20/gIQA8SFE8I_story.html]], BBQ

STEPANAKERT, Nagorno-Karabakh — This is where the first war set off by the Soviet collapse took place. And it may be where the next one breaks out. Twenty years ago, Armenians and Azerbaijanis, unleashed from Soviet control, waged a bitter struggle for this mountainous region in the South Caucasus. A cease-fire was reached in 1994, after about 30,000 people had been killed, leaving Nagorno-Karabakh outside Azerbaijan’s control, as an unrecognized, de facto republic in the hands of ethnic Armenians. Since then, no one on either side has had the will to hammer out a settlement. Tension has been put to use by those in power — in Azerbaijan, in Armenia proper and here in separatist Nagorno-Karabakh. Democracy, human rights, an unfettered press, a genuine opposition — these are the sorts of things that get put aside in times of crisis. And here, the crisis has been going on for two decades and shows little sign of letting up. “The development of democracy has fallen hostage to the conflict,” said Masis Mayilian, Nagorno-Karabakh’s former foreign minister and a onetime candidate for president. “This is very handy for totalitarian regimes.” A renewal of the war would be a disaster for all concerned, unless it were very quick. On this they agree. The two sides are much more heavily armed than they were in 1991, especially Azerbaijan. It might be very difficult for Iran, Turkey and Russia to remain uninvolved — and impossible to confine the fighting to Nagorno-Karabakh itself. A major supply route used by the United States to provision troops in Afghanistan would be disrupted. But resistance to a peace settlement along the lines of a proposal sponsored by the United States, France and Russia has been stiff. “We share the wish that there be no war,” said Robert Bradtke, the U.S. diplomat involved in the talks. “But do the parties have the political will?” So far, they don’t. Azerbaijan and Armenia, which negotiates on behalf of Nagorno-Karabakh, say they support the international effort to find a way toward settling the first post-Soviet conflict. “It is high time to do it,” Azerbaijani Foreign Minister Elmar Mamedyarov said recently in Moscow after meeting with his counterpart from Russia, which is especially intent on getting an agreement. But Azerbaijan also says that it will never formally surrender territory. And the people of Nagorno-Karabakh say they will never give up the right of self-determination. For two decades, both sides have kept passions inflamed, which turns out to be good politics for those at the top. But with snipers on both sides shooting at one another every day, occasionally causing casualties, and plenty of saber-rattling rhetoric, the chances of stumbling into a war of miscalculation, or a war of hotheadedness, are considerable. Tevan Poghosyan, who in the 1990s represented Karabakh in the United States and now runs a think tank in Yerevan, Armenia’s capital, said war is inevitable. It will take another round of fighting, he said, to “steam” the poison out.

**Escalates to nuclear war**
**Blank 2k** – Stephen, Fall 2000, World Affairs, “Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, JSTOR, BBQ

Russia's warnings about U.S. efforts to obtain military-political-economic leverage in the Transcaspian and the Russian elite's extreme sensitivity regarding the region show that Moscow will resolutely contest expanded U.S. presence. The war in Chechnya shows that Russia is willing to do so forcefully, if necessary. Russia's new draft military doctrine suggests that Moscow will threaten even World War III if there is Turkish intervention, yet the new Russo-Armenian and Azeri-Turkish treaties suggest just such a possibility.(75) Conceivably, the two larger states could then be dragged in to rescue their allies from defeat. The Russo-Armenian treaty is virtually a bilateral military alliance against Baku. It reaffirms Russia's lasting military presence in Armenia, commits Armenia not to join NATO, and could justify further fighting in Nagomo-Karabakh or further military pressure against Azerbaijan that will impede energy exploration and marketing.(76) It also reconfirms Russia's determination to resist U.S. presence and to remain the regional hegemon. Thus many structural conditions for conventional war or protracted ethnic conflict where third parties intervene now exist in the Transcaucasus and Central Asia. The outbreak of violence by disaffected Islamic elements, the drug trade, the Chechen wars, and the unresolved ethnopolitical conflicts that dot the region, not to mention the undemocratic and unbalanced distribution of income across corrupt governments, provide plenty of tinder for future fires. Many Third World conflicts generated by local structural factors also have great potential for unintended escalation. Big powers often feel obliged to rescue their proxies and proteges. One or another big power may fail to grasp the stakes for the other side since interests here are not as clear as in Europe. Hence commitments involving the use of nuclear weapons or perhaps even conventional war to prevent defeat of a client are not well established or clear as in Europe. For instance, in 1993 Turkish noises about intervening on behalf of Azerbaijan induced Russian leaders to threaten a nuclear war in that case. Precisely because Turkey is a NATO ally but probably could not prevail in a long war against Russia, or if it could, would conceivably trigger a potential nuclear blow (not a small possibility given the erratic nature of Russia's declared nuclear strategies), the danger of major war is higher here than almost everywhere else in the CIS or the "arc of crisis" from the Balkans to China. As Richard Betts has observed, The greatest danger lies in areas where (1) the potential for serious instability is high; (2) both superpowers perceive vital interests; (3) neither recognizes that the other's perceived interest or commitment is as great as its own; (4) both have the capability to inject conventional forces; and (5) neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation.(77)

**Scenario Three is Accidental Launch**

**Accidental Launch inevitable:**

**A. Cyberterrorism**
**Fritz 9** – Jason Fritz (Director of New Media Learning & Development and editor of the Office of Information Technology) May 2009 “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control” [[http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]]

This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons. Specifically, this research will use open source knowledge to identify the structure of nuclear command and control centres, how those structures might be compromised through computer network operations, and how doing so would fit within established cyber terrorists’ capabilities, strategies, and tactics. If access to command and control centres is obtained, terrorists could fake or actually cause one nuclear-armed state to attack another, thus provoking a nuclear response from another nuclear power. This may be an easier alternative for terrorist groups than building or acquiring a nuclear weapon or dirty bomb themselves. This would also act as a force equaliser, and provide terrorists with the asymmetric benefits of high speed, removal of geographical distance, and a relatively low cost. Continuing difficulties in developing computer tracking technologies which could trace the identity of intruders, and difficulties in establishing an internationally agreed upon legal framework to guide responses to computer network operations, point towards an inherent weakness in using computer networks to manage nuclear weaponry. This is particularly relevant to reducing the hair trigger posture of existing nuclear arsenals. All computers which are connected to the internet are susceptible to infiltration and remote control. Computers which operate on a closed network may also be compromised by various hacker methods, such as privilege escalation, roaming notebooks, wireless access points, embedded exploits in software and hardware, and maintenance entry points. For example, e-mail spoofing targeted at individuals who have access to a closed network, could lead to the installation of a virus on an open network. This virus could then be carelessly transported on removable data storage between the open and closed network. Information found on the internet may also reveal how to access these closed networks directly. Efforts by militaries to place increasing reliance on computer networks, including experimental technology such as autonomous systems, and their desire to have multiple launch options, such as nuclear triad capability, enables multiple entry points for terrorists. For example, if a terrestrial command centre is impenetrable, perhaps isolating one nuclear armed submarine would prove an easier task. There is evidence to suggest multiple attempts have been made by hackers to compromise the extremely low radio frequency once used by the US Navy to send nuclear launch approval to submerged submarines. Additionally, the alleged Soviet system known as Perimetr was designed to automatically launch nuclear weapons if it was unable to establish communications with Soviet leadership. This was intended as a retaliatory response in the event that nuclear weapons had decapitated Soviet leadership; however it did not account for the possibility of cyber terrorists blocking communications through computer network operations in an attempt to engage the system. Should a warhead be launched, damage could be further enhanced through additional computer network operations. By using proxies, multi-layered attacks could be engineered. Terrorists could remotely commandeer computers in China and use them to launch a US nuclear attack against Russia. Thus Russia would believe it was under attack from the US and the US would believe China was responsible. Further, emergency response communications could be disrupted, transportation could be shut down, and disinformation, such as misdirection, could be planted, thereby hindering the disaster relief effort and maximizing destruction. Disruptions in communication and the use of disinformation could also be used to provoke uninformed responses. For example, a nuclear strike between India and Pakistan could be coordinated with Distributed Denial of Service attacks against key networks, so they would have further difficulty in identifying what happened and be forced to respond quickly. Terrorists could also knock out communications between these states so they cannot discuss the situation. Alternatively, amidst the confusion of a traditional large-scale terrorist attack, claims of responsibility and declarations of war could be falsified in an attempt to instigate a hasty military response. These false claims could be posted directly on Presidential, military, and government websites. E-mails could also be sent to the media and foreign governments using the IP addresses and e-mail accounts of government officials. A sophisticated and all encompassing combination of traditional terrorism and cyber terrorism could be enough to launch nuclear weapons on its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

**B. Russian and US safeguards will fail**
**Martin 8** – (Matt Martin research analyst at Stanley foundation (nonpartisan think tank) 2008 p.[[http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?id=498]], BBQ)

It should be shocking that nearly 20 years after the Cold War our nuclear stance toward Russia is largely unchanged. While strictly speaking we no longer "target" Russia, we still have the previous, longstanding targeting plans plugged into the system, and it would only take a few minutes to bring those plans back online and make Russia a target again. Similarly, we still maintain an overall policy of "launch on warning" that initiates plans for a nuclear response strike in the event of a ballistic missile launch against the United States. “Launch on warning” was instigated by fears of a massive Soviet nuclear strike on US intercontinental ballistic missile sites and nuclear-capable bomber airfields. The short window of decision making under such circumstances means that a US president, once informed of indications of an incoming missile strike, would have as little as 15 minutes to decide whether or not to order a retaliatory nuclear strike. Once those nuclear missiles have been launched, there is no way to call them back or to disable them. Under the best of circumstances, this "launch on warning" approach—or "hair trigger" as it has come to be known—put the MAD in the theory of Mutually Assured Destruction. But in several key senses, these are no longer the best of circumstances, and a set of seemingly unconnected issues raises the specter that an accidental nuclear launch, perhaps followed by a "launch on warning" exchange, could still occur. First, Russian early-warning detection satellites have been in a steady state of decline since the breakup of the Soviet Union and, according to intelligence estimates, significant swaths of the Russian horizon lie dark due to insufficient coverage. This "blindness" could lead to hyper-awareness within the ranges of the remaining sensors. Combined with the even shorter decision time frame that delayed awareness would bring, this does not lend itself to thorough and conservative judgment. Second, while each side denies it, both states are engaged in activities that could be perceived as threatening to the other, perhaps increasing tension that would make a rapid reaction to a perceived threat more likely. For its part, the US continues to push for missile defense deployments on the western edge of Russia, with the stated intention of guarding against Iranian missiles. US efforts to develop new nuclear warheads and a new conventional "global strike" capability are also seen by Russia as degrading their own deterrence capabilities. For its part, Russian deployments of new nuclear-tipped missiles looks like a jab directed at the United States. Finally, three disturbing lapses in US nuclear weapons safety and security reduce confidence that the overall US nuclear weapons infrastructure remains well-managed and under strict command and control. Last August, a B-52 bomber was accidentally loaded with six nuclear warheads and flown from Minot Air Force Base in North Dakota to Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana. The bomber was supposed to transport nonnuclear cruise missiles. Then, in March 2008, Defense Department officials learned and subsequently acknowledged that they had 18 months prior mistakenly shipped four nuclear missile fuses to Taiwan. Finally, an internal Defense Department review commissioned by Secretary Gates to study security of the US nuclear weapons complex concluded that the US military cannot locate hundreds of sensitive nuclear missile components. "According to previously undisclosed details obtained by the Financial Times, the investigation also concluded that the Air Force could not account for many sensitive components previously included in its nuclear inventory. One official said the number of missing components was more than 1,000." While none of these incidents directly indicates an increased danger of accidental launch, they do indicate an overall erosion of system robustness making accidents more prone to occur. Again, due to the reality that most of the world’s nuclear weapons remain under the control of the US and Russia, the likelihood is that if a serious accidental incident occurred, it would be within this legacy construct. Common sense might indicate that better relations between the two countries would mean that less oversight is needed. But due to the history of the Cold War and the nature of the arsenals as discussed above, precisely the opposite is true, especially if the goal is to reduce the danger of an accidental nuclear launch. Surviving the Cold War without a nuclear exchange demanded intense and sustained efforts on a range of fronts from the political to the military, and as the global community strives to move beyond a Cold War mindset, it is clear that succeeding in this new world will as well. It is good that President Bush has found in Russian president Medvedev a smart colleague who understands the issues. The question is how will these two leaders apply their smarts and understanding in order to avoid an accidental nuclear war.

**Brilliant Pebbles solves accidental launch**
**Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 09**, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, Independent Working Group, 2009, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & The 21st century” [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]

The oranges are different. They would be space-based interceptors, defensive weapons, designed to save lives and property. They would be small and compact defensive weapons, in this case Brilliant Pebbles (BP), that would use not explosives but their own body weight to provide kinetic energy. This would occur when the device (pebble) first “sees” the hostile nuclear weapon as it is launched, and locks on to the ascending missile. The device, powered by a mini-rocket, then would streak down or out or up to strike the missile (like a large pebble) and knock it out of commission.Obviously, seconds count, because once the pebble “sees” the missile firing, it must respond instantly or it is too late and the hostile missile is well on its way to its target. The problem of accidental activation, however, would be virtually eliminated, because the autonomous system – like cruise control on an automobile – would be designed to be switched off as the BPs pass over friendly or non-hostile territory and turned on again over potentially hostile territory and programmed to do so automatically.38A reasonable comparison is the average home security system, which must be real-time automated, to activate its alarms the second an unwanted intruder shows up, so that law enforcement can respond effectively. Obviously, a prudent owner will turn off the alarm when moving about the premises or when expecting guests, but otherwise the owner wants the system armed to be able to respond quickly when needed.

**Accidental launch ensures retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour**
**Mintz 01** – Morton Mintz, Feburary 26, 2001, Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter, Two Minutes to Launch, The American Prospect. [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]], BBQ

The bitter disputes over national missile defense (NMD) have obscured a related but dramatically more urgent issue of national security: the 4,800 nuclear warheads--weapons with a combined destructive power nearly 100,000 times greater than the atomic bomb that leveled Hiroshima--currently on “hair-trigger” alert. Hair-trigger alert means this: The missiles carrying those warheads are armed and fueled at all times. Two thousand or so of these warheads are on the intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) targeted by Russia at the United States; 1,800 are on the ICBMs targeted by the United States at Russia; and approximately 1,000 are on the submarine-based missiles targeted by the two nations at each other. These missiles would launch on receipt of three computer-delivered messages. Launch crews--on duty every second of every day--are under orders to send the messages on receipt of a single computer-delivered command. In no more than two minutes, if all went according to plan, Russia or the United States could launch missiles at predetermined targets: Washington or New York; Moscow or St. Petersburg. The early-warning systems on which the launch crews rely would detect the other side’s missiles within tens of seconds, causing the intended--or accidental--enemy to mount retaliatory strikes. “Within a half-hour, there could be a nuclear war that would extinguish all of us,” explains Bruce Blair. “It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote.”

**1ac – Solvency**

**Contention Four is Solvency**

**SMD improves overall missile defense effectiveness**
**Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07** (Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]], Manchester)

The sequences of inquiry and application would thus demand looking at the feasibility of striking hostile missile launches in their boost phase through the development of space-based systems. While other elements involving theater and terminal (last resort) missile defenses already were being looked at by the Army (land-based) and the Navy (seabased), these by their nature were limited in both range and scope; so that – even by 1983 with massive nuclear proliferation going on – there was no coherent, overarching global system being considered to which sea and land assets could be linked, so as to develop a robust, layered defense against any launch point in the world. Conceptually, these linkages can be described in terms of a logic pyramid. The base of the pyramid is comprised of space-based systems, because they are global and, thus, can do the most; they can see farther and strike farther. Seabased systems are next best, because they are flexible for surface deployment (theoretically over two-thirds of the Earth) and, therefore, superb for sophisticated regional operations. Finally, at top of the pyramid – supported by space- and sea-based capabilities to maximize their effectiveness – are the fixed and vectored land-based terminal defenses systems. Each component (space, sea, land) is important in its own way, but without space at the base, the other systems are limited in what they can do. In this pyramid, there is no “best” any more than an aircraft carrier is “best” over a cruiser, which is “better” than a destroyer. All are equally important, but only in terms of their particular functions. When they act together, they can provide a formidable defense. When they are forced to act alone, they can be overwhelmed. Space allows them to act together.

**Brilliant pebbles best solution – feasible and limits international backlash**
**Denny 10** (Bart Denny, April 29 2010, has an Associate's Degree in Nuclear Technology, a Bachelor's Degree in Economics and Political Science, and a Master of Science in Space Studies, and Master of Arts in National Security Studies, and a retired naval officer “Time to revisit space-based missile defense”, [[http://www.bartdenny.com/time-for-space-based.html]])
Back to the Future: A Practical Solution President Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative Organization (SDIO) imagined the capability to defeat a massive Soviet attack, with space-based elements forming a core element of the system. While the administration of the elder President Bush scaled the system down, the Global Protection Against Limited Strikes (GPALS) system would have been able to intercept ballistic missiles in the ballistic phase of flight using small space-based interceptors known as "Brilliant Pebbles." Much of GPALS, notably minus the space-based interceptors, evolved into today's BMDS. In fact, it is striking how much the BMDS looks like GPALS, given the 20 years since the first Bush Administration rolled out the concept. As with the current BMDS, the idea behind GPALS was not to overcome a massive Soviet strike, but instead to defeat an "accidental launch" or an attack from a rogue state. Only space-based missile defenses can provide the coverage and on-station time required of a practical boost phase interceptor. Space-based lasers could provide such a defense, but only chemically fuelled lasers have the power to do so effectively. However, a chemical-laser satellite would be an enormous spacecraft, capable of only a few shots without refueling (look at the ABL, a modified Boeing 747). Given the pluses of space-based defenses and the minuses of lasers, the U.S. should revisit Brilliant Pebbles or similar space-based missile defense concepts. Just what was Brilliant Pebbles? Essentially, the concept envisioned a system of low-orbiting interceptors, each "Pebble" a kill vehicle contained in a spacecraft that would provide electrical power, communications, and an infrared-sensor. These small vehicles (described as a "watermelon in a jacket"), would have had a total spacecraft and kill vehicle mass of around 220 pounds. GPALS envisioned a satellite constellation of around 750 to 1,000 Pebbles, capable of engaging up to 200 targets. Brilliant Pebbles could engage both theater and strategic missiles not only in the boost phase, but in the mid-course and terminal phases as well. Ambassador Henry F. Cooper, former SDIO chief, says that when the Clinton Administration cancelled Brilliant Pebbles in 1994, the system was, in fact, the most mature of any missile defense concept. In fact, many of the technologies for Pebbles have been demonstrated in space (such as in the Clementine moon mission) and utilized in current missile defense systems. The Motorola Iridium communications satellites have further proved Brilliant Pebbles' concept of a large constellation of networked satellites designed to operate as an integrated system. In fact, no Brilliant Pebbles technology remained untested at the end of 1994, and many have since been refined. If the goal is to defend against the ballistic missile threat posed by such states as Iran or North Korea, a substantially downsized Pebbles constellation could provide a viable boost-phase defense. A 2004 Congressional Budget Office (CBO) study suggested that as few as 70 satellites, orbiting in a belt from 45 degrees north latitude to 45 degrees south latitude, could provide a two-shot capability against liquid-fuelled ballistic missiles. (Liquid-fuelled missiles ascend more slowly than solid rocket-propelled missiles, requiring more interceptors to defend against them, as interceptors would have to be closer to their targets). Less than ten light-lift launch vehicles such as the Minotaur or Falcon 1 could orbit such a constellation. Studies suggest that the full system of 1,000 Pebbles--with a replacement for each Pebble over 20 years--could cost under $19 billion in 2008 dollars. Although the relationship is not linear, a system of perhaps 200 Pebbles would be significantly cheaper. In considering the number of Pebbles to place in the constellation, planners should also consider that the revived Brilliant Pebbles would operate as part of an integrated, layered defense in conjunction with existing and planned sea and land-based systems, not as their replacement. Blunting the Critics The hurdles to placing a revived Brilliant Pebbles-like system in orbit are predominantly political, not technical, in nature. Originally, space-based missile defenses faced stiff opposition because of their prohibition by the Antiballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty of 1972. The U.S., of course, withdrew from the ABM Treaty in 2002, but there remains continued unfriendliness, in the U.S. and abroad, to deploying weapons in space. Some mistakenly claim that such weapons are a violation of the Outer Space Treaty of 1967, although that treaty actually prohibits placing weapons of mass destruction, in space, not weapons en bloc. From a practical standpoint, weapons have already travelled into space. The then-Soviet Union, the U.S., and China have all demonstrated anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons, and admittedly, even the current surface-based U.S. BMDS provides a displayed dual-use--if not originally purposed--capability as an ASAT weapon. Boost and mid-course missile defenses should have little trouble in downing space launches, as well. The potential for the wide use of missile defenses as a space denial platform rightly puts many people, in many nations, ill at ease. The Russians know the U.S. BMDS presents little danger to their strategic arsenal and that a small constellation of space-based interceptors would not either. Still, the potential for the U.S. BMDS to expand into one that can defeat Russian strategic weapons--even as the Russians and the U.S. draw down their nuclear arsenals--while remote, nonetheless exists. The U.S. could field space-based missile defenses while assuaging the concerns of Russia, and others. Ideally, a multinational coalition, of which Russia would be part, might build and operate the system, sharing the costs and enjoying the protection. The U.S. should work to overcome the legal and political obstacles to such a multinational system, not the least of which is the concern surrounding technology transfer. The U.S. should entreat Russia to become a fully integrated partner in the BMDS, just as have nations such as Japan. However, the U.S. must be prepared to go it alone on space-based missile defenses. Even then, the U.S. should operate the system transparently, perhaps with the permanent presence of multinational (particularly Russian and perhaps even Chinese) observers in the system's operations center. The U.S. could further show good faith by reducing its nuclear arsenal below even the thresholds set in the new START treaty, while still maintaining a viable nuclear deterrent for as long as other nations have such weapons. The cost savings achieved by reducing the U.S. nuclear deterrent to the minimum credible level might even offset the expenditures required to field space-based missile defenses, and to enhance surface-based interceptors, as well. Conclusion Space-based missile defenses represent no threat to the strategic arsenals of Russia or other major nuclear weapons states. Surface and, if built, space-based missile defenses will not be destabilizing factors in the relationship between nuclear-armed states, if the U.S. constructively engages the international community as to their purpose and convincingly shows their benefit to all who seek the protection of these systems. Rather, missile defenses will be a key factor--along with diplomacy, counter-proliferation and non-proliferation activities, and verifiable disarmament--in ushering in a world without nuclear weapons. A space-based interceptor system, similar in concept to Brilliant Pebbles, would at last provide a viable boost-phase defense, greatly enhancing the layered defense against ballistic missiles. For all of the protection they could provide, missile defenses alone do not represent a panacea in eliminating the nuclear threat. The U.S. and its partners in peace must continue actions designed to secure nuclear and fissile materials and prevent their use by rogue states and non-state actors in delivery systems other than missiles (e.g. the "suitcase nuke"), and must continue the full range of arms control activities designed to put the nuclear genie fully back in the bottle. Still, the U.S. and its friends would be foolish to forgo the full range of options available to defend themselves while waiting for that great day to arrive.

**No tech barriers to Brilliant Pebbles – solves space BMD and lockout**
**Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07** (Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]], Manchester)
A space-based KEI is designed to hit a ballistic missile in its boost phase, when the warhead(s) has not yet separated from the missile and is most vulnerable, as well as in the midcourseand high-terminal phases. Kinetic kill vehicles would be placed in low-earth orbit, where they would remain until a hostile missile launch was detected. For intercepts in the boost or terminal phases, a kinetic kill vehicle would accelerate out of orbit toward the missile which would be destroyed by direct impact. Midcourse intercepts would occur in space. Over a decade ago, the United States had developed technology for light-weight propulsion units, sensors, computers, and other components of an advanced kill vehicle. This concept, Brilliant Pebbles, consisted of a constellation of about 1000 satellites that combined its own early-warning and tracking capability with high maneuverability to engage attacking ballistic missiles in all phases of their flight trajectory. Each pebble was designed to identify the nature of the attack, which might include up to 200 ballistic missiles; and since it knew its own location and that of all other pebbles, each could calculate an optimum attack strategy from its own perspective and execute an intercept maneuver, while simultaneously informing the other pebbles of its action. This operational concept enabled a robustly viable, testable, operational capability that survived numerous scientific and engineering peer reviews in the 1989-90 time period, including by some groups that were hostile to the idea of missile defense in general, and space-based defenses But the technology was clearly established, supporting the Pentagon’s approved acquisition plan that each of the pebbles would operate autonomously because each carried the equivalent of a Cray-1 computer and could do its own calculations for trajectory and targeting analysis. Each also had its own navigation sensors, allowing it to determine its location and the location of its neighbors – as well as to detect and track the target ballistic missiles and calculate a good approximation of what its neighbors saw.12 These pebbles would act as sensor platforms until all or part of the constellation was authorized to intercept hostile missiles. In fact, their infrared sensors provided the warning and tracking capability needed to alert the Brilliant Pebbles constellation enabling it to intercept ballistic missiles in the boost and subsequent phases of flight. The constellation would provide a redundant, and for some applications, superior capability than the geosynchronous Defense Support Program satellites used since the early 1970s as a key element of the U.S. Early Warning and Tactical Assessment system. Their small size, meanwhile, made them difficult to target, while their relatively low cost made them easy to replace. The autonomy of Brilliant Pebbles in detecting launch and undertaking interception complicated the use of countermeasures against their command and control. And because of the number of Brilliant Pebbles deployed in space, these defenses would have multiple opportunities for interception, thus increasing their chances of a successful intercept in either the boost or midcourse phases, or even high in the earth’s atmosphere during reentry in the terminal phase. These characteristics stand in contrast to the current GMD interceptors which, in the limited numbers presently planned, may not provide more than one independent intercept opportunity. Although there has been no formal program to develop the key technologies further, advances in the commercial, civil and other defense sectors over the past decade will now permit even lighter mass, lower cost, and higher performance than would have been achieved by the 1990-era Brilliant Pebbles technology base. Thus, lighter weight and smarter components can now empower a Brilliant Pebbles interceptor with greater acceleration/velocity making possible boost-phase intercept of even short- and medium-range ballistic missiles. If the necessary investments are made to upgrade Brilliant Pebbles- type technology for the twenty-first century, boost-phase intercept from space will also be feasible against high acceleration ICBMs that would have exceeded the capabilities of the 1990 Brilliant Pebbles.13 And as noted above, the same sensor and kill-vehicle technology can be used for ground- and sea-based interceptors – notably on the VLS-compatible, high-velocity Navy SM-3 interceptor. Reviving and building on the Brilliant Pebbles concept and related technologies is essential for the deployment of effective SBIs, as well as improved interceptors for use in other basing modes, especially at sea. To move forward the United States must identify and exploit programs that were under development more than a decade ago. In other words, we should “go back to the future” as the point of departure for the increasingly robust missile defense that will be needed beyond what was initially planned for deployment in 2004-2005. Our engineers did it before, and can do it again to defeat the growing ballistic missile threat. One feasible option for testing and initial deployment of a revived space-based interceptor system based on Brilliant Pebbles would be to deploy, say, 40 to 120 interceptors for a space-system test bed analogous to the ground- and sea-based test beds. After demonstrating feasibility by testing against missiles of all ranges in all possible phases of their flight, this test bed would have a limited capability and could be expanded to become a fully capable defensive constellation. Based on the fully approved Defense Acquisition Board plan from 1991, an SBI system with as many as 1000 Brilliant Pebbles could be developed, tested, deployed and operated for twenty years with a low-to-moderate risk, event-driven acquisition program for $11 billion in 1990 dollars, or $16 billion when inflated to 2005 dollars.

**SMD solves deterrence – and even if it doesn’t it contains the consequences**
**Bowen 10**. (Gregory S., Colonel for the US Army National Guard and currently Commander of the 100th Missile Defense Brigade and a distinguished military graduate. “Ballistic Missile Defense and Deterrence: Not Mutually Exclusive.” 12/5/10.[[http://www.dtic.mil.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA526100&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]

While critics of missile defense systems make valid arguments, so do the proponents. They argue that missile defense systems strengthen deterrence by introducing uncertainty into the calculus of an adversary by defeating the advantage gained by launching a first strike with ballistic missiles. They can limit the damage done if deterrence fails and there is a missile attack on the United States. Missile defenses are advantageous in a regional situation, adding to extended deterrence. This is especially relevant given the proliferation of ballistic missile technology as well as the robust testing program demonstrated by countries such as Iran and North Korea. The non-rational actor or rogue state threat also leads to an advantage, as missile defenses can provide a hedge against the failure of deterrence. And lastly, missile defenses provide U.S. leadership with additional flexibility. They can choose to defend and then apply all elements of U.S. national power against the adversary vice simply responding with an immediate retaliatory attack. As with the opponent arguments, many of the proponent positions cannot be conclusively proven with evidence. There is no way to know for certain if a country did or did not do something solely because the U.S. deployed ballistic missile defenses.

**Arms control or codes of conduct fails – challengers will outpace us and undermine satellite security**
**Kueter, 07** - is president of the George C. Marshall Institute, a nonprofit think tank dediicated to science and technology in public policy (Jeff, New Atlantis, “China's Space Ambitions -- And Ours,” Spring, lexis)

Setting aside such semantic quibbling, the real challenge now facing the United States is how best to deter, deny, and dissuade the Chinese, and other emerging space powers, from hostile actions in space. One approach would involve diplomacy and international discussions. For some time, arms-control advocates have been pushing for agreements to ban weapons in space. More recently, in light of the changed circumstances brought on by China's tests, the focus has shifted to securing "codes of conduct" and devising "rules of the road" to regulate how nation-states behave in space. Sympathetically interpreting China's recent tests as an understandable reaction to U.S. policies, arms-control advocates have characterized American actions in space as dangerous and provocative, and have condemned the United States for refusing to enter into international negotiations. Only a treaty, they argue, can restrain the Americans' aggressive tendencies. As one arms-control advocate told the Washington Post, the Chinese were responding to U.S. space policies and sending a signal to the Pentagon: "We can play this game, too, and we can play it dirtier than you." Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts, told the Post that the United States must initiate "an international agreement to ban the development, testing, and deployment of space weapons and anti-satellite systems." This attitude--blaming America for other countries' actions and demanding that the United States preemptively disarm itself--is reminiscent of the old Cold War debates over nuclear weapons. Also strikingly familiar to students of the Cold War is Beijing's hypocritical hand-wringing over the specter of an arms race in, and the weaponization of, outer space. As Michael Pillsbury has pointed out, "While China has publicly assumed a leadership position in international activities to ban space weapons, there is an active group within China not only advocating the weaponization of space but also putting forth specific proposals for implementation of a Chinese space-based weapons program." Even while the PLA was successfully executing at least two anti-satellite tests, the Chinese diplomatic corps was raging against the supposed weaponization of space by the United States. At a U.N. conference on space in 2006, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official, Tang Guoqiang, complained about actions in space that could "cause serious consequences": "The policy of a certain country [i.e., the United States] to test, deploy and use weapons and weapon systems in outer space [is] disconcerting. Outer space is the common heritage of mankind and [the] weaponization of outer space is bound to trigger off [an] arms race in outer space, thus rendering outer space a new arena for military confrontation." Even after the January 2007 ASAT test, a Chinese Foreign Ministry official insisted that countries "opposed to the weaponization of space" should "join hands to realize this goal." Existing treaties allow actions to protect and defend national interests in space. Article IV of the Outer Space Treaty forbids signatories (including the United States and China) from placing nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction in orbit or on the Moon, and prohibits the testing of weapons, conduct of maneuvers, or construction of fortifications on the Moon and other celestial bodies. Since October 1967, when the treaty went into force, nearly every U.S. president has interpreted its requirements in such a way as to explicitly allow the development, operation, and maintenance of the space-control capabilities needed to ensure freedom of action in space and to deny such freedom of action to adversaries. During successive administrations of both political parties, the National Security Council has interpreted the treaty as not barring the deployment of space-based missile defenses or other systems to perform space-control missions. Work to draft new treaties continues apace. China and Russia have been spearheading international efforts to construct a framework to govern space. The Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space (PAROS) process at the U.N. Conference on Disarmament calls for formal negotiations to prohibit the placement of weapons in orbit or on celestial bodies. But whatever shreds of credibility this international process had were destroyed by the recent Chinese tests. Another diplomatic tack contemplated by those opposed to "weaponizing space" is the adoption of multilateral codes of conduct. To a certain extent, such norms will develop organically on their own, as the growing interdependence between economic and security interests forces government and commercial satellite operators to cooperate, and as Washington increasingly coordinates its space activities with military and civil space authorities in allied and friendly nations. Over time, new norms for shared space situational awareness, debris mitigation, and orbital traffic management may emerge among responsible space-faring nations. But such norms make no sense if the parties have not first built up trust. And if such norms are externally imposed, they will be nothing more than unverifiable arms control agreements in camouflage. Absent the ability to ascertain or enforce compliance, a code-of-conduct rule regime will be weak and, more likely than not, ineffectual. A rules system for space between potential adversaries that relies on voluntary compliance and lacks viable punitive measures will be a hollow one. (Nor, for that matter, would an international treaty "banning" anti-satellite testing be enforceable or verifiable; the ignominious record of enforcing and verifying treaties prohibiting activities on Earth should be proof enough of that.) The chief failing of the diplomatic approach to dealing with the new reality of space weapons is that it is blind to the reason a potential adversary like China would seek access to space in the first place--namely, the desire to be able to inflict a crippling blow against U.S. military and economic might by decapitating its surveillance and communications abilities. Those pushing for a new treaty or a code of conduct have yet to explain why China would abandon capabilities that threaten the "soft underbelly" of American military power. The Chinese regime clearly aspires to develop such capabilities; there is little reason to believe it would negotiate them away. The United States should resist calls for such futile diplomatic efforts.