[[toc]]
=Note!= 

If you have any questions of need more cites email flora5796@gmail.com


=Affirmative- Solar Roadways (most updated)= 
===Plan:=== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United State federal government should substantially increase Solar Roadway system investment in the United States. We’ll clarify.</span>**</span>

===<span class="Underline">Advantage 1: Power Grid</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">Two Internal Links to collapse:</span>

<span class="Underline">First: Hacks and Attacks</span>

<span class="Underline">Power grid vulnerable to terrorist attack now</span>
<span class="Underline">Serrano 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 1.5;">(Richard A., staff writer for the Washington bureau, "U.S. power grid a terrorist target", Feb 11 2011, </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">[[http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2011/feb/11/us-power-grid-a-terrorist-target/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 1.5;">. Noparstak)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 1.5;">Washington- a major cyber attack somewhere.......probably all we should say about that in public.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The risk is high. Intel hacks have happened before.</span>**</span>



<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Gorman 9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Siobhan, writer for the Wall Street Journal, "Electricity Grid in U.S. Penetrated By Spies", April 8 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123914805204099085.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Washington- Cyberspies have penetrated.....U.S. information infrastructure</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hackings risk meltdowns</span>**</span>



<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">GEI 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Galving Electricity Initiative, founded by CEO Robert Galvin, pushing for electric grid reform for a secure, sustainable, energy future, "The Electric Power System Is Insecure", </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://galvinpower.org/resources/library/fact-sheets-faqs/electric-power-system-insecure]]</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">There is evidence that terrorist organizations .........</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">operational independent of the failure of main power lines.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Additionally, collapse hurts military forces</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Snider 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Annie, E&E reporter, "Pentagon still can't define 'energy security', much less achieve it", Jan 16 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.eenews.net/public/Greenwire/2012/01/16/1]]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hurricane __Katrina humbled ...........__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">technology industries.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Projections key to prevent conflict</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Robert </span>**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 7/19/20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">07</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> “End of Dreams, Return of History”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">This is a good thing.......</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">draw the United States back in again.</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2) Solar Flares</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Flares risk collapsing the grid;</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> larger storms coming</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Khan 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Amina, staff writer for the Los Angeles Times, interview with Mike Hapgood, a space weather scientist at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory near Oxford, England, "How a solar flare could send us back to the Stone Age", May 9 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2012/0509/How-a-solar-flare-could-send-us-back-to-the-Stone-Age]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Q: Is that the biggest geomagnetic........</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">and it's entertaining.</span>





<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">1 in 8 risk of a storm causing a collapse</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Huffington Post 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Solar Flare Big Enough To Cause Catastrophe On Earth Called Surprisingly Likely, March 1 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/01/solar-flare-big-enough-to-disrupt_n_1313136.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">An aurora borealis.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">had risen on a cloudy day."</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The risk is high. Current cycles can produce flares large enough for collapse</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wall 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Mike, writer for Space.com, Monster sunspot threatens to unleash powerful solar flares, May 8 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2012/05/08/monster-sunspot-threatens-to-unleash-powerful-solar-flares/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">An enormous sunspot group.....will peak in 2013.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Collapse results in extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">International Business Times 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">What happens when there's no electricity?.....the total population</span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Advantage 2: Emissions and Oil</span>=== 



**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Transportation and Energy sectors are the top two emitters</span>**

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Jehanno 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Aurélie, works at Deutsche Bahn Environment Centre, for University of Chicago, High Speed and Sustainable Development Departments, “High Speed Rail & Sustainability”, November 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://uic.org/IMG/pdf/hsr_sustainability_main_study_final.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, CJD)</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">4.1.1 Energy consumption and GHG emissions......energy use per <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">passenger</span> km</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">Two Internal Links:</span>

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1) CARS:</span>**

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Socolow et al 4</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Robert, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University. His current research focuses on global carbon management and fossil-carbon sequestration, Roberta Hotinski, ecoscientist turned science communicator who has worked at U.S. News & World Report, the National Science Foundation, and most recently Princeton University. As the Information Officer for Princeton's Carbon Mitigation Initiative, Dr. Hotinski helped to develop the "stabilization wedge", Jefferey B. Greenblatt, Research Staff MemberPrinceton Environmental Institute, Stephen Pacala, Director, Princeton Environmental Institute Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Solving The Climate Problem, December 2004, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://cmi.princeton.edu/wedges/pdfs/climate_problem.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak)</span>



For example......per gallon today.


<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2) MILITARY EMISSIONS:</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hynes 11</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">H Patricia, ofessor of Environmental Health at Boston University School of Public Health where she is Director of the Urban Environmental Health Initiative and works on issues of urban environmental health, environmental justice and feminism, "The Military Assault on Global Climate", Sep 8 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://truth-out.org/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=3181:the-military-assault-on-global-climate]]</span>


Correspondingly.......fuel usage date

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan solves warming.</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Brusaw 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Scott, an electrical engineer with over 20 years of industry experience, including Director of Research and Development at a manufacturing facility in Ohio, and a voting member of NEMA, “Solar Roadways: A Real Solution”, http://www.solarroadways.com/military.shtml. Noparstak)</span>

Imagine being able to put.......deployed elsewhere.


<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Warming is human induced. Only mitigation can solve</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Hansen</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies Director, 8-3-</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[James E., "Climate change is here — and worse than we thought," http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/climate-change-is-here--and-worse-than-we-thought/2012/08/03/6ae604c2-dd90-11e1-8e43-4a3c4375504a_story.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">When I testified......the future is now. and it is hot.</span>



<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ERRAFF ,negative feedback can’t solve.</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Aurelie</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and Vlad, Lund University, 1-8-2012</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Bachy and Privulescu, "Terrestrial and marine carbon uptake in the future: can we extrapolate today's situation?," http://www.nateko.lu.se/courses/ngen03/projects%202011/Bachy%20Pirvulescu.pdf]</span>
Moreover CO2 fertilization.....21st century.


<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Warming results in extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Roberts</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Grist Staff Writer, 7-9-</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[David, "Strategies for a Changing Planet: Awareness", http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2012-06/climate-change-here-its-time-get-ready]</span>

There is no longer any question........occupied land uninhabitable


<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Oil dependency uniquely ensures primacy collapse</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Klarevas</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, New York University Center for Global Affairs Professor, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Louis, "Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony," http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html, accessed: 9-2-12]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As national leaders from around the world....strategy of greengemony</span>

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Primacy prevents conflicts</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Owen 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (John – professor of politics at the University of Virginia, Don’t Discount Hegemony, p. www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The would be somewhat puzzling........democracy remains strong</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Primacy mitigates all global conflicts)</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">*</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Proponents of retrenchment.........economic prosperity it provides.</span>


<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan solves oil dependence.</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Brusaw 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Scott, an electrical engineer with over 20 years of industry experience, including Director of Research and Development at a manufacturing facility in Ohio, and a voting member of NEMA, “Solar Roadways: A Real Solution”, http://www.solarroadways.com/vehicles.shtml. Noparstak)</span>

Driving is part of the american way of life.........have thought imaginable

<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Solar Roadways solves the key barrier</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Brusaw 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Scott, an electrical engineer with over 20 years of industry experience, including Director of Research and Development at a manufacturing facility in Ohio, and a voting member of NEMA, “Solar Roadways: A Real Solution”, http://www.solarroadways.com/vehicles.shtml. Noparstak)</span>


Since the Solar Roadway.........dependency upon fossil fuels


===Solvency=== 

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">DOE already funded the project’s upstart;</span>**
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Covert 9</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Adrian, writer for for POPSCI, "Solar Panels Built Into Roads Could Be the Future of Energy", Aug 27 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2009-08/solar-panels-built-roads-could-be-future-energy/]]</span>

The Department of Energy just gave......excited, right?


**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The tech is here</span>**
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">McKendrick 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Joe, an independent analyst who tracks the impact of information technology on management and markets. He is the author of the SOA Manifesto and has written for Forbes, ZDNet and Database Trends & Applications, "Pave this: replace asphalt on roads with solar panels, power the nation", Aug 6 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.smartplanet.com/blog/business-brains/pave-this-replace-asphalt-on-roads-with-solar-panels-power-the-nation/9178]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. Noparstak)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Here's an idea that could provide..........shatterproof and glareproof</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Only federal investment solves</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Moersdorf 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Gerry, employed at ACScout, company that designs AC monitoring devices for special applications, "Measuring the Quality and Reliability of Electric Service", http://www.acscout.com/servlet/Page?template=reliabilityofelectricserviceIt isn’t easy.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">State regulatory bodies set distribution.........allowable under this rule.</span>




=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Negative</span>= 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We run pretty much the same thing as our other team:</span>



http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2012-2013+-+Houston+County+%28GA%29+-+Cameron+Henderson+%26+Flora+Patel



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]