[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

***Warming Advantage***
Contention One is Warming
Scientific consensus confirms that positive feedback cycles lock in warming now – only the plan solves
Solomon et al ‘10
(Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences … <span style="font-size: 5pt;">focuses on emissions over a century.</span>


Warming is real and will only get worse with positive feedback loops – this is really bad
Kaku '11
(Dr. Michio Kaku, professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York; cofounder of string field theory;and the bestselling author of several widely acclaimed science books, "Physics of the Future", 2011, www.drskoot.com/public/Public Files/Physics/Michio Kaku-Physics_of_the_Future/Physics of the Future - How Science Will Shape Human Destiny and Our Daily Lives by the Year 2100.pdf//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By midcentury, the full impact … **a runaway cycle of global warming.** </span>__
Positive feedback cycles cause runaway warming and extinction
Brandenberg ‘99
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Brandenberg, Physicist (Ph.D.) </span>and Paxson a science writer<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> ’99 – </span>John and Monica, Dead Mars Dying Earth p. 232-3
<span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ozone hole expands</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span><span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">driven … **perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.** </span>__</span> 
Deniers are paid off and avoid peer review – our authors are backed by scientific data
Lewandowsky and Ashley '11
(Stephan Lewandowsky, Australian Professional Fellow, Cognitive Science Laboratories at the University of Western Australia, Michael Ashley, Professor of Astrophysics at University of New South Wales, "The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change", 6/24/11, theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558//GH-aspopmer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">But despite these complexities, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">some … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">alleged “vested interests” of scientists. </span>
Plan solves warming – ionization keeps particulates in the air to block out sunlight and counteract the greenhouse effect
Castle ’03
(Dr. R. Michael Castle, a Polymer Chemist and an Environmental Professional whom holds a National Certification for Environmental Risk Assessment, “The Methodic Demise of Natural Earth, An Environmental Impact Overview”, 9/28/03, http://www.bariumblues.com/methodic_demise_of_natural_earth.htm//GH-aspomer
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Dr. Edward </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Teller</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> wrote a white … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Modification and Geo-Engineering</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">practices.</span>__
***Nuclear Fallout Advantage***
Contention Two is Fallout
Nuclear war inevitable:
A) Asteroids
Worden ‘02
[ Brigadier General Simon P. Worden, Deputy Director for Operations, United States Strategic Command, Hearing Statement: "The Threat of Near-Earth Asteroids", Brig. Gen. Simon Worden, United States Strategic Command, Oct 3, 2002, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=6723]

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Two and a half months ago, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">be just what they are. </span>__
B) Poverty, resource scarcity, proliferation, diminishing plutionium
Caldwell 03
(Ph.d. former director of research and development at the US Army Electronic Proving Ground’s Electromagnetic Environmental Test Facility) (Joseph George Caldwell, PhD, “The End of the World, and the New World Order: The Likelihood of Global Nuclear War” [[@http://www.foundation.bw/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm]])
***ONLY READ GREEN
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">would appear that global … **are all in abundant supply.**</span>__
Weather modification is critical to sustaining air superiority and controlling the effects of nuclear war
Eastlund and Jenkins 5
(Bernard J. , physicist who received his B.S. in physics from MIT and his Ph.D. in physics from Columbia University. He led a team of scientists and engineers working for Advanced Power Technologies, Inc, and Lyle M., retired from NASA after 38 years of systems engineering activity. Major projects included Apollo and Space Shuttle, design engineer on the Atlas ICBM and the Centaur, first liquid hydrogen upper stage, Eastlund Scientific Enterprises, Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite-Issues Dealing with Weather Modification, page @ http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel5/11012/34697/01656145.pdf?tp=&isnumber=34697&arnumber=1656145//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Over the course of the … downdrafts that drive tornado formation. </span>__

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian nuclear meltdown is inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shields 2007, </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rachel Shields, 7-10-2007, “ Dirty timebomb' ticking in Russian nuclear dump threatens Europe”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/world-news/dirty-timebomb-ticking-in-russian-nuclear-dump-threatens-europe-14465525.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 20,000 discarded uranium fuel rods … beyond the threat to life</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radiation will permeate the globe</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caldicott 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Helen Caldicott, being cited by Planet Green. Com. 6-05-2009, “Low Level Radioactive Waste: LLRW”. Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, Physician, and recognized as one of the most influential women in the 21st century</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://planetgreen.discovery.com/tech-transport/green-glossary-radioactive-waste.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">For radioactive waste to … plague humanity has ever experienced."</span>__
US Weather mod key to steering dangerous radiation, controlling the effects of a nuclear war, and maintaining American stability
Webre '11
(Alfred Lambremont Webre, Seattle Exopolitics Examiner, " Scientist: U.S., Canada, Mexico, Hawaii targeted in nuclear war from Japan", 3/28/11, www.examiner.com/exopolitics-in-seattle/scientist-u-s-canada-mexico-hawaii-targeted-nuclear-war-from-japan//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Independent scientist Leuren Moret in … </span>


***Cruise Missiles Good***
Contention Three – Cruise Missiles
Al Qaeda has the ability and will attack our food supplies – even a small attack will spread and collapse the industry and the economy
Olson '12
(Dean Olson, M.A., "Agroterrorism - Threats to America's Economy and Food Supply", February 2-12, www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications/law-enforcement-bulletin/february-2012/agroterrorism//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States enjoys a safe, … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">will lead to severe shortages. </span>
Terrorists will use cruise missiles to transport chemical and biological weapons – a more robust defense is crucial
Kueter and Kier 7 (Jeff, President, The George C. Marshall Institute, and David, , Vice President, Lockheed Martin Corporation , July 9, The Cruise Missile Challenge, Marshall Institute, page @ http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/557.pdf, )
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">So what is a cruise missile? … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it. </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Thank you for your time.</span>
Bioweapons cause extinction
Ochs 2k2
(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Of all the weapons of … the highest of all crimes.</span>
And, New Gene Manipulation Strategies Increases Risk And Threat Of Bioweapons – Prefer The Newest Evidence
MSNBC 12/7
(“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech,” pg online @ [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">GENEVA — </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New gene assembly technology</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">to monitor every lab's activities.</span>
And, it outweighs other risks

Matheny 7 - MPH from Johns Hopkins, PhD Candidate @ Johns Hopkins
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, where his work focuses on technology forecasting and risk assessment - particularly of global catastrophic risks and existential risks.[1] He previously worked for the World Bank, the Center for Biosecurity, the Center for Global Development, and on national security projects for the US government. He is a Sommer Scholar and PhD candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University. He holds an MPH from Johns Hopkins, an MBA from Duke University, and a BA from the University of Chicago, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">current </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">extinction risks, the … </span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">to be worth the risks.</span>
Agroterrorism destroys genetic diversity
Dudley ‘02
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">JP Dudley</span>, Institute of Arctic Biology – U Alaska Fairbanks, and M.H. Wolford, Not Kurt, Chair – Office International des Epizooties Working Group on Wildlife Diseases, Portugal, Bioweapons, Bioterrorism, and Biodiversity, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">2002</span>, http://www.oie.int/eng/publicat/rt/2....%20DUDLEY.pdf
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Military and </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">terrorist applications of … deliberate or accidental bioweapon releases.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fowler ‘90</span>
Cary <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Fowler and</span> Pat <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Mooney</span>, Rural Advancement Fund International, Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity, 19<span style="font-size: 5pt;">90</span>, p. ix

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> While many may ponder … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Africa, Latin America and Asia.</span>
The Plan stabilizes the ionosphere allowing for detection of cruise missiles
Mercer et al ‘96
(“Weather as a Force Multiplier: Owning the Weather in 2025”, Col Tamzy J. House, Lt Col James B. Near, Jr., LTC William B. Shields (USA), Maj, Ronald J. Celentano, Maj David M. Husband, Maj Ann E. Mercer, Maj James E. Pugh, All are in Air Force, 1996, pdf//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ionospheric mirrors for pinpoint communication … source of enemy electromagnetic transmissions. </span>
We can also blow them up
Popular Science '96
("HAARP Knock, Knock, Knockingon Heaven's Door", Spring 1996, arcticcircle.uconn.edu/VirtualClassroom/HAARP/acf.html//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A new research installation is … in Alaska's sub-Arctic taiga.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Magnitude outweighs – there is a categorical difference between existential and non-existential threats</span>
<span class="cite">Matheny ‘7</span>
(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)
<span class="underline0">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if extinction events are … humanity and those that threaten 100%.</span>__</span>
The United States federal government should substantially increase development of its space-based weather modification capabilities.
***Solvency Post Harvard***
Contetion Four - Solvency
Plan solves weather modification
Theroux '99
(Michael Theroux, Director of the Borderland Sciences Research Foundation, "Space Based Weather Control:The 'Thunderstorm Solar Power Satellite'", 1999, www.borderlands.com/spacewea.htm//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">HAARP</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, as we have stated, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Technology: Project HAARP and Beyond.</span>
Weather mod is possible – tests prove
Russia Today '10
(5/4/10, real-agenda.com/2010/06/01/laser-weapons-and-weather-modification-today//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A powerful laser can be … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">report online in Nature Photonics.</span>
The ground based HAARP program triggers all disad links
Chossudovsky '07
(Michel Chossudovsky, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa, The Ecologist, "Weather Warfare: Beware the US military’s experiments with climatic warfare", 12/7/07, www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=7561//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Rarely acknowledged in the debate … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">been subjected to routine testing. </span>__


But it doesn’t solve our aff
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The HAARP Scientists ‘01 </span>
(March 14, http://www.haarp.alaska.edu/haarp/ion4.html, the scientists who work on HAARP writing about it on the HAARP website, “What Are the Effects of HAARP on the Ionosphere?”)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">During active ionospheric research, a small, … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">level required for that process</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


Weather mod and space weaponization inevitable
India Daily '05
("Weather manipulation warfare from outerspace", 8/20/05, www.greatdreams.com/weather/weather_manipulation.htm//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weather manipulation warfare is taking a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and creation of nuclear shields. </span>
US development is key to counter other countries’ capabilities
David '05
(Leonard David, senior space writer, "U.S. Military Wants to Own the Weather", 10/31/05, www.space.com/1725-military-weather.html
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The one-two hurricane punch … large as hurricanes," Eastlund explained.</span>
Secret governmental weather mod exists now
Ananda '10
(Rady Anadnda, QUALS, 7/30/10, "Atmospheric Geoengineering: Weather Manipulation, Contrails and Chemtrails”, www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=20369//GH-aspomer)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The only conspiracy surrounding geoengineering … </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nothing new. We know about it.” </span>__
Our beams are 100% effective
Shinohara ‘05
(N., PhD in engineering, Associate Professor Research Institute for Sustainable Humanosphere (RISH) , Kyoto University Wireless Power Transmission for Solar Power Satellite (SPS), page @ http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/wptshinohara.pdf, )
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Typical WPT is a point-to-point … edge of the transmitting antenna. </span>__








=Round 2= 

=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

Same aff with a new plan — The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of space-based weather modification capabilities.

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]