<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Need cites or just someone to talk to? Email me- david.galloway63@yahoo.com**</span>

[[toc|flat]]
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC ASU- </span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Clean Tech-</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan results in a clean energy takeover</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DOE ’12 Department of Energy http://www1.eere.energy.gov/hydrogenandfuelcells/about.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Fuel Cell Technologies Program...freight vehicles, including cars.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, that solves emission reductions and international spillover</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Berger ’12(Nathaniel, Analyst at the Lori Bennear Research Group at Duke Nicholas School of the Environment “Climate Change Reality for the United States” 9/27/12 http://sites.nicholas.duke.edu/loribennear/2012/09/27/climate-change-reality-for-the-united-states/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, despite the 3% of scientists’ denial...sooner rather than later.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, warming is real and anthropogenic- any defense from before July is obsolete</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Muller ’12 (Richard A, 7-28 Professor of Physics at Berkeley, and Faculty Senior Scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Institute for Nuclear and Particle Astrophysics. “The Conversion of a Climate Change Skeptic” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/30/opinion/the-conversion-of-a-climate-change-skeptic.html?pagewanted=all)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last year, following an intensive research...air trapped in polar ice</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, It’s reversible but solutions now are key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Levin ’12(Kelly Levin is a senior associate with WRI’s major emerging economies objective. She leads WRI’s Measurement and Performance Tracking Project, which builds capacity in developing countries to create and enhance systems that track emissions reductions associated with low-carbon development goals. She closely follows the negotiations under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and analyzes related emissions reduction targets and actions. Kelly has conducted an annual review of climate change science for WRI since 2005. She was also the Research Director and lead author of the 2010-2011 World Resources Report, which was dedicated to climate change adaptation, and specifically to how governments can improve decision making in a changing climate. “400PPM: Carbon Dioxide Levels Cross a Sobering Ne Threshold” WRI Insights http://insights.wri.org/news/2012/06/400-ppm-carbon-dioxide-levels-cross-sobering-new-threshold</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Concentrations of carbon dioxide...more uncertain world</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s comparatively the biggest existential risk</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strom ‘7 (Robert G., professor of planetary science, University of Arizona, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition pgs. 211-216 January 1st, 2007)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The future consequences of global warming...increase that number</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, arctic methane release causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Atcheson ‘4(John, former Department of Energy senior policy analyst and geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies “Ticking Time Bomb,” December 15, 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Methane is more than...No do-overs</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That outweighs nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Ryskin 3 (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, Illinois, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions” Geology 31(9): 741-744</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">https://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Upon release of a significant...nuclear war scenario</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, pollution collapses honeybee population</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eilpern 8 (Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer, “Air Pollution Impedes Bees' Ability to Find Flowers” Washington Post, 5/05/08, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/05/04/AR2008050401737.html )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scientists already knew that...be playing a role"</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Watson 7 (Joseph Watson, Prison Planet News. “Ecological Apocalypse: Why Are All the Bees Dying” April/10/07 [[http://www.opposingviews.com/i/politics/2012-election/arizona-border-drones-technology-and-social-strategy-]] gender edited)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alarming decline in...no more [hu]man[s]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is the Grid- </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is key to grid stability- multiple warrants</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Minardi 11 Dean Minardi is the chief financial officer for Bing Energy Inc., a manufacturer of state-of-the-art components for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells Don’t Give Away Our Leadership in Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies [[http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That entire investment will ...in this important arena.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, that solves massive grid failure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bradwell et al. ’10 (J. Bradwell, Dane A. Boysen, Luis A. Ortiz, and Donald R. Sadoway Department of Materials Science & Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA “Liquid Metal Battery: An Electrometallurgical Approach to Large-Scale Energy Storage” Electro Chemical Science and Technology Society http://ma.ecsdl.org/content/MA2010-02/4/187.short)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Large-scale storage of... very high current rates, and very low cost</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo conditions make meltdowns inevitable </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cappiello ‘11 (Dina, Huffington Post, "Long Blackouts Pose Risk To U.S. Nuclear Reactors" 3/29/11[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/29/blackout-risk-us-nuclear-reactors_n_841869.html)]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The reactor's radioactive core...condition of the core</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">IBT 11(International Business Times “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns”, September 14, 2011, http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Without the power grid...several years in a row</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, stability solves bioterror response </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kelly ‘8 [Nicholas S. Kelley, Research assistant with The Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy(CIDRAP) Business Source and a doctoral student in the Divison of Environmental Health Sciences at the University of Minnesota's School of Public Health, and Michael T. Osterholm, PhD, Director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy, director of the NIH‐supported Center of Excellence for Influenza Research and Surveillance within CIDRAP, a professor in the Division of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, and an adjunct professor in the Medical School, University of Minnesota. Written in their report “Pandemic Influenza, Electricity, and the Coal Supply Chain” http://www.sovrn.com/PDF/pubs_CIDRAP_Coal_Report.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When one considers public health...the loss of electricity</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Public health is the key internal link- prefer empirics</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Easterbrook ‘2 (Gregg,- author, lecturer, and senior analyst of The New Republic “'Weapons of Mass Destruction' Meaningless” [[http://www.why-]]war.com/news/2002/10/07/weaponso.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Note that bioweapons have done steadily...and antibiotics were given</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioterror is probable and outweighs nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maurer 7 [[http://violet.berkeley.edu/~gspp/iths/maurercv.htm|Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. ]]Director of the [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/index.html|Goldman School Project]] at the [[http://www.berkeley.edu/|University of California, Berkeley]] on [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/academics/affiliates/maurer.html|Information Technology and Homeland Security]]Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The new realities of terrorism...nuclear attack feasible </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially invest in alternative energy fuel cell technology in transit busses in the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3 is Solvency-</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Empirics prove fuel cells are key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Minardi 11 Dean Minardi is the chief financial officer for Bing Energy Inc., a manufacturer of state-of-the-art components for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells Don’t Give Away Our Leadership in Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies [[http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Obama Administration’s recent ... was allocated to the “smart grid.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, busses are key 2 internal links</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First is efficiency</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lowe et. al. 9 Marcy Lowe, Bengu Aytekin and Gary Gereffi of the Center on Globalization, Governance & Competitiveness, an affiliate of the Social Science Research Institute at Duke UniversityPublic Transit Buses: A Green Choice¶ Gets Greener¶ http://www.cggc.duke.edu/environment/climatesolutions/greeneconomy_Ch12_TransitBus.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The diesel engine is...new technology applications</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second is unique spillover</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schor 9 Elan Schor Congressional reporter, Environment & Energy Daily and Greenwire How Bus Transit Can Help the Auto Industry http://la.streetsblog.org/2009/10/26/how-bus-transit-can-help-the-auto-industry/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But the recession hasn't...the passenger car industry</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, only federal action- it's an issue of international perception</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FCD ’10 Fuel Cell Dispatch http://www.fuelcelldispatch.com/PortablePower/tabid/2705/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/779/Fuel-Cell-and-Hydrogen-Energy-Association-launche-campaign-to-transform-the-energy-network.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Fuel cells and hydrogen technologies...to foreign competition."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Investment now is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FCHEA 11 Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A complete transformation of the transit... other heavy‐duty propulsion technologies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, No DAs- Congress just approved Transportation Funding- link would have been triggered</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rahn 11/21/12. Pete Rahn writing for Inland Valley News November 21, 2012. “Transportation Bill focuses needed attention on Infrastructure” http://www.inlandvalleynews.com/2012/11/21/transportation-bill-focuses-needed-attention-on-infrastructure/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">State departments of transportation...multiple modes of travel.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 4 is Framing- </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interdependence checks war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deudney et al 9 (Daniel, professor of political science at John Hopkins, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of Autocratic Revival,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This bleak outlook is based...the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Empirics prove deterrence solves escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Murdock 8, Clark Murdock, senior advisor at CSIS, March 2008, “the Department of Defense and the Nuclear Mission in the 21st Century,” CSIS, online</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From a systemic perspective...nuclear deterrence holds fast</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Permanent psychological evolution checks</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fettweis 6, Assistant Professor in the Political Science Department at Tulane University, 2006, (Christopher J., strategist for two year at the US Naval War College, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or What if Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review, pp. 677-697)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Almost as significant...believe that it could not</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Models disprove nuclear war theory -- their evidence is falsified</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seitz 6 – former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for InternationalAffairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, [[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill...aloft for so long?</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hiroshima and large-scale volcanic eruptions prove smoke will dissipate after hours and the effect won’t be global</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dunning 11 (Brian, By profession I am a computer scientist, both as a Silicon Valley CTO and as a consulting engineer. My only academic credential that bears any scrutiny is in Writing for Film and Television from University of California, Los Angeles. I also have a credential that doesn't bear any scrutiny — and you'll find it at Thunderwood College. I'm also a member of the National Association of Science Writers. I've written a few books and numerous technical articles. I decided to put this experience to good use, and created the Skeptoid podcast. I'm also one of the featured bloggers on SkepticBlog, the official blog of the prospective TV series The Skeptologists which I host, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter,” http://skeptoid.com/episodes/4244)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So here we get into the meat of the question...favor of nuclear war?</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC La Costa Canyon-</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is Competitiveness-- </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They plan is key- supply and demand</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jerram 11 Lisa Jerram is a senior research analyst contributing to Pike Research's Smart Transportation practice “Could the United States Lose its Share of the Global Fuel Cell Market? “ January 28, 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.pikeresearch.com/blog/articles/could-the-united-states-lose-its-share-of-the-global-fuel-cell-market</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In my last post, I...the distribution supply chain.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, it establishes new economic frameworks that assume their defense</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DOE ’12 Department of Energy http://www1.eere.energy.gov/hydrogenandfuelcells/about.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Fuel Cell Technologies...scientific innovation</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competitiveness solves multiple nuclear conflicts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Freidberg et al. 8 (Aaron, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J. The Wall Street Journal “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Precipitous withdrawal -- attractive to a...Are we up for a task?</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, protectionism independently causes global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Panzner ‘8,Michael, Panzner 2008 faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. In a world of lockouts and...to cause widespread destruction.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, no alternative to growth- most qualed consensus</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nebbia 12 – Professor of Commodity Economics at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Bari (Giorgo, The Unsustainability of Sustainability, Capitalism Nature Socialism, 23:2, 95-107, 5/1/12, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10455752.2012.675236)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The welfare and survival...society and development</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, growth sustainable now</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Porter & Rivkin 12 Michael E. Porter is the Bishop William Lawrence University Professor,¶ based at Harvard Business School. Jan W. Rivkin is the Bruce V. Rauner¶ Professor at Harvard Business School http://www.hbs.edu/competitiveness/pdf/hbscompsurvey.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On any given day...and diverse capabilities</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2 is the Grid-- (above)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, grid stability solves nuclear miscalc</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Earth Island Journal 2K Winter, Vol. 14, No. 4, [[http://www.earthisland.org/]] eijournal/win2000/wr_ win2000y2k.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> NIRS notes that increasingly severe...are in de-alert status" </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Helfand et al. 9 (Ira and John, Pastore 2009, both past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility) “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama and Russian President...in place today</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3 is Solvency-- (above)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 4 is No K For You!-- </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, policy outweighs reps </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tuathail 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While theoretical debates at...that is human history</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, empirics prove failure to confront threats ensures escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thayer 6 (Bradley, Professor of Security Studies at Missouri State, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy,” Nov/Dec, 32-7)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In contrast, a strategy based...wishes to retreat</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, even ethical theories should prioritize stopping nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moore 97, Michael Moore, Warren Distinguished Professor of Law at University of San Diego School of Law, 1997, Placing Blame, p. 7 19-722 (ellipses in original)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Non-Absolute Moral Norms...concerned to 'sink or swim' together.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Realism Inevitable- Psychology</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hillman 4 (James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 2-4</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yet, for all this, has ever a major...on its remnants </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, failure to engage the political process turns us into spectators who are powerless to produce real change.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rorty 98 (prof of philosophy at Stanford, Richard, 1998, “achieving our country”, Pg. 7-9)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Such people findpride...no one with a spark of reason in him will</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The epistemology of the round should be falsifiability and empiricism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Coyne 6 – Professor of Biology @ the University of Chicago, Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Supernatural forces and events..of the contending parties</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC De Dev </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Innovation solves their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barker ‘2K (Brent, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, infotrac)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The rate of innovation is...The future begins now. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transition is impossible </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aligica ‘3 (Paul, Fellow @ Mercatus Center at George Mason U. and Adjunct Fellow @ Hudson Institute, “The Great Transition and the Social Limits to Growth: Herman Kahn on Social Change and Global Economic Development”, April 21, http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=2827)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Indeed Kahn made what...are trying to avoid </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan solves warming</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Berger ’12 (Nathaniel, Analyst at the Lori Bennear Research Group at Duke Nicholas School of the Environment “Climate Change Reality for the United States” 9/27/12 http://sites.nicholas.duke.edu/loribennear/2012/09/27/climate-change-reality-for-the-united-states/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, despite the 3% of scientists’ denial...less able to adapt </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T-Vehicles </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation investment includes motors </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hu ’12 (Patricia Hu, 2-9-2012, Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics – Research and Innovative Technology Administration, United States Department of Transportation, “Measuring Transportation Investment: Challenges and Opportunities,” [[http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/Proceedings/InfrastructureInv/HU.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Definition of Transportation Investment...Bureau of Transportation Statistics </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s 9 categories—that includes mass transit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congress ’11 [The US Senate – the 112th Congress of the United States. “Full Text of S. 652: Building and Upgrading Infrastructure for Long-term Development” 3/17/11 http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s652/text]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE...(ix) Freight rail systems. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, energy is T </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T.I.C. 12 (Transportation and Infrastructure Committee U.S. House of Representatives, “The American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act” January 31, 2012. [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/112th/Highways/2012-01-31-Final_Rollout.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The American Energy & Infrastructure Jobs Act...increased production of domestic energy. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, Doesn’t unlimit the topic</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dictionary.com ’12 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mass Transit-</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Referendum CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CP can’t solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. Unconstitutional – the court would strike it down</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schmidt et al in '5</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Steffen, Prof Pol Sci @ Iowa State, Barbara Bardes, Prof Pol Sci @ Cincinnati and Mack Shelley, Prof Pol Sci @ Iowa State, "American Government and Politics, 2005-2006, p. 2, Google Print)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As a practical matter...results of the vote </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Only conservatives would vote </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Haskell in ‘1 (John, Senior Fellow @ Government Affairs Institute, “Direct Democracy or Representative Government?” p. 104)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In fact, the evidence is</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. There's a reason why we have congress </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Haskell in ‘1</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(John, Senior Fellow @ Government Affairs Institute, “Direct Democracy or Representative Government?” p. 100)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">David Magleby, a scholar</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Democratization now hurts Russia Relations</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carothers ’6 – Director of the Democracy and Rule of Law Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Thomas, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2006, “The Backlash Against Democracy Promotion,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61509/thomas-carothers/the-backlash-against-democracy-promotion)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most systematic and...subvert its political order</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Allison ‘11 Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html 10-30)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Prime Minister VladimirPutin’sdecision...in advancing our national interests.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Ptx </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan has bipartisan </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brown 11 (Sherrod Brown, Senator of Ohio, Bipartisan Pair of Senators Lead Call for Continued Investment in Fuel Cells, 5/3/11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [[http://www.brown.senate.gov/newsroom/press/release/bipartisan-pair-of-senators-lead-call-for-continued-investment-in-fuel-cells]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In Bipartisan Letter...our clean energy portfolio</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conservatives love it </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Weinstock et al 11 (Annie Weinstock, Walter Hook, Michael Replogle, and Ramon Cruz of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy in New York¶ May 2011¶ Recapturing Global¶ Leadership in¶ Bus Rapid Transit http://www.itdp.org/documents/20110526ITDP_USBRT_Report-LR.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fiscal conservatives and...to improve transit service</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Winners win</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Green ‘10– professor of political science at Hofstra University (David Michael Green, 6/11/10, "The Do-Nothing 44th President ", http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moreover, there is a continuously evolving...what they did </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It get's lobbied by the industry- empirics</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tollefson 10 Jeff Tollefson writer for Nature: International Weekly Journal of Science “Hydrogen vehicles: Fuel of the future?” 29 April 2010 http://www.nature.com/news/2010/290410/full/4641262a.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last May, four months...restore the money </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Cap K </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap is converting now </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Financial Advice 9 (11/15/09, " Is capitalism under threat? ", http://financialadvice.co.uk/news/12/ukeconomy/12718/Is-capitalism-under-threat.html/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As we approach the next general election..dead but the monster is now on a tight leash! </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perm do both- policy is a pre-requisite to the alt </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zizek, professor of philosophy at the university of Ljubljana, 2001, “Repeating Lenin,” http://lacan.com/replenin.htm, accessed January 28, 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here, Lenin's stance against...deprived of his political sting</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism is key to democracy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Howard ‘5-Hassmann, Author, Canada Research Chair in Global Studies and Political Science at Wilfrid Laurier University and Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, 05 (Rhoda E. Howard-Hassmann, Author, Canada Research Chair in Global Studies and Political Science at Wilfrid Laurier University and Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, “The Second Great Transformation: Human Rights Leapfrogging in the Era of Globalization,” Human Rights Quarterly, 2005, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/human_rights_quarterly/v027/27.1howard-hassmann.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One piece of good news...action and organization </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turns all of their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Revel ’93 [Jean-Francois, sociopolitical analyst, Democracy Against Itself: The Future of the Democratic Impulse, trans. Roger Kaplan, New York: The Free Press, 258-9/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There have been natural cataclysms...has been tried already</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alt always fails</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Ibister ‘1 (John Isbister, Professor Economics, U. Cal @ Santa Cruz, in 2001 Capitalism and Justice, p. 46)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Some in the capitalist world...the door has been closed</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. economic leadership is benevolent and solves global war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mead 4 [Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, “America's sticky power,” Foreign Policy, March 2004]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE SUM OF ALL POWERS? The United States' global...Libya under economic sanctions. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security K </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s fixation on national interests and enemy creation is empirically the greatest cause of conflicts, facilitates dictatorial control, makes the use of nuclear weapons inevitable, and requires hysteria and willful strategic blindness that makes it a flawed way of viewing the world -- vote neg as an intellectual criticism of the 1ac’s securitizing representations</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shapiro 10, Iraq vs. U.S.: Total War Meets Pure War, [[http://www.alan-shapiro.com/iraq-vs-u-s-total-war-meets-pure-war/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since at least the beginning of the Reagan years...politicians and their institutions</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Steel DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Steel Industry Expanding Now, but Demand is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crabtree 10/18. James Crabtree for the FT.com. “Steel Producers fear rising China exports”. October 18, 2012. [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/3b92f970-191b-11e2-af4e-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2A41PrOfJ|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/3b92f970-191b-11e2-af4e-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2A41PrOfJ]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leading global steel producers...time, according to Chinese data.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Buy America revive the US steel industry – allows to compete internationally</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AAM 10 (Alliance for American Manufacturing) Feb 2010 “Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending”, http://www.mcwanebuyamerican.com/pdfs/buyamericanworks.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The deterioration of our industrial base...compete now and in the years to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased U.S. steel capacity undercuts China’s market share – that’s the backbone of Chinese growth </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Haley 9 (George, PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven) March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar industries had on U.S. industries and the U.S. economy? How are state-owned banks used to support China’s industrial policy? How do state-owned enterprises benefit from Chinese industrial policies?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The impact of Chinese governmental support has...and employment overseas to remain price competitive.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth prevents CCP lash out</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Susan Shirk 7(director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation) and Ho Miu Lam (professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs) 2007 Fragile China</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As China’s leaders well know...lashing out might endanger Party rule.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That goes nuclear </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yee and Storey 02 (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 (The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, p. 5.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fourth factor contributing to the perception</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adv CP- Fullerton Round 4</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The Environmental Protection Agency should utilize hexachlorocyclotriphosphazene and diaminobenzidine for the purpose of creating porous electron-rich covalent organonitridic frameworks.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP solves warming</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Marshall ’11 (Christa, writer for ClimateWire , Scientific American August 15 “New Sponge Material Could trap Power Plant Pollution” http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=new-sponge-material-could-trap-power-plant-pollution)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In a recent study, scientists at Lehigh...types of emissions, explained Landskron. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Overview</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP solves emissions comparatively better</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aston ’11 (Adam, Freelance journalist energy environment greenbiz science & technology, Global CCS Institute “Researchers find that PECONFs might offer a better CO2 sorbent at lower cost”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The search for a material that can soak up...an affordable option as a CO2 sorbent. </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NRs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Long Beach</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs. College Prep AF- Mayport </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Security K </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Nevada Union- Critical Ruralism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- USfg Framework & Hegemony Good K </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. Damien- CCS Pipelines </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Cost Conditions CP, Elections DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Octas vs. College Prep BG- Critical Racism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- USfg Framework </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fullerton </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Loyola- Guam Port</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Elections DA, Terror Defense on Case </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs. Torrey Pines- CCS </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Consumption K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. Damien- CCS </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Privatization CP and Elections DA</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">La Costa Canyon</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs Kuddos-AIP/NextGen</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- ASpec, Fiscal Cliff</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs. Damien- CCS </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Security K, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. Damien- Russian Bear</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- China Steal DA, Case </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Octas vs. Loyola FM- Guam </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Security K, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASU</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Heritage Hall- ERAM/Nextgen </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr-Privatization CP, Debt Ceiling DA, LUST Tradeoff DA </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Nevada Union- Critical Ruralism </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Framework and Narcissism Turns </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. South Anchorage- Roads</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2nr- Debt Ceiling DA, LUST Tradeoff DA, Cost Overruns Turns </span>