[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 24pt;">__Plan__</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.</span>**</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 24pt;">__Inherency__</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Current risk model for Port Security Grants needs to be reformed to more adequately reflect infrastructure</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__GAO 11__</span>** [Government Accountability Office, “PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM: Risk Model, Grant Management, and Effectiveness Measures Could Be Strengthened”, November 17, 2011, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-47]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Although <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">FEMA has taken </span><span class="GramE" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">the… the</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;"> highest risk port areas.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Port security grants used for infrastructure underfunded</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Page 07__</span>** [Paul Page, Economic Editor at the Journal of Commerce, May 21, 2007, “Halfway to Port Security”, The Journal of Commerce at UBM Global Trade, http://www.joc.com/regulation-policy/halfway-port-security_20070520.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">The Department of Homeland Security… prevention programs at their facilities</span>."</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 24pt;">__Economy__</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">First <span class="GramE">is jobs</span> - Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity–facilitate commerce and contribute to local, regional, and national economic growth</span>**
**__PR Newswire 2011__** __[__American Association of Port Authorities, 6/19/12 “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="GramE">Since 9/11, the Port Security…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;"> regional and national economic growth</span><span class="GramE">.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Second- the US economy relies heavily on maritime trade it accounts for 25% of US GDP</span>**
**__Fritelli 05__** [John F. <span class="SpellE">Fritelli</span>, Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, May 27, 2005, “CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress”,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Ships are the primary mode…<span style="text-decoration: none;"> filing process for U.S. importers</span>.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Risk of a double-dip now – low jobs numbers mean the US is vulnerable to shocks</span>**
**__Gongloff 6/8__** [Mark <span class="SpellE">Gongloff</span>, chief financial writer at The Huffington Post, June 1, 2012, “Jobs Report Puts World On Recession Watch”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/01/jobs-report-recession_n_1563002.html]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Get ready: <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">The ugly May…</span> until the next jobs report.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Causes global escalatory conflicts</span>**
__**Burrows and Harris 09**__ [Mathew J. Burrows, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC), PhD in European History from Cambridge University Jennifer Harris, a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit, April 2009, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Of course, the report encompasses… in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Not investing in Port infrastructure creates economic disadvantage</span>**
__**AAPA 6/18**__ [American Association of Port Authorities, represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States and more than 300 sustaining and associate members and firms, Aaron Ellis, Lack of parallel state & federal investment in intermodal connections hamper job creation, 6/18/2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Press/PRdetail.cfm?itemnumber=18583]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Mr. Nagle added that, despite substantial… <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">and sustain jobs</span>,” he said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Port Security is k<span class="SpellE">ey</span> to trade increases and jobs</span>**
__**AAPA 6/18**__ [American Association of Port Authorities, represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States and more than 300 sustaining and associate members and firms, Aaron Ellis, Lack of parallel state & federal investment in intermodal connections hamper job creation, 6/18/2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Press/PRdetail.cfm?itemnumber=18583]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"> “<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">Infrastructure investments in America’s ports</span>…<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;"> our exports more competitive overseas.”</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 24pt;">__Terrorism__</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ports are key to national security – terrorists are targeting them. Container screening is inadequate, and terrorists could either smuggle in WMD or use ships as weapons</span>**</span>
**__Nincic 09__** [Sea Lane Security and U.S. <span class="SpellE">MaritimeTrade</span>: Chokepoints as Scarce Resources by Donna J. <span class="SpellE">Nincic</span> Professor and Director of the ABS School of Maritime Policy and Management at the California Maritime Academy, California State University and worked at the US Department of Defense kms1.isn.ethz.ch]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">In the post-September 11 <span class="GramE">world</span>… be used “to deadly effect.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Ports are vulnerable to boats that have been captured by terrorists</span>**
**__Flynn 11__** [Stuart Flynn is Vice President at global maritime security services provider <span class="SpellE">SecureWest</span> International; Written February 4, 2011, Port Technology International; “Next Generation Port Security”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.porttechnology.org/images/uploads/technical_papers/PT40-25.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Firstly, it is imperative to… by being directly attacked itself.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction –no diplomatic checks on terrorist organizations</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**__SId-Ahmen 4__** [Mohamed Sid-Ahmed; former member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of Egypt, leading member of the National Progressive Unionist Party, and leading journalist for Al-<span class="SpellE">Ahmar</span>; Accessed June 25, 2012; http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm; Written August 26, 2004; “Extinction!”]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">The advent of the nuclear… we will all be losers</span>.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Increased funding for port security solves terrorism</span>**
**__Erera 03__** (Alan <span class="SpellE">Erera</span>, Associate Professor Cost of Security for Sea Cargo Transport National University of Singapore and the Georgia Institute of Technology, 26 May 2003<span class="GramE">,</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tliap.nus.edu.sg/tliap/research_whitepapers/security_cost_report.pdf|f]]</span>) 6/19/12)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">In order to address <span class="GramE">the</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">… </span><span class="GramE">be</span> incurred at every port.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 24pt;">__Solvency__</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">**Port Security Grant Program is the only major grant program for ports-allocated by Congress** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__American Enterprise Institute 05__</span>** [Veronique de <span class="SpellE">Rugy</span>, Is Port Security Spending Making Us Safer, September 7, 2005, http://directory.cip.management.dal.ca/publications/Is%20Port%20Security%20Spending%20Making%20Us%20Safer.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">Port Security Grant Program… </span>to state and local governments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">GAO reforms solve resource limitations and delays</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__GAO 11__</span>** [Government Accountability Office, “PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM: Risk Model, Grant Management, and Effectiveness Measures Could Be Strengthened”, November 17, 2011, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-47]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Port areas have unique characteristics… <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">critical port infrastructure is protected.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Risk management principles are key–funding allocation and Port Security Grant Program eligibility</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__GAO 11__</span>** [Government Accountability Office, “PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM: Risk Model, Grant Management, and Effectiveness Measures Could Be Strengthened”, November 17, 2011, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-47]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">In recent years, we, <span class="GramE" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">the… the</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;"> bulk of grant funding.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">And the USFG is key - states require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Puentes 11__</span>** [Robert <span class="SpellE">Puentes</span>, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The country needs to become… closer to our national goals?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Congress allocation of resources overlap-inefficient funding</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Thompson 11__</span>** (Laura Thompson Commander, United States Coast Guard nhttp://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2011/September/11Sep_Thompson.pdf U.S. MARITIME SECURITY: SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES September 2011 master thesis 6/23/12)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">DHS</span> Secretary <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">testified to Congress…</span> to execute the President’s strategy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Airports and borders are secure – ports are key</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Carlton 01__</span>** Bruce j. Carlton acting deputy maritime administrator before the committee on commerce, science and transportation united states senate on port and maritime security Department of transportation maritime administration statement of July 24, 2001 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/01test/Carlton2.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">Terrorism is also a concern… </span>ways to minimize criminal activity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan reduces vulnerability to terrorists - Technology exists for container tracking</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Goslin, 8__</span>** [Vice President of International Operations for Duos Technologies [Maritime and Port Security by Charles <span class="SpellE">Goslin</span>, Inc. and Former <span class="SpellE">Seinior</span> Advisor to the Regional Joint Terrorism Task Forces in the U.S. http://www.google.com/url<span class="GramE">?sa</span>=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=7&ved=0CHYQFjAG&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.eskema.eu%2FDownloadFile.aspx%3FtableName%3DtblSubjectArticles%26field%3DPDF%2520Filename%26idField%3DsubjectArticleID%26id%3D514&ei=zq9wT4baBuiDsALHt5X3BQ&usg=AFQjCNFszV4Yx95-79z5BZjgi4ckuDE0IQ&sig2=shSnWWRop3hNee8nzpZigw]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">INTERMODAL CONTAINER EXIT SYSTEM (ICES®)… authority checkpoints and weigh stations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Port Diversion is not a feasible option in case of a terrorist attack</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span class="CiteChar" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">__Gordon et al 06__</span>** [Peter Gordon is a Professor in the University of California's School of Policy, Planning and Development. He is also attached to USC’s Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorist Events (CREATE) Gordon and his colleagues have developed various economic impact models which they apply to the study of the effects of infrastructure investments or disruptions from natural events or terrorist attacks<span class="GramE">.[</span>James E. Moore, II, and Harry W. Richardson (University of Southern California), <span class="SpellE">Qisheng</span> Pan (Texas Southern University, Houston) <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span>, Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost, 6/20/12]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">As yet, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none;">there is considerable…</span> larger than those derived here.</span>

=Negative= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Harvard</span>**</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**Round 2:** **Chandler Preparatory Academy LG—Natives**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Immigration Reform and XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**Round 4:** **Sequoyah High School CW—Climate**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Immigration reform and XO CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**Round 5:** **East Mountain High School ML—<span class="SpellE">NextGen</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Immigration reform and XO CP</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]