=1AC-University of California @ Berkeley= 
===Plan Text=== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.==== 


===Contention 1 is Terrorism=== 

**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress t....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the federal level.</span>

**Specifically, cargo operations aren’t sophisticated enough**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz 7/15</span> (Douglas, Washington Post National Security Editor and Deputy Staff Director and Chief Investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Port Security: U.S. Fails to meet Deadline for Scanning of Cargo Containers”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The administration’s failure ..... computers from Japan.</span>

====**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/26/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Mike Shuster ..... highly enriched uranium.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Terrorists have the motive to attack**
**A. The anti-muslim video**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ephron 9-15</span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ......</span> be a miracle.”

**B. The assassination of Bin Laden**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LA Times 5/7</span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12)
Reporting from Islamabad, ......<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"> killed were militants.</span>

**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Maerli 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A striking parallel ........</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a nuclear explosive.</span>

**Ports are uniquely vulnerable compared to other targets – makes them most likely**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir 06</span> (NiyaziOnurBakir. USC Center for Homeland Security (CREATE). “Vulnerabilities along US Borders: A Brief Analysis of Risks Posed by Terrorist, Illegal Weapons, and Explosives Traffic through US Borders, and Countermeasures for Risk Mitigation.” March 14, 2006. http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1008&context=nonpublished_reports)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The efforts to counter...... are located near ports. </span>

**Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hurst 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2/8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">recent studies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ......</span> the U.S. economy.

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME)
A nuclear attack ...... all be losers.

**Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack**
John **Medalia 6** Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[@http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should........ other potential targets.</span>

**An attack causes a Russia War**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear .......</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of nuclear restraint.</span>

**Instant Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wickersham 11 </span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nearly 20 years ...... deployed at Knob Noster.</span>

**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>The inspector general ......<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>

**That causes extinction – this is comparatively the WORST impact**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prado 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As biotechnology has ..... Then came the year 2001. </span>

**A port attack shuts down naval power**
**Watts 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">coastline and 3.4 million square miles..... we learn from the experience? </span>

**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf
The<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>Navy has .....<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> overburdened airlift resources. </span>

**The U.S. navy’s missile defense makes escalation of war impossible**
**Carey 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship, John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ronald Reagan's vision ...... or in the U.S.</span>

**Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Assessments by Officials with .......</span> //by the end of 2013.”//


===Contention 2 is the Economy=== 
**Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy. Their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just recession induced dips**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, .......make up international trade.</span>

**A port attack spills over to the global economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(From the IBM Center for the Business of Government, David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Scenario Three: </span>Direct Attack .......<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, would quickly run out of food.</span>

**Economic decline causes war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is ....... to those views.</span>

New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence
**Palac-McMiken 5**(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>counter-terrorism ......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> purpose of illustration.</span>
**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)
__The loss of investor......__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span>**__negative feedback effects__**__.__

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 
**Visualization and imaging technology solves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PPIC 6</span> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting theNation’s Seaports:<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Balancing Securityand Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As documentation cannot ...... are then detected.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**And the USFG is key - states require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions**
**Puentes 11 – Director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes; Brookings, Accessed June 19 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The country needs ....... our national goals?</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">T-bill thumps disproves your links</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Laing 9/27 (</span>Keith, national political journalist who works for The Hill, covers transportation policy in Congress and manages the paper’s Transportation Report blog, "LaHood: 'New transportation era' begins Monday with highway bill implementation", [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/highways-bridges-and-roads/258969-lahood-dot-gearing-up-for-new-transportation-era-with-highway-bill-implementation]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transportation Secretary Ray </span>......<span style="font-size: 7pt;">for the measure.</span>

**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox News 8/1</span> (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Western </span>strikes on.......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of greater violence.</span>

**It’s only a matter of time before an attack occurs – the only question is when and where**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 6</span>(Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards” 3/9/2006, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]])
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When it comes to port ........major new investments in security. </span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6240px; width: 1px;">
===<span style="text-indent: .5in;">Plan Text </span>=== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.==== 
===Contention 1 is Terrorism=== 

====Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">AAPA 3/7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, 3/7/12) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">AAPA urges Congress to continue to authorize and appropriate $400 million for the ¶ program.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> AAPA is concerned that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">last year’s <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">drastic ¶ cuts to</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> state homeland security grants, including </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the </span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">port security grant program, will threaten the ability of ¶ our nation to maintain our current capacity or expand it</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">.¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> For </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">FY 2012, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Congress combined all grants, cut them ¶ by 40 percent </span>and gave DHS the authority to determine ¶ the final funding level. DHS</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> subsequently </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">cut the Port ¶ Security Grants further by decreasing the level of ¶ funding by 59 percent</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">from last year’s funding level<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. </span></span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">It¶ is currently at a leve</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">l </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">that is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">less than 75 percent of the ¶ authorized amount</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">.¶</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> DHS is also considering a move to merge all grant ¶ programs into one program to fund all critical ¶ infrastructure segments and transfer distribution to the ¶ states, a move which AAPA strongly opposes. Port ¶ Security is a federal responsibility and it should remain ¶ at the federal level. </span>
====Specifically, cargo operations aren’t sophisticated enough==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Frantz 7/15</span></span> (Douglas, Washington Post National Security Editor and Deputy Staff Director and Chief Investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Port Security: U.S. Fails to meet Deadline for Scanning of Cargo Containers”, Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html)  
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The administration’s failure to meet the deadline has left some members of Congress and outside experts concerned about whether the threat is being taken seriously enough.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> “I personally do not believe they intend to comply with the law,” Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), co-author of the 2007 law, said in an interview. “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">This is a real terrorist threat, and it has a solution. We </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">can’t afford to wait</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> until a catastrophic attack</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The DHS says monitors scan 99 percent of the containers for radiation after they arrive at U.S. ports. But experts say </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the monitors at U.S. ports are </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">not sophisticated enough</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> to detect nuclear devices or highly enriched uranium, which emit low levels of radiation.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The Government Accountability Office has warned that a nuclear device could be detonated while at a port — containers often sit for days awaiting radiation checks — causing billions of dollars in damage in addition to the loss of life. Estimates of damage caused by a nuclear detonation at a major port range from tens of billions of dollars to $1 trillion.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Shipping containers are</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> potentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">ideal for smuggling weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, people and other illicit cargo; ensuring the integrity of the contents is difficult and costly. The standard container is 40 feet long and 8 feet high and holds more than 30 tons of cargo. A large vessel carries 3,000 or more containers from hundreds of different shippers and many ports. And a single container can hold cargo from many customers.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Counterterrorism experts have worried about port vulnerability since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the self-described mastermind of the attacks, reportedly told interrogators he had considered sending explosives to the United States hidden inside a shipment of personal computers from Japan. </span>
====Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">NPR 3/26</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, 3/26/12) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, the main subject of the summit in South Korea is the problem ofpotentially insecure nuclear materials around the world. For short, loose nukes. In April 2009, President Obama called for a global effort to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world in four years.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Well, on the eve of the Seoul Summit, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School has released a progress report on that four-year effort. And joining us is one of the authors, Matthew Bunn, a former White House staffer who's now at Harvard and is a specialist on this issue. Welcome to the program once again.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> DR. MATTHEW BUNN: Good to be here.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> SIEGEL: And first, what's encouraging in your progress report is that you actually find there has been some progress. How do you measure that progress?</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> BUNN: Well, it's a hard thing to measure the progress. But we look at those stocks of nuclear material or nuclear weapons that seem to us to pose some of the highest risks. And we say, is something being done to reduce that risk and is it significant? And we find that for most of the highest risk stocks, the answer is yes.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> For example, Ukraine just got rid of all of the weapons-usable nuclear material on its soil. The one area where we said, you know, there is progress on nuclear security but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the things that threaten</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear security are growing </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">even faster, and so the risk is getting worse and not better</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, was Pakistan.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> SIEGEL: That's right. In assessing the three highest-risk nuclear stockpiles, you report significant progress and risks that are either stable or declining in Russia and in research reactors around the world. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">when the subject is <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Pakistan, </span>your report is</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> a lot more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">disturbing</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> BUNN: Well, Pakistan has a small and well-guarded nuclear stockpile. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">that <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">stockpile faces huge threats</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, both </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">from insiders who might help steal nuclear weapons or materials</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, and from outsiders who might attack. There were well-armed, well-trained outsiders who attacked Pakistani military headquarters and a Pakistani military base, in both cases apparently with inside information. And you worry about that kind of attack taking place at a nuclear weapons storage site.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> SIEGEL: Well, your report acknowledges a kind of a paradoxical irony here, which is you talk about that. And the Pakistanis come to regard a U.S. strike to secure their nuclear arsenal as one of their vulnerabilities. And they become even more opaque and less cooperative about their nuclear program.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> BUNN: That's absolutely true. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The Pakistanis won't let</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, for example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">U.S. experts go to their nuclear sites</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> because they're afraid if we knew where they were we'd be tempted to seize their nuclear stockpiles. I think </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Pakistan is an ongoing concern</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> in part </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">because <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">their stockpile is</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the fastest-growing in the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. They're making more and more as we try to lock this material down. So, there's a lot to be done to reduce the risks in Pakistan.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> SIEGEL: Since, let's say, the breakup of the Soviet Union, how close have we come to somebody effectively - to the extent that we know it's happened - stealing materials with which one could make a nuclear weapon?</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> BUNN: We know that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the theft of potential nuclear bomb material</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, that is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">highly enriched uranium or plutonium, is not a hypothetical worry, it's an </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">ongoing reality</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">There are about 20 well-documented cases in the unclassified record</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, more in the classified record, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">of seizure of real highly enriched uranium or real plutonium that have been stolen.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">¶</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the most recent one of those was just last year in Moldova</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. And that case was particularly distressing because the Moldovan authorities say that they have information that smugglers, as yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
====Terrorists have the motive to attack==== 
====A. The anti-muslim video==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ephron 9-15</span></span> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html) 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bodies of</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Ambassador Christopher </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Stevens and <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">three</span> other <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Americans slain</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in Libya this week </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">arrived</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the United States yesterday amid disagreements on whether the attack that killed them was pre-planned and also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">amid</span> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">rising concerns that widespread Muslim anger could trigger a terrorist attack on U.S. soil.</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> From North Africa to Bangladesh, tens of thousands of people protested for a fourth day, in what started as a</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> backlash against an <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">anti-Muslim video</span> produced in the U.S. and has <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">turned into the most serious test in relations between America and the Muslim world</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> since the start of mass uprisings in the region early last year. At least seven people were killed in yesterday’s events, which included large demonstrations in Lebanon, Sudan and the Palestinian Gaza Strip. In Tunisia, protesters breached and looted the American embassy and clashed violently with police and security forces. American staffers had cleared out of the before the protesters arrived. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In New York, a high-ranking police official said that the tumult over the film has heightened the possibility of violence at home. “People who might have been sitting on the fence,” are more inclined towards action, he said, referring to possible domestic terrorism. “<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If nothing happens here before the end of the year, it will be a miracle.”</span> </span>

====B. The assassination of Bin Laden==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">LA Times 5/7</span></span> (Los Angeles Times news service, quoting Al Qaeda, “Al Qaeda threatens revenge against U.S.”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/07/world/la-fg-qaeda-warning-20110507]], 5/7/12) 
Reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan — <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda vowed to avenge the death of</span></span> Osama <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">bin Laden</span> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">with retaliation against the U.S.</span></span> "soon," in a warning that the terrorist network posted this week on militant websites. In confirming the death of its leader in a statement dated Tuesday,  
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda urged Muslims to not stray from the path of armed struggle against the United States</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The terrorist network said it would soon release an audio message made by Bin Laden a week before his death in which he passes along "advice and guidance."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶ ¶ ¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Bin Laden was killed early Monday in a U.S. commando raid on a compound in the Pakistan garrison city of Abbottabad that he had used as a hideout for the last five years. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Experts have said his death deals a significant blow to Al Qaeda but </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">probably won't mean its demise</span>////.//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span> <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">The Internet statement released by Al Qaeda warned that</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> "soon, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">with God's help, we pray that their happiness turns into sorrow, and may their </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">blood mix with their tears."</span>// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Al Qaeda</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> militants, the statement said, "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">will continue to plan and plot </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">without any fatigue, boredom, despair, surrender or indifference</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶ ¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Al Qaeda also urged Pakistanis to mount an uprising against their U.S.-allied government.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶ ¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> The statement appeared to be written before the U.S. government announced that Bin Laden had been buried at sea in accordance with Islamic rites. "We warn the Americans to not commit any injustice against the corpse of Sheik Osama. … Any inappropriate treatment will open the doors of double evil."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span> <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> On Friday, the U.S. carried out its first drone missile strike in Pakistan since Bin Laden's death, killing 13 suspected militants in North Waziristan. The tribal region along the Afghan border is home to Afghan Taliban militants who routinely cross the border into Afghanistan to launch attacks on U.S. and NATO forces.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶ ¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> The strike involved eight missiles fired at suspected militants in a car, a restaurant and a local seminary in the Datta Khel area. That village was the site of a controversial drone strike March 17 that killed more than 40 people, most of whom Pakistani officials said were tribal elders and civilians rather than militants. U.S. officials insisted the people killed were militants. </span>
====Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Maerli 2k</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">-</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">2K, p. 111-112.) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding crude nuclear weapons production and whether sub-national groups will succeed in producing them. Unsuccessful state nuclear programs (e.g., the Iraqi’s are often cited as evidence of the difficulties of establishing reliable nuclear weapons programs. Unfortunately, this line of reasoning may lead to underestimating the threat from nuclear terrorists. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">It is important to recognize the</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> technical opportunities available and the <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">limited skills required for the successful production of a crude nuclear explosive device</span></span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">. In fact, there is a good deal of misunderstanding about the ease with which a sub-national group could fabricate a nuclear explosive. As with biological weapons</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">no basic research is required to construct a nuclear weapon</span></span><span style="background: yellow; color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;"> Luis W. Alvarez, a prominent nuclear weapons scientist in the Manhattan Project, has argued that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">it is not difficult to set off explosive using</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">highly enriched uranium (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">HEU</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">). With modern weapons-grade uranium, the background neutron rate is so low that terrorists, if they have such materials, would have a good chance of setting off a high-yield explosion simply by dropping one half of the material onto the other half. Most people seem unaware that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">if separated HEU is at hand it’s a trivial job to set off a nuclear explosion… [and] even a high school kid could make a bomb in short order.</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">Not all weapons scientists would go so far as to argue that a high school student could make a bomb, but the z</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">technical capabilities to set off an explosion using nuclear materials should</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">certainly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">be considered as within reach for</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">some </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">terrorists</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">. </span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Moreover, terrorists may also be attracted to a crude nuclear weapons option due to the low radiation levels associated with HEU. In contrast to biological materials for weapons, fresh (unirradiated) uranium material can be handled unshielded without protective measures. HEU thus provides a convenient material for weapons production for groups with limited resources and no access to advanced laboratories. Uranium was indeed the material of choice for both the Hiroshima bomb and the South African nuclear weapons program. “Little Boy,” the HEU bomb the United States dropped on Hiroshima in 1945, was triggered by a simple “gun” mechanism. A small, slug shaped piece of uranium was fired down a barrel into a larger, cup-shaped piece of heu. This elementary design generated a destructive force of about 15 kilotons (kt)—the equivalent of 15,000 tons of TNT. South Africa produced six nuclear devices based on the simple uranium gun-type principle while under the constraints of an international embargo, and thus having to rely on its own resources. The</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">produced more than 50 years ago represented sophisticated technology and science </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">at that time. Today these weapons are not only old, they are primitive. Their <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">designs are well </span></span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">known form the scientific literature. Even lectures that were given to the physicists of the Manhattan Project at its commencement have now been published. Likewise, within the information swamp of the internet, potential nuclear weapons producers can find some useful sites. The detailed weapons descriptions remain classified; however, Frank Barnaby has argued that a competent group of physicistsand engineers, given adequate resources and acesss to literature, would have little difficulty in designing a fission weapons from scratch. They</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> would not need to access any classified information</span></span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">.</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> Indeed, to reveal the potential of clandestine nuclear bomb production, nuclear scientists have presented technical outlines of crude gun-type weapons based on readily available commercial equipment and explosives. For example, one design that is about one-meter long and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-language: EN-US;">  </span></span>
====Ports are uniquely vulnerable compared to other targets – makes them most likely==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Bakir 06</span></span> (NiyaziOnurBakir. USC Center for Homeland Security (CREATE). “Vulnerabilities along US Borders: A Brief Analysis of Risks Posed by Terrorist, Illegal Weapons, and Explosives Traffic through US Borders, and Countermeasures for Risk Mitigation.” March 14, 2006. http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1008&context=nonpublished_reports) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The efforts to counter domestic terrorism have significantly shifted towards ensuring security of the aviation industry after the blatant attacks on the World Trade Center. As our antiterrorist thinking evolved, we have realized that a more comprehensive approach to homeland security is required. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Ports rank relatively higher on the homeland security agenda because the potential impact of hampering port operations could be an economic disaster</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Since 9/11, ports have been awarded a total of $565 million for security upgrades.37According to a Brookings Institution‟sreport, a port closing could cost the economy as high as $1 trillion.38 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Port security has been increasingly intertwined with the security of containerized cargo in the public and media</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. While containers are inarguably the “Trojan Horses” of the modern era, failure to recognize other vulnerabilities may leave the US homeland unguarded for another surprise attack. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">following characteristics of maritime ports make them a potential target for terrorists:39 o Ports encompass a large operational area that is hard to secure either, from water or land.</span> o The volume of trade that crosses through the nation‟s ports is huge, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">making it practically impossible to check the contents of each piece of cargo while ensuring efficient and timely delivery of goods to their final destinations. o</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Many critical coastal targets, such as petroleum tank farms, hazardous material storage facilities, bridges, and factories are located around the ports.</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">o</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A successful attack is likely to result in the high number of deaths as major US cities are located near waterways</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. o</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The number of stakeholders is high, with usually conflicting priorities.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> This undermines the effectiveness of security measures. o</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ports employ a good number of people, all facing the risk of injury or death in the case of an attack</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Transportation facilities with a high concentration of passengers are located near ports. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> </span></span>
====Studies and historical trends prove that terrorists want to attack ports==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Hurst 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, 2/8) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">recent studies</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> run counter to ¶ Clarke’s alleged conclusion. One of the ¶ best ways to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">study al-Qaeda</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, or any ¶ other terrorist group, is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">through <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">an¶ analysis of historical trends</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. In early 2007, ¶ Rand Corporation released a lengthy ¶ analytical report on terrorist targeting ¶ preferences for the Department of ¶ Homeland Security. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The paper focused ¶ <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">on 14 terrorist attacks in which al-Qaeda </span>¶<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> was </span>believed to have been somehow ¶ <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">involved</span>, either through association, ¶ sponsorship or direction</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. According to the ¶ study, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">10 out of the 14</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> attacks analyzed ¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">had</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">either a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">medium or high casualty ¶ potential</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. In other words, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">these attacks ¶ were </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">meant to kill</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> people—</span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">a lot of people</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. ¶ However, the other four attacks had a ¶ low casualty potential. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">The study further ¶ showed a </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">desire to damage the economy</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">, ¶ </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">with 10 of the 14 attacks indicating</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> a ¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">medium or high potential to damage the ¶ economy</span></span> and the other four with a low¶ potential. Based simply on the Rand ¶ study, Clarke’s statement that the ¶ proposed terminal location would pose ¶ “no threat,” is a dangerous assumption ¶ which leaves no room for error because ¶al-Qaeda and its associates, through ¶ propagations distributed via the Internet, ¶ have already expressed an interest in ¶ crippling the U.S. economy.<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> </span>
====Extinction==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Ahmed 4</span></span> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME) 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will be</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> much more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">critical</span> </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">than Hiroshima and Nagazaki, even if -- and this is far from certain -- the weapons used are less harmful than those used then, Japan, at the time, with no knowledge of nuclear technology, had no choice but to capitulate. Today, the technology is a secret for nobody. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">So far</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, except for the two bombs dropped on Japan, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear weapons have been used only to threaten. Now we are at a stage where they can be detonated</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. This completely changes the rules of the game. We have reached a point where anticipatory measures can determine the course of events. Allegations of a terrorist connection can be used to justify anticipatory measures, including the invasion of a sovereign state like Iraq. As it turned out, these allegations, as well as the allegation that Saddam was harbouring WMD, proved to be unfounded. What would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists?</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> Even if it fails, it would</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> further </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">exacerbate the negative features of the new and frightening world</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in which we are now living. Societies would close in on themselves, police measures would be stepped up at the expense of human rights, tensions between civilisations and religions would rise and ethnic conflicts would proliferate. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">It would also speed up the arms race and develop the awareness that a different type of world order is imperative if humankind is to survive</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. But the still more critical scenario is if the attack succeeds. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">This could lead to a third world war,</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> from which no one will emerge victorious. Unlike a conventional war which ends when one side triumphs over another, this war will be without winners and losers. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span> </span>
====Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack==== 
John **Medalia 6** Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[@http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port Security Have? The 9/11 Commission wrote, “Opportunities to do harm are as great, or greater, in maritime or surface transportation [compared to commercial aviation]. Initiatives to secure shipping containers have just begun.” Terrorists “may be deterred by a significant chance of failure.”20 </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Improving the ability to detect terrorist nuclear weapons in the maritime transportation system may make a terrorist attack on a port less likely to succeed, and thus less probable</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> A</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">merican </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ssociation of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">P</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">ort</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">uthorities, a trade association, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">welcomed</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">federal grants fo<span style="background: yellow;">r</span></span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">port security</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> upgrades to comply with the MTSA, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but called for “substantially greater resources</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”21 Others agree that more resources are needed to secure U.S. ports, such as to reduce overcrowding of cargo-handling facilities and to hire more workers.22 A similar case could be made for gas pipelines, electric power plants, rail yards, or bridges. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At issue for Congress ishow to allocate security</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">funds</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">among ports and other potential targets. </span>
====An attack causes a Russia War==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Ayson 10</span></span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. Indeed, there are reasons to wonder whether nuclear terrorism should ever be regarded as belonging in the category of truly existential threats. A contrast can be drawn here with the global catastrophe that would come from a massive nuclear exchange between two or more of the sovereign states that possess these weapons in significant numbers. Even the worst terrorism that the twenty-first century might bring would fade into insignificance alongside considerations of what a general nuclear war would have wrought in the Cold War period. And it must be admitted that as long as the major nuclear weapons states have hundreds and even thousands of nuclear weapons at their disposal, there is always the possibility of a truly awful nuclear exchange taking place precipitated entirely by state possessors themselves. But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that </span>some sort of terrorist attack, and especially <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapon</span>s</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">between two or more of the states that </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> themselves. For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> correct </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at </span>all)<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China</span>,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> heightened tension or </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even limited conflict with the United States</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> just </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (and possibly nuclear force) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">against them</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> In that situation</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the temptations to preempt such actions might grow</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. There is also the question of how other nuclear-armed states respond to the act of nuclear terrorism on another member of that special club. It could reasonably be expected that following a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States, both Russia and China would extend immediate sympathy and support to Washington and would work alongside the United States in the Security Council. But there is just a chance, albeit a slim one, where the support of Russia and/or China is less automatic in some cases than in others. For example, what would happen if the United States wished to discuss its right to retaliate against groups based in their territory? If, for some reason, Washington found the responses of Russia and China deeply underwhelming, (neither “for us or against us”) might it also suspect that they secretly were in cahoots with the group, increasing (again perhaps ever so slightly) the chances of a major exchange. If the terrorist group had some connections to groups in Russia and China, or existed in areas of the world over which Russia and China held sway, and if Washington felt that Moscow or Beijing were placing a curiously modest level of pressure on them, what conclusions might it then draw about their culpability? If Washington decided to use, or decided to threaten the use of, nuclear weapons, the responses of Russia and China would be crucial to the chances of avoiding a more serious nuclear exchange. They might surmise, for example, that while the act of nuclear terrorism was especially heinous and demanded a strong response, the response simply had to remain below the nuclear threshold. It would be one thing for a non-state actor to have broken the nuclear use taboo, but an entirely different thing for a state actor, and indeed the leading state in the international system, to do so. If Russia and China felt sufficiently strongly about that prospect, there is then the question of what options would lie open to them to dissuade the United States from such action: and as has been seen over the last several decades, the central dissuader of the use of nuclear weapons by states has been the threat of nuclear retaliation. If some readers find this simply too fanciful, and perhaps even offensive to contemplate, it may be informative to reverse the tables. Russia, which possesses an arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads and that has been one of the two most important trustees of the non-use taboo, is subjected to an attack of nuclear terrorism. In response, Moscow places its nuclear forces very visibly on a higher state of alert and declares that it is considering the use of nuclear retaliation against the group and any of its state supporters. How would Washington view such a possibility? Would it really be keen to support Russia’s use of nuclear weapons, including outside Russia’s traditional sphere of influence? And if not, which seems quite plausible, what options would Washington have to communicate that displeasure? If China had been the victim of the nuclear terrorism and</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> seemed likely to retaliate in kind, would the United States and Russia be happy to sit back and let this occur? </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack,</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span> 
====Instant Extinction==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Wickersham 11 </span></span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">humankind</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> still </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">faces the distinct possibility of </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">instant extinction</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> without representation. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If nuclear war occurs between Russia and the United States, there will be</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> no parliamentary or Congressional debates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">no</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">r </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">declarations of war.</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> In a time of crisis</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> or perceived attack, the Russian and U.S. presidents each have only a few minutes to make a decision to order an attack against each other. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The time frame for </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">those </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">decisions could be as short as </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">seven minutes</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> depending on the nature of the perceived attack and the efficiency of communications within the respective early-warning chains of command. Launch-to-landing time for submarine-launched nuclear missiles can occur in as few as four minutes. Launch-to-landing time for hundreds of land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles is about 25 minutes. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">An attack with </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">just two</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> 1-megaton nuclear </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">warheads would unleash explosive power equivalent to</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that caused by </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">all the bombs used during World War II</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> For the duration of the Cold War, leaders of the United States and USSR were concerned about the devastation both countries would experience if a nuclear war were triggered by a false alarm attributable to human or technological error. The Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on New York killed nearly 3,000 people, causing massive destruction, chaos and grief. In comparison, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> purposeful or accidental </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear strike between the United States and Russia </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">would kill hundreds of millions in the short term and many more over time caused by worldwide, wind-driven nuclear fallout. Thus, the threat of nuclear war </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is the </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">most serious potential health, environmental, agricultural, educational and moral problem facing humanity</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, said research makes clear the environmental consequences of a U.S.-Russian nuclear war: “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">If these weapons are detonated</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the large cities of either of their nations, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">they will cause such catastrophic damage to the global environment that the Earth will become </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">virtually uninhabitable</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for most humans and many other complex forms of life.” (See www.nucleardarkness.org.)</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> It is important for Missourians to be aware that a Russian nuclear attack on the United States would probably incinerate the Honeywell nuclear bomb parts factory in Kansas City, the Boeing Defense, Space and Security plant near St. Louis, and Whiteman Air Force Base, home of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster. </span>

====Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">GSN 9</span></span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9) 
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland Security Department </span>last month<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> faulted</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> one </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">DHS</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> agency </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">for not doing enough to prevent </span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">chemical and</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> biological weapons from being smuggled into the country</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (see GSN, June 26).</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> In a partially redacted document, the Inspector General's Office found that Customs and Border Protection officials had "not conducted a formal risk assessment to determine which pathways, including maritime cargo, pose the highest risk of biological and chemical weapons entering the nation."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> The report recommends that a formal risk assessment be carried out to make certain that Customs and Border Protection was assigning its detection resources to those points of entry that offer the greatest threat to national security.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> The department acknowledged that Customs and Border Protection "has taken steps to mitigate the threat of nuclear and radiological weapons in maritime cargo containers."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Agency officials have said new detectors that would aid inspectors in the detection and identification of biological and chemical weapons are under development.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Inspector General's Office</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">recommended that Customs and Border Protection revisit and make current its protocols on the investigation of containers</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">suspected</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">of carrying </span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">chemical and</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> biological weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Without</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> updated policies to focus </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">cargo inspections, biological and chemical threats may go undetected</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">," according to the report.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Customs and Border Protection agreed with the findings of the report (U.S. Homeland Security Department report, Oct. 7).</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> The report came as a result of a measure in the Cost Guard and Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2004 that requires a yearly review of procedures for the inspection of port cargo, the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee said yesterday in a press release.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> "Tireless </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">assessment of</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> inspection procedures at </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">our ports</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, and the adaptation of those procedures to face 21st century threats head on, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">is critically important to strengthening </span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">America's</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> national security</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">," said Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va) in the release.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> "To ensure our ports are secure, it is crucial we determine which pathways into America pose the greatest risk of biological and chemical weapons release and use the most cutting-edge, proven technologies for interdiction," Rockefeller said, "A plan to deploy these improved detection resources in our ports will be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2) </span>
====That causes extinction – this is comparatively the WORST impact==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Prado 12</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">In the past century, it took</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> a country or rogue organization, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a lot of money, and special skills to create a weapon of mass destruction</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (WMD). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Now, it takes just one person, the internet, and a small cheap lab.</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Instead of "Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD)", we are faced with "Weapons of Mass Extinction (WME)".¶ For example, in 2011, in a surprise address to the Biological Weapons Convention in Geneva, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stated: "Less than a year ago, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">al Qaeda</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the Arabian Peninsula </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">made a call to arms for</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, and I quote, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">'brothers with degrees in microbiology or chemistry to develop a weapon of mass destruction</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.'"Clinton-UN¶ She also officially acknowledged the generally accepted situation that "A crude but effective terrorist weapon can be made by using a small sample of any number of widely available pathogens, inexpensive equipment, and college-level chemistry and biology" and noted that "it is not possible, in our opinion, to create a verification regime" for preventing biological weapons.¶ This came just a few months after two independent developments </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">-- a scientist in the Netherlands, and a</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> team led by a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Japanese scientist</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> at the University of Wisconsin -- both </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">announced</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">they had created viruses</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the laboratory </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">which are far more virulent than anything which had occurred naturally</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, potentially </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the most deadly virus ever faced by humans</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Both were created by modifying the H5N1 Bird Flu virus in the laboratory. These scientists were apparently planning to publish their research openly soon after Clinton's address.¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> US government's </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (NSABB), a division of the National Institute of Health (NIH) </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">requested they not publish the details</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. The NSABB has no legal authority, and is only an advisory organization. The authors disagreed with the decision but agreed to adhere to it. All the authors had already received funding from the NIH and it might be presumed they would continue to receive funding... unless they did not follow the request.¶ After also being contacted by the NSABB, the two scientific journals, Nature and Science (two highly established journals), still planned to publish the two papers minus some of the details. The journal Science stated it would agree with the NSABB to refrain from publishing the details only if the government created a system whereby scientists worldwide could access the details if they had a legitimate need to know the information. However, at least one of the scientists had already presented his work at a major conference.SciAm-Albert¶ Indeed, the editor of Science Magazine said "“This finding shows it’s much easier to evolve this virus to an extremely dangerous state where it can be transmitted in aerosols [i.e., by coughing or sneezing] than anybody had recognized.” NYTimes-1220¶ In 2011, folks. Imagine, as this news spreads around, and as technology advances even further, what the world will be like in 2020. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Scientists are already saying it's not a matter of "if" but one of "when"</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.¶ These kinds of things cannot be kept secret. They will spread. Indeed, such news announcements stimulate interest. You can be sure that the news media will broadcast such gains very prominently, because it sells their service and makes them money, and can selfishly rationalize away the greater interests of our species.¶ Keeping this kind of research secret is difficult.¶ Pharmaceutical companies pay scientists for information and cooperation all the time. Others can pay scientists as well. There are still many scientists who rationalize their research as "not that dangerous" and/or is important for "defensive" purposes (kind've like other arms races) in order to promote their paid work, and when money is offered, many people can rationalize even more. It may not matter whether the money is offered by a pharmaceutical company or just a visiting consultant.¶ It could even be an undercover agents posing as pharmaceutical company staff, either a front company or faked, or even a plant into a legitimate company, university, computer center, or other organization. Indeed, what percentage of people really verify an identity on a business card, and check with the boss of the person?¶ Beyond that, people just talk, out of ego, curiosity, open scientific dialogue, or soliciting work. Graduate students and other young people often brag about their knowledge in casual conversations, or job interviews. It's easy to find out what research people are doing, and people and places can be targeted undercover.¶ University laboratories, offices, and homes are often not locked or secured well. If necessary, most locks can be picked easily by somebody trained in standard locksmith skills. Most trash isn't shredded. Hired thieves don't even need to know what they're stealing and can be told a ruse, but money talks. And many victim companies and laboratories would cover up a break-in or leak, out of fear it would tarnish their reputation and reduce funding, as well as threaten individual jobs and well being. This kind of espionage has been going on for decades by professionals, normally undetected. It's just becoming much more deadly and easier for an individual or a small group to do on a shoestring budget.¶ This is not news, but has been known for decades by a tiny percentage of people. What is lacking is broader recognition, acceptance, and interest in bioweapons.¶ PERMANENT was created in 1985 while I was working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in space "defense" systems. From also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">reviewing "nuclear, biological, and chemical</span> </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(NBC)" </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">weapons</span> </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">and other things at that time and before, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it was abundantly clear</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> to many of us </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">that a much greater threat to the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, actually to our species, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">was </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">biological weapons</span>.//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> In one way, it was good that nations were wasting their money and focus on </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, robotic, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> more </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">conventional weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, which </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">do not create existential risks</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, rather than on biological weapons.¶ While it was good experience to be working on advanced planning in the space program, there was very little interest in top government circles in space colonization, mainly just interest in the next money contracts, and overblown fear of the Soviets at that time was a successful formula for getting funding. Fear </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">extinct</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> -- before our own technological advances destroy us -- usually got a reinforced brushoff and often snide remarks. I mainly stuck to the engineering and scientific studies relevant to PERMANENT, with a general theme of space industrialization for sustainable profits, and space colonization following that.¶ The hottest topics were related to space tourism whereby we could go to space for selfish reasons for a vacation, such as private earth launchers. Advocates of private earth launch stated that we needed to get the cost of launch down via their private projects before space resources would become economical. (Baloney, as I discuss elsewhere on this website.)¶ When writing the PERMANENT book, I buried the biotechnology / supervirus / extinction threats in the Introduction (see, for example, page iii, under the section title Why. (That was published in 1998.)¶ At the turn of the millenium, I was actually out of money, due to spending my savings to write the PERMANENT book and website for outreach, as well as the expenses of ordering scientific publications and other important basic items, plus mailing copies of the book to wealthy people (at our expense, and we had to find them first) ... all while forgoing many opportunities to go out and make money instead for myself. While the website attracted huge numbers of visitors and a whole lot of traffic, not many people were willing to make any financial donation, and the overall support was very disappointing. My dot com bubble burst.¶ So, hardly able to survive, many years of working on PERMANENT website ground to a crawl, and the rest of PERMANENT was frozen for the most part, except for Sam Fraser's volunteer artistic overhaul in 2001. I had to go out and make money in the usual ordinary ways in the world.¶ Some time before this, in the year 2000, I moved the extinction risk and the responsibility of our generation up to the very top of the home page. "In all geologic time, our generation will be the one to get mankind off our lonely planetary cradle. It is a race against time, before biotechnology makes mankind extinct, or nanotechnology destroys Earth's biosphere, suddenly."¶ You can see a year 2000 version of this (before Sam's artistic overhaul) on the Way Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT.¶ Then came the year 2001.  </span>
====A port attack shuts down naval power==== 
**Watts 5** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span>__Connecting the continental United States to this zone are over 1,000 harbors and ports, 361 of which are cargo capable. Through these ports enter approximately 21,000 containers daily, representing ninety-five percent of the nation’s overseas cargo, including 100 percent of U.S. petroleum imports__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. 2 In addition to commerce, there are seventy-six million recreational boaters in the United States. Six million cruise ship passengers visit U.S. ports annually. </span>__In the strategic/military sense, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a substantial portion of U.S. national power relies on the sea</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, both in the form of traditional Navy Carrier Strike groups that deploy from ports in the continental United States </span>__and the subsequent ability to reinforce deployed forces overseas. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Without unimpeded access to the sea, the ability of the United States to project national power is extremely limited. Maritime infrastructure is crucial in maintaining this link</span> to the sea. From naval bases to commercial ports, maritime infrastructure is well developed__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> nationwide </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> is </span>__crucial to__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> both </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> economic sector and </span>__military strategy. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Maritime infrastructure is critical to the employment of national maritime power and as such is a logical</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (if not desirable) </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; mso-highlight: yellow;">target for acts of terrorism</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> by our enemies<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">. </span></span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; mso-highlight: yellow;">A successful attack against a port could incur serious</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> economic and </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; mso-highlight: yellow;">military damage</span>,__ <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">present an enemy with the opportunity to inflict mass casualties, and have serious long-term detrimental effects on our national economy. Maritime Critical Infrastructure Protection (MCIP) presents many challenges in an asymmetric environment. Previous models of maritime defense have focused on protecting ships from traditional naval attack; even when ports and supporting infrastructure have been considered targets, emphasis was on defense against a military threat. The Global War On Terror (GWOT) has created a number of heretofore unconsidered vulnerabilities in this traditional outlook. Many targets that would not be considered legitimate (economic, symbolic, etc.) in a conventional war must now be considered in strategic defensive planning. </span>__In conducting these attacks the unimpeded use of the sea is a force multiplier for an enemy dedicated to striking a wide range of potential targets. Possible threats from the sea are wide-ranging__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> and diverse, relying on a combination of asymmetric offensive tactics while exploiting the variety of the littoral. This asymmetric nature of GWOT requires a multi-agency approach to devise effective command and control for modern port defense. The Coast Guard and Navy have made important strides in this area by devising experimental Joint Harbor Operations Centers (JHOCs) as a component of maritime anti-terrorist force protection. The expansion of this concept into multi-agency maritime homeland security is a logical next step in the evolving problem of port security and defense. </span>__This is made evident by examining likely terrorist threats to ports and studying the lessons of the past that apply in this environment which can be used to expand the current command and control system to meet the new threat__ <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">NEW THREAT MATRIX: PORTS AS TARGETS The GWOT threat to ports is a relatively new element in the spectrum of naval warfare. This is largely due to the evolving nature of the shipping industry and the nation’s growing reliance on sea power. Historically, a nation’s maritime strength has been measured by the size and capability of its merchant fleet and Navy; attacks against a nation’s sea power meant the physical destruction of these ships. Ports, until quite recently, were composed of infrastructure that was relatively easy to replace or replicate, making them relatively low priority targets for an enemy dedicated to striking at maritime strength. This has changed in the modern era of containerization and the increased size and technical nature of ships. </span>__In modern times ports have become centers of highly technical, well-integrated infrastructure designed for the rapid loading and unloading of cargo, an evolution that has become highly complex in the era of containerization.__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Commercially efficient, </span>__port cargo operations are also highly dependent on networked operations, making the disruption of the process far simpler for a potential attacker__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Additionally, the complexity of this evolution, combined with the increasing size of seagoing merchant vessels (and warships), has greatly reduced the number of commercial ports available for use by global shipping. </span>__This has the duel effect of making major ports more important__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> economically and strategically </span>__while simultaneously making them more attractive targets for offensive action. The attractiveness of ports as targets for terrorists can be summarized as follows__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">: </span>__A. Economic Impact__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">: An unprecedented amount of trade — both imports and exports — relies on shipment by sea. </span>__A successful attack on maritime infrastructure would affect this trade in far greater proportion than the actual damage__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. It is likely that an attack on one port would have a cascade effect on others as increased security measures are applied nationwide. The recent impact of the London bombings can be seen as illustrative of this effect; although there was no indication of additional terrorist activity, security measures were increased at transportation hubs worldwide. Increasing security alerts at a train station is one thing; closing a huge economic entity such as a port is quite another. Delay of shipping in loading and offloading cargo is one of the most costly elements of the shipping process. </span>__We must also consider the impact to the shipping industry itself.__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> During the Persian Gulf re-flagging operations of the late 1980s, for example, analysis showed the greatest impact to the shipping of oil was not the damage to tankers inflicted by the warring Iraqis and Iranians (which was, in fact, minimal), but the increased insurance costs of operating in that area. 3 An attack on a U.S. port could have a similar, if not larger, effect. </span>__B. High visibility/High Casualties__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">: Ports are not isolated areas, but rather major centers of commerce, usually surrounded by large cities and economic centers. An attack on a port could be highly visible and potentially the scene of mass conflagration. As a result of urban development, most major ports are no longer confined to strictly industrial areas, but rather have become well-developed centers of commerce and entertainment, surrounded by built up waterside areas dedicated to tourism and recreation. Many of these facilities are located next to volatile maritime infrastructure (fuel tanks, docks, etc.) that could create mass conflagration if attacked through large explosive force. Sympathetic detonation, fires, and other catastrophic effects would certainly create mass casualties. </span>__C. Ease of attack: Commercial ports are not fortresses.__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The ocean itself presents a number of distinct advantages to a dedicated attacker, especially when employing maritime suicide terrorism or means to rapidly deliver large explosive force. Water is not only a tremendously efficient transport medium (allowing for rapid transit), but the large amount of legitimate commercial and recreational traffic in ports allows for an enemy to mask movements prior to an attack, making effective defense difficult. </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; mso-highlight: yellow;">Given the importance ofports</span> to our__<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> economy and </span>__military power, the potential for creating mass casualties, and the ease by which an enemy can attack, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a strong case can be made that ports will become a target for future terrorist attacks</span>__<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> If this is the case, we can apply the military planning process to meeting this threat. The first step in this process is looking for lessons learned that could be used in the current scenario: have we faced this threat before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience?  </span>
====Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Talor et al. 7</span></span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American ports</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, most notably Norfolk, Virginia and San Diego, California. Although the Navy has primary responsibility for protecting these ships, other port interests also have concerns about the possibility of terrorists damaging or sinking one of these vessels, particularly those that are nuclear-powered. Finally, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">17 ports have been designated “strategic” by the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportatio</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">n. 12 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">They are</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> so </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">designated because in the event of a large-scale military deployment, DOD would transport more than ninety-five percent of all equipment and supplies needed for military operations by sea. These ports are therefore vital to national security</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. If the strategic ports (or the ships carrying military supplies) were attacked, not only could massive civilian casualties result, but also valuable cargo and time could be lost, as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources.  </span>
====The U.S. navy’s missile defense makes escalation of war impossible==== 
**Carey 6**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;"> (</span>Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship, John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis)<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Ronald Reagan's vision that the United States would one day need a missile defense system was again validated last week when North Korea assembled and fueled a missile capable of delivering a nuclear weapon to American cities. On March 23, 1983, President Reagan announced from the Oval Office, "I've reached a decision which offers a new hope for our children in the 21st century." He explained his vision and his defense budget's inclusion of the genesis of this nation's missile defense effort. Liberals, and most of the media, derided the president's project as "Star Wars." Reagan's visionary effort, which included men like Edward Teller as an adviser, proposed to assemble "the best and brightest" minds of American technology to master what critics considered the impossible dream: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the in-flight destruction of ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> headed toward the United States from hostile shores. Now, again a grateful nation can pause to thank President Reagan. Just last week, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">these activities underscored the success of this long struggle to master the difficult technological challenges of missile defense</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">; challenges similar to those encountered by President Kennedy's decision to put men on the moon: * </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">A U.S. Navy AEGIS cruiser at-sea detected, tracked and destroyed a ballistic missile. In eight at-sea tests, the Navy has been successful </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">seven times</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. * A Japanese Navy AEGIS destroyer performed a surveillance and tracking exercise during the test, the first time any U.S. ally has taken part in a U.S. missile defense intercept test. Japan's indigenously produced destroyers combine U.S. and Japanese technology to provide the ballistic missile tracking system. * </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">A third AEGIS ship used in the test linked up with a land-based missile defense radar to evaluate the ship's ability to receive and use target data</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> from missile defense command centers. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">This vital technology</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, called "cueing," </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">allows</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> sensors to internet missile </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">tracking</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">data from one platform to the next. This technique will allow, for example, sensors in Japan to detect </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> North Korean </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">missile launch and initiate launch orders to interceptors at-sea</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">; or in the U.S. </span>
====Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Allison 12</span></span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf) 
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S. president (2010): “The single biggest threat to U.S. security, short-term, medium-term and long-term, is the possibility of a terrorist organization obtaining a nuclear weapon.” • Mohamed ElBaradei, former director general of the IAEA and winner of the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize (2009): “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Nuclear terrorism is the most serious danger the world is facing</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.” • John Brennan, U.S. assistant to the president for counterterrorism and homeland security (2010): “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The threat</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> of nuclear terrorism </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">is real</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, it is serious, it is growing, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and it constitutes</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> one of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the greatest threat</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">s </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> our national security and, indeed, to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">global security</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.” • Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state (2010): “The biggest nightmare that any of us have is that one of these terrorist member organizations within this syndicate of terror will get their hands on a weapon of mass destruction.” • Yukiya Amano, director general of the IAEA (2009): “The spread of nuclear weapons and nuclear terrorism is an increasing threat for the international community.” • Ban Ki-moon, U.N. secretary general (2007): “Nuclear terrorism is one of the most serious threats of our time.” • Dmitry Medvedev, former Russian president (2009): “One of the most dangerous threats…is that of nuclear components falling into the hands of terrorists.” • Anatoly Safonov, Special Representative of the Russian President for International Cooperation in the Fight Against Terrorism and Transnational Organized Crime (2007): “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">We have firm knowledge, which is </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">based on evidence and facts</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">, of steady interest and tasks assigned to terrorists to acquire</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in any form what is called nuclear weapons, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear components</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.” • Alexander Bortnikov, director of the Russian Federal Security Service (2010): “We have information which indicates that terrorists are continuing to try to get access to nuclear materials.” • Robert Gates, former U.S. secretary of defense (2008): “Every senior leader, when you’re asked what keeps you awake at night, it’s the thought of a terrorist ending up with a weapon of mass destruction, especially nuclear.” • Carl Levin, chairman of Senate Armed Services Committee (2011): “The risk of a terrorist organization getting their hands on and detonating an improvised nuclear device remains one of the gravest possible threats to the United States.” • Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, former director of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (2008): “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The 21st century will be defined</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> first </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">by the desire</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> and then by the ability </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">of non- states to procure or develop</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> crude </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">nuclear weapons</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Today, al Qaeda’s nuclear intent remains clear.” • Nikolai Patrushev former director of the Russian Federal Security Service (2007): “The continuing aspirations of terrorists to acquire radioactive materials and gain access to nuclear technologies are becoming one of the gravest threats.” • AlekseiSedov, head of Russia’s Federal Security Service’s Department for Counterterrorism (2009): “The aspirations of terrorists to acquire the capability to use new means and the most recent technologies, such as components of weapons of mass destruction, for committing large-scale acts of terrorism, pose a formidable threat to global stability.” • U.S. Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism (2008): “Unless the world community acts decisively and with greater urgency, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it is more likely than not a weapon of mass destruction will be used in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">by the end of 2013.”</span>//<span style="border: solid windowtext 2.25pt; mso-bidi-font-style: italic; padding: 0in;"> </span>
===Contention 2 is the Economy=== 
====Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy. Their generic defense doesn’t assume total economic collapse, just recession induced dips==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Flynn 3</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and distinguished members of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. I am the Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow for National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations where I recently directed the Independent Task Force on Homeland Security, co-chaired by former Senators Warren Rudman and Gary Hart. In June 2002, I retired as a Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard after 20 years of active duty service. I am honored to be appearing before you this morning on the issue of container security. On October 12, 2001, I had the opportunity to testify before this committee at its first post 9-11 hearing on homeland security. At that time, I asserted that “the economic and societal disruption created by the September 11 attacks has opened Pandora’s box.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> Future terrorists bent on challenging U.S. power </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">will draw inspiration from the seeming ease at which America could be attacked and they</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> will be encouraged by the mounting costs to the U.S. economy </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">and the public psyche associated with the ad-hoc efforts to restore security following that attack.” A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman and Gary Hart in preparing our report, “America: Still Unprepared—Still In Danger.” We observed that “nineteen men wielding box-cutters forced the United States to do to itself what no adversary could ever accomplish: a successful blockade of the U.S. economy.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> If a surprise terrorist attack were to happen tomorrow involving the sea</span></span>__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">,</span>__<span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">rail, or truck, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">transportation systems that carry millions of tons of trade to the U</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">nited</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> S</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">tates each day, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">t</span></span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">he response would</span> </span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">likely</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> be </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">the same—</span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">a self-imposed global embargo</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">.”</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> Based on that analysis, we identified as second of the six critical mandates that deserve the nation’s immediate attention: “Make trade security a global priority; the system for moving goods affordably and reliably around the world is ripe for exploitation and vulnerable to mass disruption by terrorists.” This is why the topic of today’s hearing is so important. The stakes are enormous.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">U.S. prosperity</span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">—</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">and much of its power</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">—<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">relies on its</span> </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">ready</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> access to global markets</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">. Both the scale and pace at which goods move between markets has exploded in recent years thanks in no small part to the invention and proliferation of the intermodal container. These ubiquitous boxes—most come in the 40’x8’x8’ size—have transformed the transfer of cargo from a truck, train, and ship into the transportation equivalent of connecting Lego blocks. The result has been to increasingly diminish the role of distance for a supplier or a consumer as a constraint in the world marketplace. Ninety percent of the world’s freight now moves in a container. Companies like Wal-Mart and General Motors move up to 30 tons of merchandise or parts across the vast Pacific Ocean from Asia to the West Coast for about $1600. The transatlantic trip runs just over a $1000—which makes the postage stamp seem a bit overpriced. But the system that underpins the incredibly efficient, reliable, and affordable movement of global freight has one glaring shortcoming in the post-9-11 world—it was built without credible safeguards to prevent it from being exploited or targeted by terrorists and criminals. Prior to September 11, 2001, virtually anyone in the world could arrange with an international shipper or carrier to have an empty intermodal container delivered to their home or workplace. They then could load it with tons of material, declare in only the most general terms what the contents were, “seal” it with a 50-cent lead tag, and send it on its way to any city and town in the United States. The job of transportation providers was to move the box as expeditiously as possible. Exercising any care to ensure that the integrity of a container’s contents was not compromised may have been a commercial practice, but it was not a requirement. The responsibility for making sure that goods loaded in a box were legitimate and authorized was shouldered almost exclusively by the importing jurisdiction. But as the volume of containerized cargo grew exponentially, the number of agents assigned to police that cargo stayed flat or even declined among most trading nations. The rule of thumb in the inspection business is that it takes five agents three hours to conduct a thorough physical examination of a single full intermodal container. Last year nearly 20 million containers washed across America’s borders via a ship, train, and truck. Frontline agencies had only enough inspectors and equipment to examine between 1-2 percent of that cargo. Thus, for would-be terrorists, the global intermodal container system that is responsible for moving the overwhelming majority of the world’s freight satisfies the age-old criteria of opportunity and motive. “Opportunity” flows from (1) the almost complete absence of any security oversight in the loading and transporting of a box from its point of origin to its final destination, and (2) the fact that growing volume and velocity at which containers move around the planet create a daunting “needle-in-the-haystack” problem for inspectors. “Motive” is derived from the role that the container now plays in underpinning global supply chains and the likely response by the U.S. government to an attack involving a container.Based on statements by the key officials at U.S. Customs, the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the Department of Transportation, should a container be used as a “poor man’s missile,” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">the shipment of all containerized cargo into our ports and across our borders </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">would be halted</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">. </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">As a consequence</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">, <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a modest investment by a terrorist could </span></span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">yield billions of dollars in losses to the U.S. economy</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> by shutting down</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">—even temporarily—the system that moves “just-in-time” shipments of parts and goods. Given the current state of container security, it is hard to imagine how a post-event lock-down on container shipments could be either prevented or short-lived. One thing we should have learned from the 9-11 attacks involving passenger airliners, the follow-on anthrax attacks, and even last fall Washington sniper spree is that terrorist incidents pose a special challenge for public officials. In the case of most disasters, the reaction by the general public is almost always to assume the event is an isolated one. Even if the post-mortem provides evidence of a systemic vulnerability, it often takes a good deal of effort to mobilize a public policy response to redress it. But just the opposite happens in the event of a terrorist attack—especially one involving catastrophic consequences. When these attacks take place, the assumption by the general public is almost always to presume a general vulnerability unless there is proof to the contrary. Government officials have to confront head-on this loss of public confidence by ahnonng evidence that they have a credible means to manage the risk highlighted by the terrorist incident. In the interim as recent events have shown, people will refuse to fly, open their mail, or even leave their homes. If a terrorist were to use a container as a weapon-delivery devise, the easiest choice would be high-explosives such as those used in the attack on the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. Some form of chemical weapon, perhaps even involving hazardous materials, is another likely scenario. A bio-weapon is a less attractive choice for a terrorist because of the challenge of dispersing the agent in a sufficiently concentrated form beyond the area where the explosive devise goes off. A “dirty bomb” is the more likely threat vs. a nuclear weapon, but all these scenarios are conceivable since the choice of a weapon would not be constrained by any security measures currently in place in our seaports or within the intermodal transportation industry. This is why a terrorist attack involving a cargo container could cause such profound economic disruption.An incident triggered by even a conventional weapon going off in a box could result in a substantial loss of life</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">.</span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;"> In the immediate aftermath, the general public will want reassurance that one of the many other thousands of containers arriving on any given day will not pose a similar risk. The President of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and other keys officials responsible for the security of the nation would have to stand before a traumatized and likely skeptical American people and outline the measures they have in place to prevent another such attack. In the absence of a convincing security framework to manage the risk of another incident,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-color: yellow; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"> the public would likely insist that all containerized cargo </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">be stopped</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;">until </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">adequate</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> safeguards are in place<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span> </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Even with the most focused effort, constructing that framework from scratch </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">could take</span> </span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">months—even</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 12.0pt;"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">years</span>. </span></span><span style="font-family: "Calibri","sans-serif"; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Yet, within three weeks, the entire worldwide intermodal transportation industry would effectively be brought to its knees—as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade. </span></span>
====A port attack spills over to the global economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman 10 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(From the IBM Center for the Business of Government, David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe, Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Scenario Three: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Direct Attack on a U.S. </span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> Seaport</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> finally, terrorists could also attack u.s. seaports </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> directly. Such an attack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">would result in loss of lives, </span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> property, and business; affect the operations of harbors and the transportation infrastructure</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(bridges, </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> railroads, and highwazzzzzzys) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">within and beyond the port</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> limits; </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">and </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">disrupt the free flow of trade.</span>//<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> for instance, imagine the consequences of a successful attack on twin ports of Los Angeles and long </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Beach. these two ports handle percent of the </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> total container traffic flowing in and out of the </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> united states.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> If a terrorist attack shut down that </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> traffic, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">it would have an immediate spillover effect</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> causing gridlock </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">in</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Hong Kong, Singapore, </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Rotterdam, and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">every</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> other </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">major trading port reliant on the </span></span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">world’s biggest economy</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">.Key U.S. ¶ imports, starting with oil, would become scarce</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> almost </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">immediately.</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Factories would become idle </span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> for lack of raw materials or spare parts.</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Places like </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Hawaii, which depend on shipping for almost every </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> consumer need, would quickly run out of food. </span>
====Economic decline causes war==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Royal 10</span></span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Political science </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> of economic decline and the security </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and defence behaviour of interdependent states.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (see also Gilpin. 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">increasing the risk of miscalculation</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">if the expectations of future trade decline</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, particularly for difficult [end page 213] to replace items such as energy resources, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the likelihood for conflict increases</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write,</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">“Diversionary theory" suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. [end page 214] Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views. </span>
====New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence==== 
**Palac-McMiken 5**(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">counter-terrorism measures</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> can also </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">present</span> </span>an opportunity to find and agree on measures that combine the imperative to fight terrorism with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the possibility of increased efficiency in the system</span>.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> These </span>efficiency gains are maximised<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> when all nations adopt them and, in some cases, </span>when they are accompanied by domestic policy reforms.¶ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The introduction of new security measures creates an opportunity to review long-established practices and regulations in the transport sector. Domestic policy reforms aimed at streamlining regulations and removing anticompetitive practices in the international transport sector can strengthen the competitive position of an economy.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶ </span>Many of the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">new security measures</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> being introduced </span>to combat the threat from terrorism also <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">have trade facilitation benefits</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> separate from and additional to their counter-terrorism task; that is, </span>they<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">enhance trade efficiency and</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> thereby </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">promote economic growth</span>.</span>Security driven modernisation can bring about<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> improvements in international transport, </span>which will<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> benefit all parties in the trade supply chain.</span>Turnaround times may be shortened, customs clearance accelerated, redundant data entry avoided, and theft and fraud reduced.Maritime theft and fraud is estimated to cost between US$30–$50 billion a year (Economic Analytical Unit 2003). These <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">savings</span> </span>could<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> partially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">offset the cost of investment in security</span> </span>measures. ¶ The prospect of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">reducing threats through technolog</span>y</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">-intensive customs inspections </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">can be viewedas</span> </span>an investment in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">greater trade efficiency</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Automated </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">technology</span></span>—such as bar codes, wireless communications, radio frequency ID tags, tamper-proof seals for containers with global positioning technology and other electronic measures—<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">could accelerate global trade while improving security</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Reddy 2002). Advance passenger and goods information systems and other electronic identification techniques at ports will speed up passenger and goods movements (over time lowering business costs) and provide increased security at the border. By </span>simplifying the detection of high-risk consignments, the advance electronic transmission of customs data before the goods are shipped will facilitate trade (World Customs Organization 2003).¶ Standardising and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">introducing </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">compatible electronic manifests </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">systems at</span> all <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">portswill save time and reduce costs through quicker processing of cargo</span>, </span>faster vessel turnaround, a more consistent approach to cargo and vessel data reporting, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">increased confidence in the reporting system and more timely responses for importers and expor</span>t</span>ers<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> All these </span>benefits may lower freight and handling costs, reduce final prices of traded goods and increase demand.¶ Withinternational trade expanding rapidly and increasingly relying on just-in-time delivery, efficient global logistics systems are essential<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Expenditure on new logistics systems representsan investment that will deliver considerable efficiency returns.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Enhanced security, by bringing greater certainty and stability to the global economy, should encourage investor, business and consumer confidence</span>.<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span></span>Using the above framework,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>potential medium to long-term<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> economic costs and benefits of counter-terrorism measures can be illustratedthrough </span>a variety of general equilibrium<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> model simulations</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.1 In modelling, it is always difficult to estimate precisely the extent and duration of shocks arising from an event, such as the decline in productivity growth caused by terrorism. Thus, modelling simulation results should be interpreted with caution. It should also be remembered that modelling of a particular scenario is simply for the purpose of illustration. </span>
====Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span></span> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04) 
__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The loss of investor</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">and creditor</span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">confidence</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, both at home and abroad, </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">may cause investors</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">and creditors</span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to reallocate funds away from dollar-based investments, causing</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">a depreciation of the exchange rate, and to demand</span> __sharply <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">higher interest rates on</span>__ U.S. __<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">government debt;The increase</span>__ of interest rates__,__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">depreciation of the exchange rate,</span> and decline in confidence<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> can reduce stock prices and household wealth, </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">raise the costs of financing to business, and reduce private-sector</span>__ domestic __<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">spending</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">; The disruptions to financial markets may impede the intermediation between lenders and borrowers that is vital to modern economies, as long-maturity credit markets witness potentially substantial increases in interest rates and become relatively illiquid, and the reduction in asset prices adversely affects the balance sheets of banks and other financial intermediaries</span>__; **<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">These</span>**__ various effects can feed on each other to **__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">create a</span>__** mutually reinforcing **__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">cycle</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">; for example, </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">increased interest rates and diminished economic activity may</span> further <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">worsen the fiscal imbalance, which</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> can then </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">cause a further loss of confidence and</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">potentially</span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">spark</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> another round of </span>**__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">negative feedback effects</span>__**__.__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span>

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 
====Visualization and imaging technology solves==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">PPIC 6</span></span> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶ </span>Balancing Security and Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">As documentation cannot be taken as trustworthy, and as it is quite</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> impossible to open each container, unpack it, and look inside, technology—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to peer, poke, and sniff at the contents—becomes the imperative instrument of defense</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, even if it does not yet quite exist.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Detection technologies can be put in two places: in-port or in-box. A</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> third kind of technology is necessary for both: information systems to</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> relay, organize, and sift through all the data coming in from advance</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> notice manifests and from in-box sensors once installed and to analyze</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> the data against huge databases of possibly pertinent information. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">This</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> kind of homeland security database technology, data-mining, is becoming a serious “business opportunity,</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">” as well as the subject of controversy and privacy problems (which, for containers, are significantly</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> less than, say, for airline passengers). Its ongoing development and</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> deployment is taken as a given in this chapter.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Non-invasive inspection technologies</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, roughly speaking, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">either look into the box or sniff it, without opening it.</span> <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Visualization or imaging technologies peer into the box using x-rays or gamma rays to construct an image of the contents</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">; these images, like their medical counterparts,</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> can be more sophisticated than a simple black and white photo. Sniffers</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> seek out telltale traces of chemicals or isotopes. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Visualization technologies are active in that they shoot</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> something (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">x-rays) into the box</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Sniffers, including critically, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">radiation detectors, can be either</span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">¶</span><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;"> passive</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">—just sensing emitted isotopes—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">or active</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">—shooting something</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> into the box to prod emissions, which are then detected.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">  </span>

**And the USFG is key - states require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions** 
**Puentes 11 – Director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former director of infrastructure at the intelligent transportation society of America, masters degree in urban planning, May 23, 2011 “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes; Brookings, Accessed June 19 2012) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The country needs to become more export-oriented for the future health of the economy. But </span>__right now there's no way to make sure that the nation's ports__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, border crossings and roadways </span>__are set up to accomplish that goal.__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">For one thing, </span>__there's far too little attention paid to making sure that traffic at border crossings moves swiftly__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Our crossings into Mexico and Canada are routinely clogged, interrupting the flow of trade. Consider the challenges facing Detroit—part of the largest binational trading corridor on the planet, linking the U.S. and Canadian auto industries and other sectors with highly integrated, transport-dependent, "just in time" supply chains and their smaller, more frequent shipments. Canada is our nation's largest trading partner, and Detroit's Ambassador Bridge is the No. 1 border point for commerce between the two countries. It's a crucial corridor—but there are relatively few border crossings because of the Great Lakes. So traffic piles up at bridges and tunnels, with freight competing with passenger cars to get through tightened security checkpoints. Trucks also clog the roads of Detroit as they shuttle freight between ports and large distribution centers and warehouses. </span>__<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The export problem isn't just a matter of insufficient infrastructure. States and cities routinely compete against one another for shipping activity instead of coming up with joint efforts that might benefit all the terminals in the region. Without an overall strategy, there's a duplication of efforts and a duplication of subsidies that hurts the economy</span>, given scarce resources. <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Collaboration is needed—between the federal government, states, metro areas, freight industry and shippers</span>. We need to come up with a comprehensive plan__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that identifies the best ways to help the flow of freight. </span>__The plan might identify the most important corridors for freight, for instance, and then target investments to improve safety, relieve bottlenecks and provide better access to ports__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. That might mean new roads leading to ports or, in some instances, truck-only lanes on existing roads. Similarly, the U.S., Canada, and Mexico should also come together to study infrastructure needs at the land borders and along the corridors that link the two borders together. For now, </span>__some states are coming up with innovative solutions on their own—solutions that could and should become widespread under a national transportation policy__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Back in Detroit, for instance, the national governments of the U.S. and Canada, along with lawmakers in Michigan and Ontario, are trying to build a new bridge across the Detroit River to help keep trade flowing—a plan that's awaiting final legislative approval. Meanwhile, the World Trade Bridge in Laredo, Texas, has introduced tags for electronic toll collection to speed traffic and reduce wait times. Then, of course, </span>__there's the issue of competition between ports for shipping business. One way to ease that problem: Tell states their ports won't get any federal aid unless they work with their neighbors to boost business in the whole region__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. And </span>__those agreements need to be carefully structured and policed to make sure they don't collapse—which happens all too easily__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. </span>__Consider the current mess involving__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Jasper Ocean Terminal on the Savannah River, </span>__the border between South Carolina and Georgia. In 2007, the two states agreed to develop the terminal together__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, and create a special entity to own and operate it. That's good. But what came later wasn't. </span>__After the governors who signed the deal left office, the terminal became a point of contention between the states.__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> What happened</span>__? Georgia decided it wanted to deepen another one of its own harbors, a move that South Carolina sees as a challenge to its own facilities.__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">So, South </span>__Carolina has stopped funding the Jasper facility unless the Georgia dredging plan is scrapped__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. Now, I ask you: How does any of this help get us closer to our national goals?</span> 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">T-bill thumps disproves your links </span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Laing 9/27 (</span></span>Keith, national political journalist who works for The Hill, covers transportation policy in Congress and manages the paper’s Transportation Report blog, "LaHood: 'New transportation era' begins Monday with highway bill implementation", [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/highways-bridges-and-roads/258969-lahood-dot-gearing-up-for-new-transportation-era-with-highway-bill-implementation]]) 
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Transportation Secretary Ray </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">LaHood said</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Thursday </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">a "new transportation era" will begin next week with the implementation of the $105 billion transportation bil</span>l</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that was passed by lawmakers earlier this year. LaHood said in a </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[@http://fastlane.dot.gov/2012/09/map-21-era-begins.html#.UGRnJXCRg7A|blog post]]</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> on the Department of Transportation's website that the DOT was gearing up because </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">many of the provisions</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in the new law, which became the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">first new road and transit spending</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> approved by lawmakers since 2005 in June, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">are scheduled to take effect</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">on </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Monday. LaHood said the provisions</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that begin on Oct. 1 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">will "really change the transportation status quo</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">." "This Monday, October 1st, those changes go into effect, and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">we are working hard to make sure our state and local transportation partners are aware of the change</span>s</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> and are ready to join us in hitting the ground running," LaHood wrote. LaHood touted </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> getting ready to take place </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">to the</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">TIFIA</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">) loan program, as well as the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">National Highway PerformanceProgram</span></span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Surface Transportation Program and</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Highway Safety Improvement Program</span></span><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">.</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Among the many moving parts of the transportation bill, which was dubbed Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21), was an increasing in funding for the TIFIA program and a provision allowing the loans to be used for almost half the construction of new transportation projects. LaHood said DOT was providing documents this week to "clarify MAP-21’s innovative project delivery methods and important changes to funding programs." "Additional information addresses the many changes in the new law from MAP-21’s predecessor," he added in a reference to the 2005 Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) bill, which expired in 2009 and was temporarily extended until 2012. There hasn't been much talk about the forthcoming highway bill in political campaigns this year, though one incumbent running for reelection, Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown (R) has touted his vote for the measure. </span>
====Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Fox News 8/1</span></span> (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12) 
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Western </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">strikes onAl Qaeda have shown progress</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> in taking out the terror group's core in Pakistan, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">but affiliates still are increasing "operational capabilities,"</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> the State Department said in releasing its annual Country Reports on Terrorism.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Highlights of the 2011 report include the death of Usama bin Laden and Al Qaeda's relative lack of influence on the so-called Arab Spring revolutions in the Middle East, the State Department's top counterterrorism official, Daniel Benjamin, said Tuesday.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> He warned, however, that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the United States has "no illusions" that further progress against terrorism will be easy or quick</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, and </span>//<span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">certain Al Qaeda affiliates remain a troubling threat</span>//<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">The report’s narrative notes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, among other things, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the continued weakening of the Al Qaeda core in Pakistan, but it also demonstrates that the Al Qaeda affiliates, while also suffering losses, increased their overall operational ability</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">," Benjamin said. "And this is particularly true of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "So </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">for all the counterterrorism successes that we’ve seen against Al Qaeda and its affiliates, the group and violent extremist ideology and rhetoric continue to spread in</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> some parts of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">the world</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The report also notes the threat from other terror groups, including the Lebanese-based Hezbollah, which is "engaging in their most active and aggressive campaigns since the 1990s," Benjamin said. He also noting that Iran "remains the pre-eminent state sponsor of terrorism in the world."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The report counted more than 10,000 terrorists attacks in 70 countries in 2011, which resulted in more than 12,500 deaths, though that measurement is down from 2010. The worst regions for terrorist attacks are South Asia and the Near East, and most of the victims are Muslim.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> In fact, Benjamin noted that 64 percent of all attacks worldwide occurred in just three countries, Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan, though the numbers logged in the first two declined from 2010 to 2011.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> The rise of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is one of the most alarming trends in terrorism.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> "That’s a group that benefited from the long political transition, the turmoil that was going on in Yemen," Benjamin said. "And I’m optimistic because in President Hadi we have a very committed, very reliable partner now. ... So while the group did exploit that period of uncertainty, we think the trend lines are going in the right direction now in Yemen."</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> He also said officials think the number of Al Qaeda fighters participating in the bloodshed in Syria remains rather small, though there remains the risk of unaffiliated foreign fighters traveling to the country and posing the threat of greater violence. </span>

====It’s only a matter of time before an attack occurs – the only question is when and where==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Flynn 6</span></span>(Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards” 3/9/2006, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]]) <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">When it comes to port security, the buck essentially stops outside Washington, DC. Since seaports in the United States are locally run operations where port authorities typically play the role of landlord, issuing long-term leases to private companies; it falls largely to those companies to provide for the security of the property they lease. In the case of Los Angeles, this translates into the security of 7500 acres of facilities that run along 49 miles of waterfront, being provided for by minimum-wage private security guards, and a tiny port police force of under 100 officers. The situation in Long Beach is even worse with only 12 full-time police officers assigned to its 3000 acres of facilities and a small cadre of private guards provided by the port authority and its tenants. The command and control equipment to support a new joint operations center for the few local, state, and federal law enforcement authorities that are assigned to the port will not be in place until 2008. Up to 11,000 independent truck operators have access to the port terminals yet there still is no credentialing system in place to confirm the backgrounds of the drivers. West Coast terminal operators have no way of identifying who is in their facilities at any given moment. In the four years since September 11, 2001, the two cities have received less than $40 million in federal grants to improve the port’s physical security measures. That amount is equivalent to what American taxpayers spend in a single day on domestic airport security. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the fallout from a terrorist attack on any one of the nation’s major</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> commercial </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">seaports would hardly be a local matter.</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> For instance, should al Qaeda or one of its imitator organizations succeed in sinking a large ship in the Long Beach channel, the auto-dependent southern California will literally run out of gas within two weeks. This is because, as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita highlighted, US petroleum refineries are operating at full throttle and their products are consumed almost as quickly as they are made. If the crude oil shipments stop, so too do the refineries and there is no excess capacity or refined fuels to cope with a long term disruption. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the most serious consequence of a major terrorist attack on America’s waterfront is if it involved a w</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">eapon of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">m</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">ass </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">d</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">estruction </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">smuggled into</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> one of the over nine million 40’ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cargo containers</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> that entered US seaports in 2005. The September 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington, the March 11, 2004 attacks on Madrid, and the July 7, 2005 attacks on London highlight </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that transport systems have become</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> among </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the most favored targets for terrorist organizations.Cargo</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> containers have long been exploited to smuggle narcotics, migrants, and stolen property including luxury automobiles. Their </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">vulnerability is highlighted by the billions of dollars in cargo losses derived from theft each year</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">. A typical cargo container that is shipped from Asia will pass through over a dozen transportation waypoints before it is loaded on a ship destined for the United States. Most are “secured” only with a fifty-cent lead seal passed through the pad-eyes on the container doors. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It is just a question of time before terrorists with</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> potentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more destructive weapons breach</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> the superficial </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">security</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> measures that have been put in place to protect the ports, the ships, and the millions of intermodal containers that link global producers to consumers. Should that breach involve a “dirty bomb,” the United States and other states will likely raise the port security alert system to its highest level while investigators sort out what happened and establish whether or not a follow-on attack is likely. Multiple port closures in the United States and elsewhere would quickly throw this system into chaos. Container ships already destined for the United States would be stuck in anchorages unable to unload their cargo. Ships would be delayed in overseas loading ports as the maritime industry and their customers try to sort out how to redirect cargo. Marine terminals would have to close their gates to all incoming containers since they would have no place to store them. Trucks and trains would be stuck outside the terminal with no place to go. If they are carrying perishable goods, the cargo would perish. Also, the trucks and trains would not be able to re-circulate to pick up new shipments until they could get rid of the old ones. Goods for export would pile at factory loading docks with no place to go. Imports to support “just-in-time” deliveries would be no shows and soon factories would be idled and retailers’ shelves would go bare. In short, a catastrophic terrorist event involving the intermodal transportation system could well lead to unprecedented disruption to the global trade system. In economic terms, the costs associated with managing the attack’s aftermath will substantially dwarf the actual destruction from the terrorist event itself. Those costs will be borne internationally which is why transportation and trade security must be not only a U.S. Homeland Security priority, but an urgent global priority. As grave as this threat is, in our fifth year since the 9/11 attacks, there still are no minimum federal standards for access control, perimeter control, electronic surveillance, guards, and communications. State and local port authorities have not been able to make any significant progress towards improving the state of security within their ports. This is largely because ports face a competitive environment where they must make significant capital investments to improve the commercial operations in order to retain or attract shipping lines. It they divert funds away from capital improvements to pay for added security they may face a decline in vessel traffic that reduces their revenues. If they try to pass along increased security costs to their private tenets, those tenets may decide to move to a lower cost neighboring port. In short, in the absence of a level national playing field, U.S. port authorities have been reluctant to make major new investments in security.  </span>
</span>