**Cites: nk.nikhilkrishnan@gmail.com**
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Personal Infrastructure== 
====Contention 1: Ethics==== 
Transportation infrastructure facilitates fluid mobility, which is key to changing current ethical relationships.
__**Ankor**__, Ph.D. in Tourism, __**9**__ – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, //Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel//, pp. 172-175, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)
Section 3 Encountering Difference... ...travel and tourism experience

Transportation infrastructure is key to a truly ethical relation to the Other -- nihilism is a byproduct -- the impact is poverty and racism. Psychoanalytic perspectives shield us from Other Others.
__**Baum**__, Professor of Ethics @ Maryland, __**11**__ (Howell, Prof. @ U. of Maryland, “Planning and the problem of evil” Planning Theory, Vol. 10.2, pp. 117-119)
It is not news that men and women... ...other social evils warrants the effort

Encountering the Other as irreducible difference and acknowledging responsibility produces one's own identity or subjectivity.
__**Ankor**__, Ph.D. in Tourism, __**9**__ – Ph.D. thesis for the Graduate School of the University of Technology in Sydney (Jo, BA in Cultural Tourism, December 2009, //Pleasure and Dread: The Paradox of Travel//, pp. 132-134, http://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/handle/2100/1178/02Whole.pdf?sequence=2)
Levinas' philosophy of the encounter... ...the other through assumptions of recognition

The identity politics revealed in the 1AC's ethical project exposes us to status quo nihilism. By rejecting the singularity of ethics, the aff opens up creative thinking lanes to pursue unique knowledge production. Without this, moral absolutism continues, and all creatures are brutalized.
__**Badiou**__, Professor of Philosophy @ École Normale, __**98**__(Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil, 14-16)
Every collective will to the Good... ...to die in the shantytowns of Kinshasa

1AC positivist ideology comes first -- we must establish an ethical relation to ourselves before we decide on orienting ourselves to the Other.
__**Milchman and Rosenberg**__, Ph.D. in Political Science, __**5**__ (Alan and Alan, Both @ Queens College, Review Essay: Michel Foucault: Crises and Problemizations, The Review of Politics vol67 no2, JSTOR)
But speaking truth to power... ...respond to the crises that confront us today

Claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic ethical structure that makes warfare inevitable.
__**Odysseus**__, Ph.D. in International Relations, __**3**__ Louiza Odysseus (PhD International Relations) March 2003 “Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf
A third objection, still, has to do with... ...finally consumed without the remainder

Ethics answers the question of what to do and all questions are always already one of ethics.
__**Introna**__, Professor of Ethics @ Lancaster, __**9**__ (Lucas D., Professor of Organization, Technology, and Ethics @ Lancaster University, //Theory, Culture, & Society//, Vol. 26, No. 4, 2009, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” Pg. 25-46)
This sort of ethics of hybrids... ...things to be rendered possible at all

The role of the ballot must embrace a personal decision to go beyond current norms.
__**Derrida**__, Director of Studies @ École Normale __**5**__, Jacques, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 2005,, Paper Machine p. 128-129
It doesn't replace it... ...is possible in any other way

The aff is a fluid and conditional affirmation. Deconstruction means we can solve negative implications prior to them occurring. Vote affirmative to embrace your own humanity by morphing value systems.
__**Derrida**__, Director of Studies @ École Normale __**5**__, Jacques, Directeur d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris, and Professor of Philosophy, French and Comparative Literature at the University of California, Irvine, 2005,, Paper Machine p. 34-36
For this "someone in me"... ..."I the undersigned, so-and-so"

====Contention 2: Life==== 
This ethical relationship to the Other allows us to improve 'bare life'. Only 'bare life' is ontologically situated.
__**Rancière**__, Professor of Philosophy @ Paris, __**4**__(Jacques, professor of philosophy at the University of Paris VIII, The South Atlantic Quarterly, Vol. 103, no. 2/3, p. 301-02)
In such a way, the correlation... ...which amounts to a tautology

'Bare life' perpetuates objectivity -- aff opens up creative lines of flight to establish baseline happiness. The political sphere becomes de-entreched absent this positivist thought.
__**Agamben**__, Professor of Philosophy @ Paris, __**98**__ (Giorgio, prof of philosophy at university of Verona, Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life, pg. 121-123)
While the state in decline lets its empty... ...sovereignty and right no longer have any hold

An external impact is fascism and totalitarianism -- citizenship is founded on the primacy of 'bare life', which collapses into a zone of indistinction.
__**Agamben**__, Professor of Philosophy @ Paris, __**98**__ (Giorgio, prof of philosophy at university of Verona, Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life, pg. 121-123)
The contiguity between mass democracy... ...have to learn to recognize

====Contention 3: Death==== 
Opening our minds to death allows a transcendence of the tyranny of line and creates conditions for the ultimate erosion of all borders and conceptions of the natural. The binary logic of a life/death paradigm perpetuates all structural impacts.
Mitchell __**Heisman**__(Suicide Practitioner @ University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) __**10**__
There is a very popular opinion... ...not dictate a bias towards life

Obsession with death is necrophilia -- an obsession with control and body counts that makes life meaningless while opening us up to death opportunities -- supercharges 'bare life'.
__**Fromm**__, Ph.D. in Sociology, __**64**__ (Erich, Ph.D. in sociology from Heidelberg in 1922, psychology prof at MSU in the 60’s, “Creators and Destroyers”, The Saturday Review, New York (04. January 1964), pp. 22-25)
People are aware of the possibility... ...not cease the struggle against necrophilia

Death is not an impact -- quantum physics prove transcendence.
__**Lanza**__, M.D. in Cell Biology, __**9**__(Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'", http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html)
Many of us fear death... ...energy transcend from one world to the other

Current science disproves Cartesian dualism and organic materialism through the multiverse theory -- conciousness escapes the destruction of the body and mind.
__**Lanza and Berman**__, M.D. in Cell Biology & Masters in Astronomy, __**9**__ – Robert Lanza. MD, is considered one of the leading cell scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Bob Berman is an author and the most widely read astronomer in the world, he is director of the Storm King Observatory in Cornwall, New York, and of the Overlook Observatory in Woodstock, New York, he is an adjunct professor of astronomy at Marymount Manhattan College. Biocentrism. 2009. p. 33-37
Many of the later chapters... ...making it difficult to grasp with logic alone

Inevitability -- the infinite cycle of time means when extinction happened is irrelevant.
__**Lanza**__, M.D. in Cell Biology, __**10**__ (Robert, MD scientist and theoretician, Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 12/8/09, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/is-death-the-end-new-expe_b_774814.html)
When I was young... ...where it is, is day; where it was, is night."

Death is an illusion -- constraining ourselves to the physical body is bad -- it erases the Other encounter with beauty and infinite bliss that we create.
__**Lanza**__, M.D. in Cell Biology,__**11**__professor at Wake Forest, 11/19/11 – considered one of the leading cell scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine (Robert, Is Death an Illusion? Evidence Suggests Death Isn’t the End, http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/biocentrism/201111/is-death-illusion-evidence-suggests-death-isn-t-the-end)
New evidence continues to suggest... ...returns to bloom in the multiverse

**Advocacy: My partner and I substantially increase investment in our transportation infrastructure.**

==1AC - Bike Infrastructure== 
====Contention 1: Bike Activism==== 
Bicycling cannot emerge as an alternative as long as federal policies and governmental surveillance discriminate and control industries against bikes.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Wyden 6</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Democratic United States Senator from Oregon, 2006 [Ron, “Bicycle Commuters Benefits Act – Statement for Introduction,” April 24, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.bikesbelong.org/node/910</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">I know that I am speaking for many people... ...to help them pay for the costs of riding their bikes</span>

The government, military, and law enforcement have been stepping up its use of domestic surveillance, creating the ultimate Panopticon in the sky above.
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">ACLU 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(The American Civil Liberties Union, “ACLU Report on Domestic Drones Finds Need for New Privacy Protections” http://www.aclu.org/technology-and-liberty/aclu-report-domestic-drones-finds-need-new-privacy-protections December 15, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A report release today by the... ...with the Speech, Privacy & Technology Project</span>

This apparatus of force and violence towards a “surveillant subject” encompasses all other civilian surveillance systems and creates a distance that ensures control.
<span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Harris 7</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, C. V. , -05-23 "Google Earth® and the Omniscient Gaze" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Communication Association, TBA, San Francisco, CA Online <PDF>. 2010-06-04 from http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p172524_index.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military imagery intelligence systems... ...what is being observed</span>

Modern bicycle policy constitutes a radical monopoly that only a social movement can fix.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Illich 78</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ivan, philosopher, priest, activist, professor @ Penn St. and Univ. of Bremen, 1978 [“Energy and Equity” in Toward a History of Needs. Online: http://www.cogsci.ed.ac.uk/~ira/ illich/texts/energy_and_equity/energy_and_equity.html. Edited for sexist language.]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The harm done by contemporary... ...reshaped for the sake of industrial outputs</span>

Biketivism politicizes the bicycle as a vehicle for social movements producing change.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Furness 5</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. in Communication at the University of Pittsburgh, 2005 [Zachary Mooradian, Put the Fun Between Your Legs: The Politics and Counterculture of the Bicycle, Doctoral Thesis. pp. 48-52]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Through a dialectical process of action... ...pranks that sustained political initiatives</span>

This round is the process of forming social movements that can actively work to guide federal policy in a positive direction. Strategic use of federal policy is vital to adopting the aff.
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Batterbury 3</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Simon, assistant professor in the Department of Geography and Regional Development at the University of Arizona “Environmental Activism and Social Networks: Campaigning for Bicycles and Alternative Transport in West London” The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 2003 590: 150)</span>
The ultimate aim of... ...and citizens' group work together to make it so

**Thus a plan:** **The United States federal government should substantially increase its bicycling transportation infrastructure investment in order to politicize the bicycle.**

Status quo communicative rationality is the flawed method of planning that the modern Panopticonic state imposes. Through a "rationalized" form of planning with three forms of space, it unites the body populace for an uptake of more efficient control.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Law-Yone 7</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Hubert, Prof. of Israel Institute of Technology, “Another planning theory? Rewriting the meta-narrative” Planning Theory, Vol. 6.3, pp. 319-321)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The absent materiality of planning... ...what can be (an ethical space)</span>

Interrogating the flawed historical rationalities of bicycles in the context of planning creates space in planning discourse for democratic and egalitarian planning. Bicycles become the solvency mechanism for planning solutions.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Richardson 1</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Tim, Department of Town and Regional Planning, The University of Shefield, “The Pendulum Swings Again: In Search of New Transport Rationalities” The Town Planning Review, Vol. 72.3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Transport policy making remains essentially... ...space and integrating them into policy</span>

====Contention 2: Biopower==== 
We link local space and the broader city perspective, so we can change the way that planning processes take place. That's key to democratic and egalitarian city-spaces and solves biopower.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hanssen & Saglie 10</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(GRO SANDKJAER and INGER-LISE, Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research, “Cognitive Closure in Urban Planning” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 11.4, pp. 515-517)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communicative planning theory has for a... ...legitimacy of local democracy might be undermined</span>

Failure slides into the dark slide of biopolitics, perpetuating the worst forms of global violence and genocide.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Marks 8</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Assoc. Prof. in French, University of Nottingham, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although biopower in this sense... ...of the entire German population</span>

Biopower is the root cause of all violent acts.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Elden 2</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">– lecturer in politics at the University of Warwick, England. (Stuart, boundary 2 29.1 (2002) 125-151, “The War of Races and the Constitution of the State: Foucault's «Il faut défendre la société» and the Politics of Calculation,” Project Muse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reverse side is the... ...so many men to be killed</span>

Must reject this apocalyptic blackmail.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Policante 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Amedeo, phD Candidate in the Graduate Programme in Politics @ Goldsmiths College, U. of London, "War against Biopower - Timely Reflections on an Historicist Foucault" Theory & Event, vol. 13.1, Project MUSE bb)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, in order to break the... ...continue to resist its arrangement.</span>

Our act of resistance questions the very coordinates of power that have been assume, base-superstructure. We affirm the dynamicness and fluidity of power structures. Foucault describes this apriori in making forms of biopower apparent.
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Butin 1</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Dan W. Butin, Assistant Professor of Education at Gettysburg College, June 2001, Educational Studies, Vol. 32, No. 2</span>
Foucault believed that... ...grounding to truth.

The affirmative turns the tables of the biopolitical apparatus. Our discourse and plan are a strategy that reverses power relations.
<span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Campbell 98</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, David, professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle, Writing Security, pg. 204-205</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recognizing the possibility of... ...also issued claims on society</span>

====Contention 3: Ethics==== 
A new conceptualization of planning is key to a truly ethical relationship to others – evil resides in the moments when we allow the efficient institution of social space to override the needs and desires of those who live inside it.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Baum 11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Howell, Prof. @ U. of Maryland, “Planning and the problem of evil” Planning Theory, Vol. 10.2, pp. 117-119)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">It is not news that men... ...social evils warrants the effort</span>

Totalizing ethical principles expose us to this Evil making us focus on situations that match the rules rather than imagining a vision of the future. The aff opens up creative thinking lanes to pursue unique knowledge production. Without these, we are all reduced to subhuman mass.
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Badiou 98</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 14-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Every collective will... ...must send away to dies in the shantytowns of Kinshasa</span>

Allowing the sovereign to label people and assign them to a give identity puts people into a 'bare life' -- to be killed without any repercussion.
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">McLoughlin 10</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Daniel McLoughlin, doctoral candidate in Philosophy in the University of New South Wale, "The Sacred and the Unspeakable: Giorgio Agamben's Ontological Politics." Theory & Event 13.1 (2010) Project MUSE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Drawing on Carl Schmitt's... ...without legal repercussion</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Death is not an impact because life is infinite</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lanza 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Robert, MD scientist and theoretician, Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 12/8/09, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html?ref=fb&src=sp&mimi=1&comm_ref=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many of us fear death... ...fabulous in them the next time I see her</span>

====Contention 4: Critical Pedagogy==== 
Our pedagogical advocacy opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action that creates key critical education.
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Giroux 6</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Biopolitics is not just about... ...need of being reclaimed</span>

Action must be preceded by correcting our knowledge base. They have a burden of rejoinder.
__Owen 2__ (David, Reader in Political Theory at the University of Southampton, Millennium: Journal of International Studies, Vol. 31, No. 3, http://mil.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/31/3/653)
The first dimension concerns... ...becoming too readily bewitched

We engage epistemics through genealogy.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fraser 85</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Nancy, Prof. Of Political Science, October, Ethics, Vol 96 Issue 1, P. 168]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A new kind of histography... ...take on an unsavory appearance</span>

Genealogical integration into the discussion of violence can break it down – discourse solves.
<span class="TagChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Morgareidge 1</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Clayton, Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College, 2/26/2001, “The Global Panopticon,” http://www.lclark.edu/%7Eclayton/commentaries/global.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foucault's central lesson... ...managed by the super-state</span>

Micropolitics provide lines of flight away from exclusionary power.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">May 93</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Todd, Between Genealogy and Epistemology, 1993, pg. 117]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foucault's concern is... ...that were inherent in the old one</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Youth participation in transportation can change existing policies.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Thomas 8</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">— Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 19)</span>
Canadian youth already participate... ...of a more active citizenry

This is even possible in a political framework.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Siemiatycki 12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Matti, Prof. @ U. of Toronto, “The Role of the Planning Scholar : Research, Conflict, and Social Change” Journal of Planning and Education Research, Vol. 32)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Implications for Planning Scholars... ...supports meaningful policy or social action</span>

==1AC - High Speed Rail== 
====Contention 1: Inherency==== 
Federal funding is empirically key to cover upfront costs – Recovery Act not enough
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Fleming 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – Director of Physical Infrastructure Issues of the Government Accountability Office (“High Speed Passenger Rail: Effectively Using Recovery Act Funds for High Speed Rail Projects” Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Surface Transportation and Merchang Marine Infrastructure, Safety, and Security, Committee on Commerse, Science and Transportation, U.S. Senate, June 23 2009, p. 2-3, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d09786t.pdf)</span>
Once projects are deemed economically viable...for coordination and decisionmaking.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus we defend the following plan: </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its high speed rail investment in the United States.</span>**

====Contention 2: Economy==== 
U.S. infrastructure undermines competitiveness and risks econ collapse
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Building America’s Future 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – a bipartisan coalition of elected officials dedicated to bringing about a new era of U.S. investment in infrastructure that enhances our nation’s prosperity and quality of life. (“Falling Apart and Falling Behind”, Transportation Infrastructure Report, http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf)</span>
Rebuilding America's economic foundation...developed in the 1960s.

U.S. econ is stalling – unemployment rising and comes at a precarious time globally
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bloomberg </span>____<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">12</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">-(Christopher S. Rugaber, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, June 1, 2012, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm)</span>
The U.S. economy suddenly looks...for the global economy.

Econ decline causes global war
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods...ancillary to those views.

HSR key to competition – other countries are beating us to the punch
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yaro 10</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> president of the Regional Plan Association, a policy, research and advocacy group, and Professor of Practice in City and Regional Planning at the University of Pennsylvania (Robert D. “An Investment We Have to Make,” New York Times, October 14 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2010/10/13/will-we-ever-have-high-speed-trains/an-investment-we-have-to-make)</span>
For these reasons Japan...future mobility and competitiveness.

HSR investment jumpstarts econ and key to long-term growth – federal investment key
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Williams 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Mantil is a Writer and researcher for the APTA, or American Public Transportation Association. The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) is a nonprofit international association of 1,500 public and private member organizations, engaged in the areas of bus, paratransit, light rail, commuter rail, subways, waterborne services, and intercity and high-speed passenger rail “Federal Investment in High-Speed Rail Could Spur 1.3 Million Jobs ” http://www.apta.com/mediacenter/pressreleases/2011/Pages/110406_HSR_Business.aspx)</span>
The American Public Transportation Association (APTA) released...projects get off the ground.

HSR has direct correlation with GDP – first thorough statistical study proves
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ahlfeldt 12</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Gabriel M Ahlfeldt, the Department of Geography and Environment at LSE, “New research shows that high-speed rail does deliver economic growth”, The London School of Economics and Political Science, http://www2.lse.ac.uk/newsAndMedia/news/archives/2010/09/highspeedrail.aspx, 13 Sep 2010,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">High-speed rail lines bring clear...to define future spending priorities.</span>

====Contention 3: Warming==== 
Warming is real, anthropogenic, and existential – vast international scientific evidence
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deibel 7</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Finally, there is one major existential threat...to the continued exstence of life on this planet.</span>

Rapid and catastrophic without severe emissions reduction
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mazo 10</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA, Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The best estimates for global warming ...profound social, cultural, and political changes.</span>

Fast warming causes extinction – adaptation would be impossible
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Tickell 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Oliver Tickell is an environmental Researcher. He is the founder of the Kyoto2 climate initiative, a researcher of the Oxford Climate Associates and specialized in international climate policy. Published August 11th, 2008 (http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees ...a similar hothouse Earth.</span>

Transportation is one of the few sectors where CO2 emissions are still growing. Mode shift from fossil-fuel based transportation key to avert warming
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chapman 7</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Professor - School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Science, University of Birmingham, UK Lee Chapman, Transport and climate change: a review, Journal of Transport Geography, Volume 15, Issue 5, September 2007, Pages 354–367)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">1.1. Climate change Natural forces ensure that the Earth has experienced ...society can adapt to reduce the impacts.</span>

HSR results in substantial GHG reduction
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">CCAP 6</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Center for Clean Air Policy, (Center for Green air Policy, “ High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S”, Article itself is a publication, January 2006, http://www.cnt.org/repository/HighSpeedRailEmissions.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To estimate high speed rail’s net emissions impact... ...higher upfront capital costs.</span>

HSR meets the 2020 emissions standards even at partial capacity
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">APTA 12</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– American Public Transportation Association, non-profit organization which serves as an advocate for the advancement of public transportation programs and initiatives in the United States; educated the public about the benefits of public transportation through organized bus, light rail, rapid transit and other programs; lobbies the U.S. Congress and local government bodies in favor of public transportation improvements and new developments. (January, An Inventory of the Criticisms ofHigh-Speed Rail, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/HSR-Defense.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The issue of the carbon footprint...one million metric tons of CO2 equivalent.</span>

US clean energy expansion spills over globally
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kammen 7</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley(Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th, http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In addition to supporting domestic job creation...emerging economies to go green.</span>

====Contention 4: Solvency==== 
HSR has a comparatively lower climate impact than all other transportation modes and is essential to mitigating the warming effect of transportation – HSR specifically is key
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jehanno 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Aurélie, works at Deutsche Bahn Environment Centre, for University of Chicago, High Speed and Sustainable Development Departments, “High Speed Rail & Sustainability”, November 2011, http://uic.org/IMG/pdf/hsr_sustainability_main_study_final.pdf, CJD)</span>
Any human activity causes...solutions to global challenges.

Federal funding is key to clarity and sustainability of HSR – current methods are too diffuse – states fail
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Todorovich, Schned and Lane</span>__ <span class="reduce2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Petra – director of America 2050, Daniel – associate planner for America 2050, and Robert, High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers, Policy Focus Report, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, p. 26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Even though PRIIA is authorized through 2013,...reliability on existing corridors .</span>

Ridership isn’t a problem and HSR solves emissions even if it runs on fossil fuels
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Todorovich et al. 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">— Petra Todorovich, Director of America 2050—a national urban planning initiative to develop an infrastructure and growth strategy for the United States, Assistant Visiting Professor at the Pratt Institute Graduate Center for Planning and the Environment, Member of the Board of Advisors of the Eno Transportation Foundation, holds an M.A. in City and Regional Planning from the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, et al., with Daniel Schned, Associate Planner for America 2050, Lecturer at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, holds an M.A. in City and Regional Planning and a Certificate in Geographic Information Systems from Rutgers University, and Robert Lane, Senior Fellow for Urban Design at Regional Plan Association, Founding Principal of Plan & Process LLP, former Loeb Fellow at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, holds an M.A. in Architecture from Columbia University, 2011 (“Chapter 2: Potential Benefits of High-Speed Rail,” High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers, Policy Focus Report of the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, ISBN 9781558442221, Available Online at https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf, Accessed 06-08-2012, p. 19-20)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Energy mix: High-speed rail is the only available...low carbon emitting sources.</span>

There will be strong ridership – national surveys prove almost 3/5 of Americans will use HSR
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">APTA 12</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(“APTA High-Speed Train Survery”, May 2012, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/2012-APTA-High-Speed-Train-Survey.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nearly two-thirds (62%) of Americans....travel by a high-speed train.</span>

==1AC - High Speed Rail== 
====Contention 1: Inherency==== 
Effective HSR is not happening – status quo HSR is being implemented badly
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Oremus 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Will, 12/7 ” Requiem for a Train” ,http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/technocracy/2011/12/high_speed_rail_is_dead_in_america_should_we_mourn_it_.single.html)</span>
If you live in Los Angeles... ...to be plenty of time

**Plan text: Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its high-speed rail investment in the United States.**

====Contention 2: Warming==== 
Warming is real, anthropogenic, and the largest existential risk – vast international scientific evidence accumulates weekly
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deibel 7</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
Finally, there is one... ...of life on this planet

Media skepticism and denier research should be rejected – they are paid off and don’t write in peer reviewed scientific journals
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lewandowsky and Ashley 11</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(6/24, Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change,” 6/24/11, http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558</span>
Some people will be... ...reality-based conclusion

Global warming is proven real and dangerous – this card answers all your answers
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Environmental Defense Fund 9</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(a US-based nonprofit environmental advocacy group, “Global Warming Myths and Facts,” 1/13/2009, http://mrgreenbiz.wordpress.com/2009/01/13/global-warming-myths-and-facts-2/)</span>
There is no debate among... ...future climatic change

Global warming is anthropogenic and a threat – claiming alternative causes does not refute our claims – we outwarrant you on every point
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Farley 8</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John W., physics professor, cites 25 sources, Monthly Review, July-August, “The Scientific Case for Modern Anthropogenic Global Warming”, http://monthlyreview.org/2008/07/01/the-scientific-case-for-modern-anthropogenic-global-warming)</span>
Most Americans today... ...while there is still time

Warming is likely to be rapid and catastrophic without severe emission reductions
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Mazo 10</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA, Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
The best estimates... ...cultural and political changes

Warming causes extinction
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Tickell 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Oliver Tickell is an environmental Researcher. He is the founder of the Kyoto2 climate initiative, a researcher of the Oxford Climate Associates and specialized in international climate policy. Published August 11th, 2008 (http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">We need to get... ...towards a similar hothouse Earth.</span>

Global warming is occurring but it is still reversible – the uncertainties that exist are not a reason to fail to act – the risk of extinction is rising now
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Costello 11</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Anthony, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Mark Maslin, Department of Geography, University College London, Hugh Montgomery, Institute for Human Health and Performance, University College London, Anne M. Johnson, Institute for Global Health, University College London, Paul Ekins, Energy Institute, University College London “Global health and climate change: moving from denial and catastrophic fatalism to positive action” May 2011 vol. 369 no. 1942 1866-1882 Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society]</span>
Advocacy about the health... ...many environments inhabitable

Warming is reversible – technology will allow us to make a transition, but we need strong government leadership
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sanders 7</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bernie, November 27, “Global Warming is Reversible”, http://www.thenation.com/article/global-warming-reversible#)</span>
Scientists now tell us... ...only make the task easier

We’re almost at the irreversible tipping point – it’s do or die for the affirmative – this decade is critical
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Chestney 12</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Nina, May 27, “Global warming close to becoming irreversible-scientists”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/26/us-climate-thresholds-idUSBRE82P0UJ20120326)</span>
(Reuters) - The world... ...conference runs through Thursday

Ocean acidification culminates in extinction – species extinction spirals up
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Romm 10</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Dr. Joseph Romm is the editor of Climate Progress and a Senior Fellow at the American Progress, Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy during the Clinton Administration, PhD in Physics from MIT, “Nature Geoscience study: Oceans are acidifying 10 times faster today than 55 million years ago when a mass extinction of marine species occurred” http://climateprogress.org/2010/02/18/ocean-acidification-study-mass-extinction-of-marine-life-nature-geoscience/#more-19529]</span>
Marine life face some... ...slashing carbon dioxide emissions is now

Transportation is one of the few sectors where CO2 emissions are still growing. Mode shift from fossil-fuel based transportation options key to avert global warming
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Chapman 7</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Professor - School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Science, University of Birmingham, UK Lee Chapman, Transport and climate change: a review, Journal of Transport Geography, Volume 15, Issue 5, September 2007, Pages 354–367)</span>
1.1 Climate change... ...adapt to reduce the impacts

HSR removes 6 billion pounds of CO2 per year and helps meet the 2020 emissions standards even at only partial capacity
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">APTA 12</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– American Public Transportation Association, non-profit organization which serves as an advocate for the advancement of public transportation programs and initiatives in the United States; educated the public about the benefits of public transportation through organized bus, light rail, rapid transit and other programs; lobbies the U.S. Congress and local government bodies in favor of public transportation improvements and new developments. (January, An Inventory of the Criticisms of High-Speed Rail, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/ Documents/HSR-Defense.pdf) //</span>
The issue of the... ...metric tons of CO2 equivalent

HSR is energy efficient and sets up commitment to alternative energy, solving nationwide
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Longshore 10</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Samantha Certification Analyst at Transwestern ’ "Putting the Brakes on High-Speed Rail" http://www.worldgreen.org/home/wg-feature-articles/4601-putting-the-brakes-on-high-speed-rail.html</span>
A high-speed rail... ...preserving our future

US expansion of its clean energy sector spills over globally
__<span style="color: black;">Kammen 7</span>__, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor of Public Policy @ UC Berkeley, (Daniel, "Green Jobs Created by Global Warming Initiative," September 25th, http://www.unep.org/civil_society/GCSF9/pdfs/karmen-senate.pdf)</span>
In addition to supporting... ...to 'go green'

====Contention 3: Solvency==== 
HSR has a comparatively lower climate impact than all other transportation modes and is essential to mitigating the warming effect of transportation – HSR specifically is key – we’ve already accounted for construction CO2 emissions and we still solve
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jehanno et al 11</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Aurélie, works at Deutsche Bahn Environment Centre, for University of Chicago, Derek Palmer, Ceri James (Cen James), Michel Leboeuf, Iñaki Barrón , Jean-Pierre Pradayrol, Henning Schwarz, Margrethe Sagevik, Naoto Yanase, Begoña Cabo, High Speed and Sustainable Development Departments, “High Speed Rail & Sustainability”, November 2011, http://uic.org/IMG/pdf/hsr_sustainability_main_study_final.pdf,)</span>
Any human activity... ...to global challenges

HSR emits at least 5 to 6 times less than other transportation modes – this is comparative unlike their evidence
__<span style="color: black;">Jehanno 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, engineering leader of urban transportation at Systra, “ High Speed Rail and Sustainability”, International Union of railways report, November 2011, http://uic.org/IMG/pdf/hsr_sustainability_main_study_final.pdf”</span>
Another objection to... ...criticisms of new construction

Solvency needs to be framed in terms of overall emissions made from HSR and cut from other vehicles – it’s the only accurate measure
__<span style="color: black;">Davies 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Head of Strategic Policy for the Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) (Richard, “ Energy consumption and CO2 impacts of High Speed Rail: ATOC analysis for Greengauge 21”, The Association of Train Operating Companies, April 2009, http://www.greengauge21.net/wp-content/uploads/Energy-Consumption-and-CO2-impacts.pdf)//</span>
Firstly, high speed railways... ...analysis presented here

National surveys prove over 3/5 of Americans will use HSR
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">APTA 12</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(“APTA High-Speed Train Survery”, May 2012, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/2012-APTA-High-Speed-Train-Survey.pdf)</span>
Between May... ...travel by a high-speed train

Extinction comes first – anything else can be recovered from
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sanders, Matheny, and Ćirković 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Anders Sandberg, is a James Martin Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computational neuroscience @ Stockholm University Jason G. Matheny is a PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. and Milan M. Ćirković senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. He is also an assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia and Montenegro. “How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?” 9-9-2008 http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction]</span>
There is a... ...worries about extinction

Nuclear war will not cause extinction – nuclear winter is overstated – empirics and realistic data are on our side
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Dunning 11</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Brian, February 8, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter”, http://skeptoid.com/episodes/4244)</span>
Put on your jackets... ...of nuclear war?

=Negative= 
==Procedurals== 
===Topicality=== 
====**T: Maintenance**==== 
“Maintenance” not “investment”
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Delisle 10</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Deborah S., Superintendent of Public Instruction – Ohio Department of Education, “Weekly Update”, EdConnection, 10-4, http://www.ercoinc.org/updates/October10.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Certification required... ...maintenance or repairs</span>

====**T: Direct Funding**==== 
Investment requires the “capital expenditure” for "direct funds" for projects – prefer this definition – the author attempts to set a guide for policy makers
Edward __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anderson</span>__ (Lecturer in Development Studies at the University of East Anglia) March __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2006</span>__ “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf
This paper will... ...and World Bank, 2002)

====**T: Loan Guarantees**==== 
A loan guarantee is only conditionally spending money & thus not investment
__<span style="color: #222222;">Muro and Rothwell 11</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Mark Muro, senior fellow and director of policy for the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings, Jonathan Rothwell a Senior Research Analyst and Associate Fellow at the Metropolitan Policy Program Brookings: “DOE’s Loan Guarantee Program Will Likely Result in Minimal Costs and Large Gains for Taxpayers” By Climate Guest Blogger on Sep 28, 2011 at 8:25 am by Mark Muro and Jonathan Rothwell, in a Brookings repost BK</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">A loan guarantee... ...the borrower's assets</span>

====**T: In The United States**==== 
United States is a republic made up of 50 states
__Dictionary.com, 2012__ By Dictionary.com, online dictionary, <span style="color: black;">2012, </span>"<span style="color: black;">United States</span>” http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/United+States?s=t
A republic in the... ...U.S.. U

“In” indicates a position within the limits or boundaries
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster Dictionary 2012</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/in)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1 a ---used as a... ...<went in the house></span>

====**T: Substantial Investment**==== 
Interpretation and violation – “Substantial investment” must be an increase of __at least__ 20%
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Traficant 89</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (“H.R.2489 -- Foreign Subsidiary Tax Equity Act (Introduced in House - IH)”, 5-24, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c101:H.R.2489.IH:)</span>
SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT... ...day of such a period

That means the plan must spend 9 billion dollars
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CBO 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Congressional Budgeting Office, “Issues and Options in Infrastructure Investment”, May, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/91xx/doc9135/05-16-infrastructure.pdf)</span>
Federal spending on... ...state and local governments

====**T: Energy**==== 
Pipelines are not “transportation infrastructure” – they’re “energy”
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Commerce</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 9/23/</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index Summary Report”, http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110. pdf)</span>
Step 1 - Definition... ...element of energy infrastructure

====**T: Public**==== 
Transportation infrastructure must be publicly used
__Katz and Bye, 95__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – both from Statistics Norway, Research Department (Alexandra and Torstein, “RETURNS TO PUBLICLY OWNED TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, September, http://www.ssb.no/publikasjoner/pdf/dp-154.pdf) </span>
One widely used definition... ...communication activities

====**T: Military**==== 
Transportation infrastructure excludes the military
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">National Infrastructure Improvement Act 7</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (S. 775, this bill did not pass, proquest Congressional)</span>
This Act may be... ...waster disposal facility

===**Minor Repair**=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset, but not for minor remodeling</span>
__DOE 10__ – US department of Education (“Clarifying Guidance on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Section 1512 Quarterly Reporting”, American Recovery and reinvestment Act, www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/.../guidance-1512-quarterly-reporting.doc)
For the purposes of... ...C.F.R. § 77.1(c).

===**ASPEC**=== 
Power in the federal government is divided in 3 branches
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Rotunda 01</span>__ (18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis)
The Framers of... ...Houses of Congress

90% of the plan is the procedure of implementation. We can’t learn about most of the Affirmative without comparative institutional analysis.
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Elmore 80</span>__, Professor of Public Affairs at University of Michigan, Polysci Quarterly Pages 79-80
Analysis of Policy... ...realm of implementation

===USPEC=== 
There are an infinite number of universes. The aff fails to specify which one the plan is enacted in.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lanza 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Robert, MD scientist and theoretician, Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 12/8/09, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html?ref=fb&src=sp&mimi=1&comm_ref=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Many of us fear... ...the next time I see her</span>

===**Framework**=== 
“United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means
__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ericson 3 </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span>
The Proposition of Policy... ...that you propose

===Anti-Framework=== 
The United States federal government is the people
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__Perkel no date__ (Mark Perkel, computer visionary, “The Fourth Branch of Government is the People,” http://www.perkel.com/politics/issues/fourth.htm)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In school you were taught that... ...the government is the People</span>
===**Death Cult**=== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Death is not an event of “impact” because life is infinite. Although there may be a destruction of the body, the energy of life is omnipresent. We should accept life as an infinite cycle.</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lanza 9</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Robert, MD scientist and theoretician, Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 12/8/09, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html?ref=fb&src=sp&mimi=1&comm_ref=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Many of us fear... ...the next time I see her</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Extinction and suffering and terminally inevitable – the infinite cycle of time means when it happens is irrelevant</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Benatar 6</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [David, Professor and Head of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Cape Town, “Population and Extinction,” Better Never to Have Been: The Harm of Coming Into Existence, Published by Oxford University Press, [[http://debatecoaches.org/wiki/index.php/Special:BookSources/0199296421|ISBN 0199296421]], p. 198]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Whenever humanity comes... ...is thus strong</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">The aff’s invocation of death is necrophilia – an obsession with control and body counts that makes life meaningless</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Erich </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Fromm 64</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, PhD in sociology from Heidelberg in 1922, psychology prof at MSU in the 60’s, “Creators and Destroyers”, The Saturday Review, New York (04. January 1964), pp. 22-25</span>
People are aware of... ...struggle against necrophilia

==Disadvantages== 
===Elections=== 
Obama winning now-- but it's close: prefer swing state analysis
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Silver 9/18 </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Nate, "How to Solve the Swing-State Puzzle,"</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/23/magazine/nate-silver-solves-the-swing-state-puzzle.html?pagewanted=all)</span>
The Big Two:... ...eke out a victory

Transportation infrastructure unpopular
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Orski 12--</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. (WHY PLEAS TO INCREASE INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING FALL ON DEAF EARS," NewGeography, 2/5/2012, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears)</span>
Finding the resources to... ...few and far between

GOP win causes Iran strike-- escalates and causes extinction
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Swaine 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> (Jon, 11-13, “Republican hopefuls would go to war with Iran,” Telegraph, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/republicans/8887247/Republican-hopefuls-would-go-to-war-with-Iran.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Republican hopefuls would go... ...potential "Armageddon" scenario</span>

===Oil=== 
Oil prices high - rising demand pushing prices up
__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Sampson 9/5</span>__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> [Pamela, Associated Press business writer, September 5 2012, “Oil price gains on rising US vehicle sales” http://finance.yahoo.com/news/oil-price-gains-rising-us-050845873.html]</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Oil prices rose... ...sales drove the increase</span>

More efficient transportation would reduce US oil dependency
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">DoT 12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">(Department of the Treasury with the Council of Economic Advisors, March 23, “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">A more efficient... ...over the past decade</span>

Falling oil prices causes political unrest in Saudi Arabia, unleashing nuclear weapon usage and terrorism
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Joshi 4/13</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Shashank, doctoral student at Harvard University, Research Fellow of the Royal United Services Institute April 13 2012, “New Delhi's balancing acts in West Asia” The Hindu, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/article3308145.ece]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
A sectarian, geopolitical and... ...with its policies

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nuclear terrorism causes nuclear war and extinction.</span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Guardian</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">, 3-31-</span><span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">2008</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">, Project Syndicate, “The Nuclear Risk,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/mar/31/newnuclearrisk</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Vital pillars of the... ...would be horrific</span>

===Texas Secession=== 
Rising tensions makes civil war likely now
<span class="s1">__Politics USA 12__ 7/14/12</span>Republicans Wage America’s Second Civil War Over an Imaginary Loss of Freedom 7/14/12<span class="s3">[[http://www.politicususa.com/republicans-wage-americas-civil-war-imaginary-loss-freedoms.html]]</span>
It is nearly impossible... ...more likely every day

More federal meddling with Texas operations will lead to secession
__<span class="s1">Burnett 12</span>__ John Burnett NPR Staff Writer Lone Star State Of Mind: Could Texas Go It Alone? 3/30/12<span class="s5">[[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/30/149094135/lone-star-state-of-mind-could-texas-go-it-alone]]</span>
It's a popular idea... ...Texas aid to the poor

A Civil War from secession is the only scenario for the collapse of heg
__<span class="s1">Brooks 10</span>__, Stephen Brooks Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, Stephen Brooks on Hegemony, September 1 2010 <span class="s5">[[http://www.planetdebate.com/blogs/view/1043]]</span>
So, when we ask... ...fast rising country

Hegemony solves nuclear conflicts
<span class="s1">__Kagan, 07__ </span>(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,//Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)
If the world is... ...provide an unclear path

===Spending=== 
Fiscal discipline now
__Wall Street Journal 11/28__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Wallace Witkowski, MarketWatch, news editor in San Francisco, “Grand Bargain best fiscal cliff deal for stocks http://www.marketwatch.com/story/grand-bargain-best-fiscal-cliff-deal-for-stocks-2012-11-28?pagenumber=2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But don't expect any... ...BMO Capital Markets</span>

New spending kills fiscal discipline
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">O’Hanlon 10 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Michael O’Hanlon, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, 12/22/10, “THE DEFENSE BUDGET AND AMERICAN POWER,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2010/1222_defense_budget/20101222_defense_budget.pdf</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">So the minute that... ...spirit of shared sacrifice</span></span>
Loss of fiscal discipline causes a downgrade
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Mark </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Gongloff</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Wall Street Journal, 08/2/’</span><span class="reduce2">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, [Moody’s Affirms US AAA Rating, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2011/08/02/moodys-affirms-us-aaa-rating/]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span></span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">Moody's just came out... ...what is currently expected</span></span>
Further downgrades cause a debt spiral, destroying the economy
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Rowley 12 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Charles Rowley, Professor Emeritus of Economics at George Mason University, 10/15/12, “Renewed threats to U.S. credit rating,” Charles Rowley’s blog, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If Moody's downgrades and... ...here we come</span>

Economic decline causes global war
<span class="TagsChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Less intuitive is how... ...deserves more attention</span>

===Russian Nationalism=== 
Putin returns to the Russian presidency in a considerably weakened position – while he remains convinced that a cooperative and export-driven foreign policy is correct; he remains at substantial risk of nationalist overthrow.
__Inozemtsev 11__, Vladislov, Renowned Russian Economic Expert and Analyst at the Centre for Research of Post-Industrial Studies in Moscow, “The Hinge that Holds Russia Together,” FOREIGN AFFAIRS, 9-30-2011, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/68312/vladislav-inozemtsev/the-hinge-that-holds-russia-together?page=show.
Vladimir Putin's decision... ...will become clear soon

Russia has identified U.S. space weakness as a critical forum with which to regain great power status – sustained space leadership in the next couple of years key.
__Mack 11__, <span style="line-height: 1.5;">David, “Russia’s New Space Odyssey”, CSIS, March 25, 2011, http://csis.org/blog/russias-new-space-odyssey.</span>
In this decade Russia... ...mankind's final frontier

Restoration of great power status is the single most important issue holding back nationalist challenges – perception key.
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">__Nodia 9__, Ghia, Georgian Political Analyst and Former Minister of Eduction and Science, Cabinet of Georgia, “The Wounds of Lost Empire”, Journal of Democracy, v 20 n 2; April 2009, p. 34, proquest.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">I believe that the crucial... ...and much more besides</span>

Nationalist takeover causes Nuclear World War 3.
__Israelyan 98__, Victor, Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and political scientist for almost 50 years, “Russia at the Crossroads: Don’t Tease a Wounded Bear,” The Washington Quarterly, Winter 1998, LN.
The first and by far... ...more than 50 million lives

===Coercion=== 
Federal infrastructure investment undermines freedom and private property rights- kicking the ones at the bottom to the curb
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black;">Carson</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (a senior fellow and holder of the Karl Hess Chair in Social Theory at the Center for a Stateless Society) 11/</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Kevin, “The Distorting Effects of Transportation Subsidies”, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thefreemanonline.org/features/the-distorting-effects-of-transportation-subsidies/]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It's hard to avoid... ...production are illusory</span>

Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance of coercion is key.
__Petro 74__ <span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;"> [Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html]</span>
However, one may still insist... ...with undying spirit

===Dedevelopment=== 
The present economy is unsustainable and will result in war; only through post-collapse “new way” communities can global peace occur.
__Trainer 02__ “If you want affluence, prepare for war”. Ted Trainer University of NSW, Kensington, Australia. (Published in Democracy and Nature, 8, 2, July 2002.)
As in the case... ...within this movement

Economic decline does not cause war – studies prove
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Morris </span><span class="AuthorDateChar">__Miller 2k__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, IPoverty as a cause of wars?” Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, 2000. http://www.management.uottawa.ca/miller/poverty.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The question may be... ...of violence to abort another</span>

Collapse causes mindset shift
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis 2k</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—prof, U Colorado, Boulder. Ph.D. (Chris, Global Industrial Civilization: The Necessary Collapse, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.colorado.edu/AmStudies/lewis/ecology/lewglo.pdf]]</span>
Since its birth in... ...local environments and economies

===Fiscal Cliff=== 
Possibility of compromise now – new breakthroughs
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Caldwell and Fuller 12/6</span>__- Econ specialists and writers (Patrick and Jaime, “A Small Step for the Fiscal Cliff”, The American Propsect, December 6, 2012, http://prospect.org/article/small-step-fiscal-cliff)
Despite the daily drumbeat... ...home for Christmas

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Capital’s key to deal success --- compromise is possible</span>
__McTague 11/10,__<span style="font-family: Arial;"> Jim, “Obama and the Cliff: What He Can Do Now,” 11-10-12, http://online.barrons.com/article/SB50001424052748703728004578105080119247220.html?mod=BOL_twm_fs#articleTabs_article%3D1</span>
Winning re-election may have... ...both parties to get some

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation spending unpopular – new spending means backlash – fiscal cliff magnifies link</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Cassata 12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Associated Press Political Editor, 7/9/12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Donna, Associated Press, “Conservatives make it rough for business,” http://www.wtvm.com/story/18976891/gop-conservatives-make-it-rough-for-business, accessed 7/9/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"The world has changed,"... ...making decisions," he said</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Fiscal cliff collapses the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Maximillian </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Walsh 12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> (writer for the Australian Financial Review) </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">10/25</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">, “Good ship QE3 must reverse sometime” Lexis</span>
Even through fiscal... ...economies down with it

Economic decline leads to war - strong statistical support
<span class="TagsChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Less intuitive is how... ...deserves more attention</span>

===Hagel=== 
Hagel will be confirmed, but GOP opposition means it requires political capital
Walsh 1-21
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Joan Walsh, “Obama II: Older, wiser, stronger”, Salon, 1-21-13, http://www.salon.com/2013/01/21/obama_ii_older_wiser_stronger/)</span>
Nominating Chuck Hagel... ...there are many battles ahead

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation spending unpopular – new spending means backlash – fiscal cliff magnifies link</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Cassata 12</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Associated Press Political Editor, 7/9/12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Donna, Associated Press, “Conservatives make it rough for business,” http://www.wtvm.com/story/18976891/gop-conservatives-make-it-rough-for-business, accessed 7/9/12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"The world has changed,"... ...making decisions," he said</span>

Hagel reigns in personnel benefits
MacGilis, 1-9
Alec MacGillis, Senior Editor at The New Republic, 1-9-2013, “Can Chuck Hagel Cure The Military’s Health Care Problems,” http://www.tnr.com/blog/plank/111778/can-chuck-hagel-cure-the-militarys-health-care-problem
The Pentagon... ...of reforming Tricare, says Korb

Key to solve collapse of hard power
Bennett, 2012
John T. Bennett covers national security and foreign policy for U.S. News & World Report, Study Warns Cost of U.S. Troops Unsustainable, http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/dotmil/2012/07/12/study-warns-cost-of-us-troops-is-unsustainable
Increasingly costly benefits... ...to buy combat hardwares

Hard power solves multiple scenarios for nuclear war
Frederick __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan and</span>__ Michael __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">O’Hanlon 7</span>__, Fred’s a resident scholar at AEI, Michael is a senior fellow in foreign policy at Brookings, “The Case for Larger Ground Forces”, April, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.aei.org/files/2007/04/24/20070424_Kagan20070424.pdf]]</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">We live at a time when... ...it is also badly overdue</span>

===<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">Immigration Reform</span>=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">Immigration Reform will pass, but delay will cause Republicans to lose their nerve</span>

__Nocera 3/__21(Kate, Politico, “Chuck Schumer: Gang of 8 close to immigration deal,” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=43A6A815-6B07-4A08-8317-01C7A3D8A971)
With activists and lawmakers anxious... ...politics would get in the way

<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">Pol Cap key -- Obama is pushing immigration -- no thumpers</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__Nakamura 3/1__ (David, Washington Post, www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obama-to-refocus-attention-on-immigration-gun-control/2013/03/01/64fbe2d0-81ef-11e2-a350-49866afab584_story.html\)</span>
President Obama signaled Friday... ...and the administration's attention

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation spending unpopular – new spending means backlash</span>
__Cassata 12__, Associated Press Political Editor, 7/9/12 (Donna, Associated Press, “Conservatives make it rough for business,” http://www.wtvm.com/story/18976891/gop-conservatives-make-it-rough-for-business, accessed 7/9/12)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">"The world has changed,"... ...making decisions," he said</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">Reform's key to heg</span>

__Nye 12__ Joseph S. Nye, a former US assistant secretary of defense and chairman of the US National Intelligence Council, is University Professor at Harvard University. “Immigration and American Power,” December 10, Project Syndicate, http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/obama-needs-immigration-reform-to-maintain-america-s-strength-by-joseph-s--nye
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">The United States is a nation of immigrants... ...maintain the strength of the US</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">Nuclear war</span>

__Khalilzad 11__ Zalmay, the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, February 8, “The Economy and National Security; If we don’t get our economic house in order, we risk a new era of multi-polarity,” online: http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad
We face this domestic challenge... ...Chinese hegemony and aggression

==Counterplans== 
===States=== 
**Text: The 50 states, Washington DC, and relevant United States' territories should, through interstate compacts, invest in the implementation of transportation infrastructure.**

Interstate compacts are the most binding mechanism of state cooperation and provide a way to counterbalance federal power
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__Florestano 94__ </span><span style="line-height: 1.5;">(Patricia S., Ph.D., Maryland Secretary of Higher Education, Professor of government at University of Baltimore, vice chancellor for governmental relations, director of Institute for Governmental Service, assistant professor at Institute for Urban Studies, "Past and Present Utilization of Interstate Compacts in the United States," Oxford Journals, Autumn 1994, http://www.jstor.org/stable/3330581, AD: 7-6-9)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Withing the American... ...in intergovernmental relations."</span>

===Rationalized Planning=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should create a new rationalized from of planning by uniting the body populace through this rationalized planning in the physical, social, and mental aspects of planning.**

CP solves better: Current rationalized planning destroys unity, CP unites them and allows more efficient control over the body populace.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Law-Yone 7</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Hubert, Prof. of Israel Institute of Technolo gy, “Another planning theory? Rewriting the meta-narrative” Planning Theory, Vol. 6.3, pp. 319-321)</span>
The absent materiality of... ...(an ethical space)

NB is biopolitics; it creates the worst forms of global genocide. CP breaks down the violent power structures by overidentifying.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marks 8</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Assoc. Prof. in French, University of Nottingham, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98)</span>
Although biopower in... ...the entire German population

===European Space Agency=== 
**Text: The European Space Agency, in a Ministerial Council, should approve a proposal mandating the development and deployment of four space elevators.**

The European Space Agency is deciding how to invest in space exploration now- CP solidifies its focus- it solves and is in the literature.
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Brobinsky and Del Monte 2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(N and L, both with the ESA, The Space Situational Awareness Program of the European Space Agency, Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 392–398, http://www.springerlink.com/content/a592j95k5l113715/fulltext.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CHARACTERISTICS OF THE... ...Near-Earth Objects (NEO)</span>

A focused ESA has the resources and tech to solve, and improves current operations of other countries’ space agencies.
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Brobinsky and Del Monte 2010</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(N and L, both with the ESA, The Space Situational Awareness Program of the European Space Agency, Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 392–398, http://www.springerlink.com/content/a592j95k5l113715/fulltext.pdf)</span>
CONCLUSIONS As stated... ...interested and cooperating parties

===Ground Based=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should expand funding for ground-based Near-Earth Object survey telescopes.**

Solves for asteroid detection
__Morrison, 10__ <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[David, Director, Carl Sagan Center for Study of Life in the Universe, “ Impacts and Evolution: Protecting Earth from Asteroids,” </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY VOL. 154, NO. 4, DECEMBER 2010, [[http://www.amphilsoc.org/sites/default/files/1540404.pdf]]]</span>
A detailed study sponsored... ...additional order of magnitude

Avoids politics
__Reich, 10__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[ Eugenie covers physics, science policy, and alleged scientific misconduct. She has published a book on scientific fraud and was a Knight Science Journalism Fellow at MIT. Before joining Nature, she was a features editor at New Scientist and a researcher at the BBC. She has a BA in physics and philosophy from the University of Oxford., “ NASA panel weighs asteroid danger,” 8 September 2010 | Nature 467, 140-141 (2010) ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ball Aerospace and... ...from scratch", he says</span>

===World Government=== 
**Text: Form a world government to implement transportation infrastructure while dissolving national governments.**

World government can solve the aff’s transportation infrastructure claims
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Converse 11</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (pg 240, Raymond W. “World Government: Utopian Dream or Current Reality Vol. 2; Lessons of history: The United States and the European Union”, http://books.google.com/books?id=E-kcbFdN4qoC&pg=PA83&lpg=PA83&dq=%22world+government%22+transportation+infrastructure&source=bl&ots=AgXzBsJeXV&sig=_kybJCYyCUM6NH7FwWzw4HTR7yU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ps9pUNLrJo2ByAHKjICoDA&ved=0CDcQ6wEwAQ#v=onepage&q=%22world%20government%22%20transportation%20infrastructure&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is substansial agreement... ...the possibility of stable democracy</span>

World government solves the problem
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yang 11</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Unity, page141, “A GLOBAL STATE THROUGH DEMOCRATIC FEDERAL WORLD GOVERNMENT: How the World Works Better: Hidden Benefits of a New World Political Economy”, 2011, http://books.google.com/books?id=aEC2QI1MIacC&printsec=frontcover&dq=A+Global+State+Through+Democratic+Federal+World+Government&source=bl&ots=-sUKm0Hanq&sig=U2njFJOF0ny25pJYWd3cVhVepQA&hl=en&sa=X&ei=g35iULfMCo-MyAGwroHoCQ&ved=0CC8Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=A%20Global%20State%20Through%20Democratic%20Federal%20World%20Government&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">With all these components... ...towards better days ahead</span>

World government also solves all war
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hagger 10</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Nicholas, The World Government: A Blueprint for a Universal World State, page 6, http://books.google.com/books?id=Vs1w1CjatmkC&printsec=frontcover&dq=The+World+Government:+A+Blueprint+for+a+Universal+World+State&source=bl&ots=7tcbAm4ED0&sig=g6QsYM2d_zUcgv_yjiiN7f35PZg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=O_RhUJ7BForlyAG_soGwCw&ved=0CC8Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&q&f=false)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Having within two epic... ...State that prevents war</span>

===Crew Rotation=== 
**Text: The Navy should adopt a broader set of crew rotation policies for cruisers, destroyers, and amphibious ships.**

Crew rotation allows for more effective power projection and saves billions of dollars
__<span class="s1">Bensahel et al. 12</span>__ (Dr. Nora Bensahel is Adjunct Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and the Deputy Director of Studies and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Lieutenant General David W. Barno [USA (Ret.)] is a Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Matthew Irvine is a Research Associate at the Center for a New American Security, Travis Sharp is the Bacevich Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, May, “Sustainable Pre-eminence” Reforming the U.S. Military at a Time of Strategic Change <span class="s2">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/]]</span>CNAS_SustainablePreeminence_BarnoBensahelIrvineSharp_0.pdf)
The Navy should adopt a broader set... ...elsewhere in the world

===Asian Carp=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should modernize all locks and dams except fo the St. Anthony Falls Lock and Lock Number 1.**

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Closing St. Anthony and Lock No. 1 prevents Asian carp invasion – solves biodiversity</span>
<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Star News</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, T.W. Budig, ECM Capitol Reporter, “Environmental groups appeal for action on Asian carp”, 12/15/</span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, http://erstarnews.com/2011/12/15/environmental-groups-appeal-for-action-on-asian-carp/</span>
The end of the river... ...truck traffic on the highways

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Every new species loss risks extinction </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Major David N. </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Diner</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> , JAG – US Army, MILITARY LAW REVIEW, Winter 19</span><span class="reduce2">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">94</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, http://www.stormingmedia.us/14/1456/A145654.html</span>
By causing widespread extinctions... ...closer to the abyss

<span style="font-family: Arial;">Solves econ best</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Stephanie </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hemphill</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Minnesota Public Radio, “Report adds up economic harm from carp spread”,</span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">7/8</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">/12,http://minnesota.publicradio.org/display/web/2012/06/08/enviroment/invasive-carp/</span>
The spread of Asian carp... ...over the next 30 years

===Dedevelopment=== 
**Text: All relevant governments should encourage a steady state economy mindset.**

The present economy is unsustainable and will result in war; only through post-collapse “new way” communities can global peace occur.
__Trainer 02__ “If you want affluence, prepare for war”. Ted Trainer University of NSW, Kensington, Australia. (Published in Democracy and Nature, 8, 2, July 2002.)
As in the case... ...within this movement

Economic decline does not cause war – studies prove
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Morris </span><span class="AuthorDateChar">__Miller 2k__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, IPoverty as a cause of wars?” Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, 2000. http://www.management.uottawa.ca/miller/poverty.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The question may be... ...of violence to abort another</span>

Collapse causes mindset shift
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis 2k</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—prof, U Colorado, Boulder. Ph.D. (Chris, Global Industrial Civilization: The Necessary Collapse, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.colorado.edu/AmStudies/lewis/ecology/lewglo.pdf]]</span>
Since its birth in... ...local environments and economies

===Intelligent Transportation Systems=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should provide loan guarantees for a national infrastructure bank in the United States without providing loan guarantees for Intelligent Transportations Systems. The United States federal government should devolve authority to the state of Texas and remove all federal restrictions and regulations. Texas should implement Intelligent Transportation Systems.**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NIB includes ITS</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mallet, Maguire, and Kosar 11</span>__<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;"> [William J. Mallett is a Specialist in Transportation Policy, Steven Maguire is a Specialist in Public Finance, Kevin R. Kosar is an Analyst in American National Government, Congressional Research Service, December 14, 2011, “National Infrastructure Bank: Overview and Current Legislation” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42115.pdf]</span>

States cooperation now proves solvency
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">I-15 Mobility Alliance 11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, I-15 Mobility Alliance, the Interstates Alliance that developed ITS on highway I-15, I</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math'; font-size: 6pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">15 Corridor System Characteristics: Intelligent Transportation Systems June 2011 https://www.google.com/search?q=I%E2%80%9015+Corridor+System+Characteristics%3A+Intelligent+Transportation+Systems&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a</span>
According to FHWA... ...Integrated Corridor Management

===Sunshades=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should develop and deploy sunshades beyond the Earth's mesosphere.**

Solves warming
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Victor et al 2009</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">– a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University (David G., March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Each year, the effects of... ...dreamed of doing</span>

===Prenatal Screening=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should prohibit the use of pre-natal screening and testing.**

And, the medical visualization of the fetus naturalizes disability and leads to a culture of abelist eugenics.
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tremain 6</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, was the 1997–1998 Ed Roberts Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley, and the World Institute on Disability. From 1998 to 2001, she worked as a research associate and principal investigator at Canada's national policy research institute to promote the human rights of disabled people, in ‘6 [Shelley, “Reproductive Freedom, Self-Regulation, and the Government of Impairment in Utero”, Hypatia Vol. 21 no. 1, Muse]</span>
In this article... ...normalization of the fetal body

And, Pre-natal screening reinscribes the liberal intolerance for the disabled body
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Breckenridge & Vogler 1</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Chicago & an associate professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago and codirector of the Master's Program in the Humanities, in ‘1 [Carol A. & Candace, “The Critical Limits of Embodiment: Disability's Criticism”, Public Culture 13.3]</span>
The willed production... ...of disabled modal citizens

===Consult Japan=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should enter into deep consultation with Japan about the future of the US-Japan alliance and should:**
**- promote co-location of Japanese and United States bases within Okinawa**
**- allow local Japanese governments to conduct environmental inspections of American military bases**
**- take steps to revitalize Okinawa's economy, including, but not limited to, improving energy efficiency and renewable energy**
**- engage Japan in anticipatory public engagement through the Japan-US Educational Commission**
**We reserve the right to clarify.**

That solves & is net beneficial
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tanaka 10 </span><span style="font-size: 90%;">(Hitoshi Tanaka, senior fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange, chairman of the Institute for International Strategy at the Japan Research institute, he served for three years as Japan’s Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, advisor to Prime Minister Koizumi on relations with North Korea, China, and the United States, 2/16/10, East Asia Forum, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/16/the-us-japan-alliance-beyond-futenma/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The US-Japan alliance... ...security in the region</span>

===Inter-Countries=== 
**Text: Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan should substantially increase their natural gas exports to Asia and Europe and construct pipelines to China, India, and Europe that do not go through Russia.**

Central Asia has tons of natural gas and infrastructure -- solves better -- 1AC author
__Ratner et al, 2012__ specialist in energy policy, other authors include *Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, *Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and *Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs (Michael, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” Congressional Research Service, 3/13/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf
Asia is a growing prospect for... ...natural gas in the Aral Sea region

==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 
Infrastructure development is the essence of modern securitization – it translates the normal function of life into the discourse of security
__Lundborg and Vaughan-Williams, 10__ (Tom Lundborg, The Swedish Institute of International Affairs, Nick Vaughan-Williams, University of Warwick, “There’s More to Life than Biopolitics: Critical Infrastructure, Resilience Planning, and Molecular Security,” Paper prepared for the SGIR Conference, Stockholm, 7-10 September, 2010)
While the terrain of security... ...takes place

The dream of security produces apocalypse – constructions of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape
Peter __Coviello 2k__, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, [Queer Frontiers, p. 39-40]
Perhaps. But to claim that... ...can scarcely be done without

Alternative: Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought
Mark __Neocleous 08__, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 2008, [Critique of Security, 185-6]
The only way out of... ...enough to return the gift

===Capitalism=== 
Transportation infrastructure is an explicitly political tool to organize space to benefit of the powerful and economic elite
Zachary __Callen 9__, Prof of Political Science at Alleghany College, “THE SEAMS OF THE STATE: INFRASTRUCTURE AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS IN AMERICAN STATE BUILDING,” Dissertation at the University of Chicago, 2009 ([[http://gradworks.umi.com/3369449.pdf]])
However, beyond just... ...power to order space

Capitalism’s drive for material makes crisis and extinction inevitable.
__Meszaros 95__ (prof Philosophy & Political Theory, <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Istvan Meszaros, 1995, Professor at University of Sussex, England, “Beyond Capital: Toward a Theory of Transition”)</span>
With regard to its... ...most uncritical defenders

Our alternative is to refuse the capitalist action in the face of the crisis presented by the Affirmative and do nothing.
__Herod 04__ - James Herod, 2004, “Getting Free”, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm
It is time to try to... ...even to extinction

Method is the foremost political question because one must understand the existing social totality before one can act on it—grounding the sites of political contestation or knowledge outside of labor and surplus value merely serve to humanize capital and prevent a transition to a society beyond oppression.
__Tumino 01__ - Stephen Tumino, prof. of English at Pitt, 2001, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More than Ever”, Red Critique, p. online
Any effective political... ...masquerades as social theory

===Lacan=== 
They take a stance against discrimination and congratulate themselves on politically correct progress, without ever disturbing the fundamental fantasy that makes oppression function. These small acts of transgression are part of what makes the fantasy possible and cedes the political to the right.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zizek 93</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, Tarrying with the Negative, p. 211-214)</span>
And yet in spite of... ...genuine leftist alternative

The politics of utopia are responsible for the worst acts of violence—the failure of the fantasy to be fully realized causes us to project that failure onto the other
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stavrakakis 99</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 101-102) </span>
In order to realize... ...cause of this misfortune

Lacanian politics are a genuine political alternative. If it is impossible to fully represent the real, then we have no choice but to institutionalize the Lack or design politics around doubt.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stavrakakis</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> 99</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98)</span>
According to my reading... ...transformed ethical framework

===Foucault=== 
Transportation infrastructure is a just a way for the state to securitize the transactions of the market through normalizing the social body.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nadesan 08</span>__ Professor Social & Behavioral Sciences, ASU, in ‘8 [Majia Holmer, “Governmentality, Biopower, and Everyday Life”, pg. 51]
From Foucault's perspective... ...or as requiring government

The problem-solution framework of the 1ac expedites biopolitical domination of populations and guarantees perpetual policy failure.
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Dillion and Reid 2k</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics, University of Lancaster and Julian Reid, “Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency,” ALTERNATIVES: SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION & HUMANE GOVERNANCE v. 25 n. 1, January/March 2000, npg.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">As a precursor to global... ...Foucauldian 'biopower' ways</span>

Biopower sets the stage for our own extinction
Mitchell __Dean 01__, Professor, Sociology, Macquarie University, STATES OF IMAGINATION: ETHNOGRAPHIC EXPLORATIONS OF THE POSTCOLONIAL STATE, ed. T.B. Hansen & F. Stepputat, 2001, p. 53-54.
Consider again the... ..."massacres become vital"

Thus the alt: vote negative to endorse imminent criticism of the logics founding the 1ac. <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Criticism is the ultimate responsibility of intellectuals, necessary to ensure that reforms and revolutions don’t replicate the problems they seek to address.</span>
Michel __Foucault 71__, Professor, College de France, “Human Nature: Justice Versus Power,” Noam Chomsky Debates with Michel Foucault, International Philosophers Project, 1971. Available from the World Wide Web at: http://www.chomsky.info/debates/1971xxxx.htm, accessed 4/30/05.
"It seems to me... ..apparent revolutionary process."

===Gregorian Calendar=== 

The 1AC's unconditional use of 12:60 mechanisms of time makes time into a mechanical structure that destroys our inner harmony and synchronization with nature, ensuring planetary destruction. Individually endorsing the 13-Moon calendar system is a critical first step in re-orienting ourselves with the biosphere and creating global peace.
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SkyTime 12.19.15.0.0</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Tzolkin Date: 11 Ahau, Haab Date: 8 Muan, Lord of the Night is G9, GC 1.17.08. “13 Moon Mission” http://www.13moon.com/time-is-art.htm, accessed 12.19.15.6.17, GC 6.2.08]</span>
The Law of Time makes clear... ...conscious spiritual evolution

===Introna=== 
Transportation infrastructure emancipates status quo ontological connections (through the development of ethical insider vs. unethical outsiders). Because the 1ac stockpiles into the standard reserve, the outcomes are violence and genocide. The only way to escape this is to vote negative to affirm the infinite value of all forms of Being.
__Introna 9__ **–** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “Ethics and the Speaking of Things,” //Theory, Culture & Society// 2009 vol 26 no 4, 25-46)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the ethics of hybrids... ...letting-be of all beings</span>

===Badiou=== 
They use totalizing ethical principles to remove us from particular needs by exposing us to an apriori Evil. Their humanist framework is diametrically opposed because of nihilism.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Badiou 1</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, Professor of Philosophy at Ecole Normale Superieure Paris, France, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 8-14)</span>
Since we have entirely... ...are taken into consideration

Their responsibility to the Other violates utilitarianism. Any absolute obligations engage in moral absolutism. Instead, ethics must be rooted in situational decisions to enhance difference. No ethical savviness makes extinction inevitable.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hallward 1</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, PhD: Ethics, Professor of Modern European Philosophy at Middlesex University, Editor of the journal of Radical Philosophy, Contributed to Angelaki: Journal of the Theoretical Humanities, "Ethics: an Essay on the Understanding of Evil, 2-4)</span>
Building on these foundations... ...any 'conceptualization' by philosophy

The alternative is to shift to a universalizing ethic. Ethics cannot be tied to single situations without the biopolitical sphere becoming overcontrolling recreating the 1ac harms and serial policy failure. The affirmative's attempt to establish Truths is only a simulacra of ethics. The implication is a Holocaust extermination replication.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Badiou 98</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alain, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, //Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,// 14-16)</span>
Every collective will to... ...the shantytowns of Kinshasa

===Empire=== 
First, the affirmative’s appeal to the state to securitize people with disabilities is co-productive with the formation of "menace identities" that mark empire’s enemies for disposal.
__McRuer in '10__, George Washington University, in '10 [Robert, “Disability Nationalism in Crip Times”, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, Volume 4, Number 2]
In this geopolitical... ...studies' focus on both

And, this smoothes and consolidates the operations of empire, ensuring global violence and unending murder of abberent others.
__Agathangelou et al in '8__, Political Science and Women's Studies at York University, Toronto, [Anna M. & Daniel Bassichis, and Tamara L. Spira, “Intimate Investments: Homonormativity, Global Lockdown, and the Seductions of Empire“ Radical History Review Issue 100, Winter]
To (re)consolidate itself... ...mention or attention

===Virilio/Biopower/Ableism=== 
Freedom of mobility is a ruse:
Transportation infrastructure produces docile bodies who do not possess the potential for mobility but are compelled to never stop moving in order to perform quotidian functions. Frictionless movement becomes a death march of mobility.
__Sager 6__ [Tore, Department of Civil and Transport Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, “Freedom as Mobility: Implications of the Distinction between Actual and Potential Travelling,” Mobilities, Vol. 1, No. 3]
Bauman emphasizes that... ...no one rests in peace

Transportation infrastructure individuates consumption through social diffusion, ramping up demand, locking in mobility for the affluent reproduces domination and exclusion from vital social functions. Technologies of efficiency police the population through the super-panopticon of perpetual surveillance.
__Andrejevic 3__ [Mark, Fairfield University, “Monitored Mobility in the Era of Mass Customization,” Space and Culture, Vol. 6, No. 2]
Surely this dramatic... ...but on its certainty

The expert discourses that circulate around transportation produce the normative travelling body. The affirmative disciplines the citizen into an efficient consumer while excluding bodies not fit for transit. Mobility planning manages micro-practices in order to secure the economic function of the city.
__Bonham 6__ [Jennifer, The Editorial Board of the Sociological Review “Transport: disciplining the body that travels”]
The discipling of the... ...day conduct of travel

===Paternalism=== 
The aff unilaterally imposes colonialist principles—the narrative of success and failure of federal policy posits Indians as passive recipients of legal salvation
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Williams 96</span>__ - J.D. Harvard Law School, Professor University of Arizona's James E. Rogers College of the Law, serving as the E. Thomas Sullivan Professor of Law and American Indian Studies and Director of the Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program. (Robert A. Jr.* “‘THE PEOPLE OF THE STATES WHERE THEY ARE FOUND ARE OFTEN THEIR DEADLIEST ENEMIES’: THE INDIAN SIDE OF THE STORY OF INDIAN RIGHTS AND FEDERALISM” Citation: 38 Ariz. L. Rev. 981 1996, accessed via Hein Online)
After the dramatic opening... ...of Indian rights and federalism

This sovereignty denying narrative enables colonialism and violent exploitation
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Endres 09</span>__- Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Utah
(Danielle, “The Rhetoric of Nuclear Colonialism: Rhetorical Exclusion of American Indian Arguments in the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Siting Decision,” //Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies.// Vol. 6, No. 1, March 2009, pp. 39_60)
Nuclear Colonialism as a... ...supersedes the political definition

Alt—reject the aff’s unitary custodian positioning to reinstate a collaborative relationship with Indians—only starting from a point of decentralized compromise can solve
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Williams 96</span>__ - J.D. Harvard Law School, Professor University of Arizona's James E. Rogers College of the Law, serving as the E. Thomas Sullivan Professor of Law and American Indian Studies and Director of the Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program. (Robert A. Jr.* “‘THE PEOPLE OF THE STATES WHERE THEY ARE FOUND ARE OFTEN THEIR DEADLIEST ENEMIES’: THE INDIAN SIDE OF THE STORY OF INDIAN RIGHTS AND FEDERALISM” Citation: 38 Ariz. L. Rev. 981 1996, accessed via Hein Online)
"Deadliest Enemies"... ...our federal system of government

===Arendt=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s call to action is a clever excuse to embrace thoughtlessness. Their common sense impacts are nothing more cliché ridden stock phrases which create absolutions of truth and enable the re-deployment of man kind’s worst atrocities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hannah __Arendt 81__, Philosopher and Political Theorist Extraordinaire, THE LIFE OF THE MIND, 1981, p. 1-5, Google Books. Edited with an Introduction by PETER BAEHR – L)</span>
Factually, my preoccupation with... ...possessed and used it."

A commitment to action justified in the self-evident truth of mortality runs parallel to the fear and paranoia experienced in the Nazi state. The result is the rise of the war-machine where upon destruction moves outward and comes full circle culminating in societal suicide. This makes the violence of the status quo miniscule by comparison. The coming rivers of blood will no longer be a thing to avoid but the ideal to perpetuate.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gilles __Deleuze and__ Felix __Guattari 87__, Frenchie Philosophizers, A Thousand Plateaus, p. 230-231, 1987, Google Books, –L)</span>
We cannot say that one of... ...lines pale by comparison

Engagement in Socratic inquiry means constantly asking why to create knowledge as a point of reference
Only through such regression can we move away from the absolute truth claims present in the 1ac. It is our only chance of solving both the aff and neg impacts. <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Thus the Alternative is (to): Vote Negative to engage the Socratic form of inquiry and strip the affirmative of their dogmatic calls to action.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hannah __Arendt 81__, Philosopher and Political Theorist Extraordinaire, THE LIFE OF THE MIND, 1981, p. 171-175, Google Books.– L)</span>
Socrates, at any rate, is commonly... ...is share them with each other

===Nancy=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The two parts of this affirmative are contradictory – the inclusion-exclusion dichotomy means we can’t “include minorities” by using public transit.</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dhamoon 05</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Rita Dhamoon, Department of Political Science, University of British Columbia “Beyond Inclusion Politics: Reconstituting the Political Order”, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2005/Dhamoon.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Inclusion is generally presented... ...reinscribed within a nationalist framework</span>

The methodology of the affirmative creates a myth of community that justifies exclusion of the other. The alternative is to deconstruct the myth of the community.
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ridler et al. ‘9</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Law and Critique © Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2009 Editors’ Introduction: ‘The Politics of the Border/The Borders of the Political’ Ben Golder1 , Victoria Ridler2 and Illan Rua Wall3 (1) Faculty of Law, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia (2) School of Law, Birkbeck College, University of London, Malet Street, London, WC1E 7HX, UK (3) Department of Law, Oxford Brookes University, Headington Hill, Oxford, OX3 0BP, UK Published online: 31 March 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What, then, can we call the politics... ...to reassert its openness.</span>

Upholding the idea of community destroys being and ensures mass genocide
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Glowacka 6</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Culture Machine, Vol 8 (2006) Community and the Work of Death: Thanato-Ontology in Hannah Arendt and Jean-Luc Nancy, Dorota Glowacka ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF HUMANITIES; ADJUNCT PROFESSOR MA(Wroclaw), PhD(SUNY)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Why is the idea of community... ...of the Western </span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">metaphysical</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> subject</span>

===Hillman=== 
Their vision of the end of war as peace masks the ongoing psychic violence caused by a denial of our fundamental love of war.
James __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hillman 4</span>__, Retired Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 2004, p. 31-33.
The specific syndrome... ...boot-camp basic training

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Peace is merely the absence of war – it leaves us in a state of psychic numbness</span>
James __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hillman 4</span>__, Retired Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 2004, p. 30-31.
The worst of war is... ...declared for a sword

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Alternative: Text – Reject the affirmative in order to embrace our love of war.</span>
Only the alt solves; we cannot define or understand “peace” until we accept a paradigm shift, an embracement of our love for war. Scientific approaches that define war in body counts, in facts and terms that mask our natural sides.
James __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hillman 4</span>__, Retired Director, Jung Institute, A TERRIBLE LOVE OF WAR, 2004, p. 1-3
We can never prevent... ...the purpose of this book

===Buddhism=== 
If we do not search for and then embrace the part of our ego that recreates the dualisms presented in the 1AC, we will be doomed to self-annihilation -- turns the aff.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Walter A. </span><span class="addmd">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Davis 1</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “Deracination: historicity, Hiroshima, and the tragic imperative”, Pg. 93-96, 2-2001</span>
War also provides the... ...void itself of Eros

==Performance== 
===Dada=== 
The alternative is to performatively engage in the Twelve Commandments highlighted in the "DADA MANIFESTO" by voting negative.

<span style="color: #666666; display: block;"><span style="color: #009933;">www.youtube.com/watch?v=bIsfZV9S2zI</span></span>
==Strats== 
===Valley=== 
__Round 1 - Whitney Young DV (MTS)__
1NC: Elections DA, States CP, Security K, Oil DA, Dedev DA, Case
2NR: Dedev DA, Condo Good
2AR: Condo Bad

__Round 3 - Blake SW (NIB)__
1NC: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Elections DA, Cap K, Dedev DA, Case
2NR: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Dedev DA, Case

__Round 6 - Glenbrooks North BM (NIB)__
1NC: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Elections DA, Cap K, Dedev DA, Case
2NR: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Elections DA

===University of Minnesota, Twin Cities=== 
__Round 4 - Saint Paul Central SW (Ruralism)__
1NC: T: Maintenance, States CP, Spending DA, Rationalized Planning CP, Elections DA, Lacan K, Case
2NR: Spending DA, Case

__Round 5 - Minneapolis South BO (Space Elevators)__
1NC: T: Transportation Infrastructure, ESA CP, Russian Nationalism DA, Ground-Based CP, Elections DA, Case
2NR: EU CP, Elections DA, Case

===Hopkins=== 
__Round 2 - Minneapolis South EW (Disabilities)__
1NC: Foucault K, Introna K, Spending DA, Elections DA, Case
2NR: Introna K
2AR: No Alt Text Bad

__Round 3 - Minneapolis South DG (Disabilities)__
1NC: Elections DA, Badiou K, Spending DA, Introna K, Case
2NR: Introna K

__Round 5 - Edina WO (NIB)__
1NC: T: Direct Funding, ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Dedev DA, Case
2NR: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Dedev DA, Case
2AR: PICs Bad

===Iowa Caucus=== 
__Round 2 - OPRF MM (Relational Planning)__
1NC: Plan Flaw, Lacan K, Shoes PIC, States CP, World Government CP, Spending DA
2NR: World Government CP

__Round 3 - Lane Tech SM (NIB)__
1NC: T: Loan Guarantees, Texas Secession DA, Security K, Elections DA, Plan Flaw, Case
2NR: Case

__Round 5 - Iowa City High VG (Seabasing)__
1NC: T: In the US, Spending DA, Elections DA, Crew Rotation CP, Plan Flaw, Case
2NR: T: In the US

===University of Michigan, Ann Arbor=== 
__Round 2 - Barstow AR (NIB)__
1NC: T: Investment, Texas Secession DA, States CP, Elections DA, Case
2NR: Case

__Round 3 - Lane Tech KR (Inland Waterways)__
1NC: Asian Carp PIC, Texas Secession DA, States CP, Elections, Plan Flaw, Case
2NR: Texas Secession

__Round 5 - Pace DH (Port Dredging)__
1NC: States CP, Elections DA, Texas Secession DA, Case
2NR: States CP, Texas Secession DA

===Humboldt=== 
__Round 1 - Eden Prairie GH (Port Dredging)__
1NC: T: Transportation, Coercion DA, Dedev CP, Security K, Elections DA, Case
2NR: Dedev CP, Coercion DA, Security K, Case

__Round 3 - Eagan BR (NIB)__
1NC: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Dedev DA, Elections DA, Case
2NR: Elections, Case

__Round 5 - Eden Prairie RR (NIB)__
1NC: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Dedev DA, Elections DA, Case
2NR: ITS PIC, Texas Secession DA, Case

===Capitol Classic=== 
__Round 2 - Roseville GP (CCS)__
1NC: T: Transportation Infrastructure, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Sunshades CP, Spending DA, Case
2NR: Sunshades CP, Case

__Round 4 - Minneapolis South GT (Disabilities)__
1NC: Lacan K, Empire K, States CP, Prenatal Screening CP, Spending DA, Case
2NR: Condo Good, Prenatal Screening CP, Spending DA, Case

__Round 6 - Eden Prairie TV (Buses)__
1NC: T: Substantial Investment, States CP, Spending DA, Sunshades CP, Case
2NR: States CP, Case

===Glenbrooks=== 
__Round 2 - Pace FQ (HSR)__
1NC: Death Cult, Texas Secession DA, States CP, Foucault K, Case
2NR: Death Cult, Texas Secession DA, States CP

__Round 3 - Pace LB (Title XI)__
1NC: Death Cult, Minor Repairs, Virilio/Biopower/Ableism K, States CP, Case
2NR: Death Cult, Case

__Round 6 - College Prep PH (Port Dredging)__
1NC: Death Cult, Coercion DA, Texas Secession DA, Hillman K, Dedev DA, Case
2NR: Dedev DA

===JV State=== 
__Round 1 - Minneapolis South TT (Disabilities)__
1NC: Lacan K, Prenatal Screening CP, States CP, Spending DA, Texas Secession DA, Case
2NR: Texas Secession DA, Case

__Round 4 - Eden Prairie FG (NIB)__
1NC: Death Cult, Hillman K, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Case
2NR: Texas Secession DA, Case

__Round 5 - Eden Prairie GH (Port Dredging)__
1NC: Death Cult, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, Case

===Dowling Catholic=== 
__Round 1 - Park Hill CF (Natives)__
1NC: T: Maintenance, Lacan K, States CP, Spending DA, Texas Secession DA, Paternalism K, Case
2NR: States CP, Spending DA

__Round 4 - Glenbrooks South MP (LNG)__
1NC: T: Energy, Arendt K, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Case (absolute K dump ~ 8)
2NR: Texas Secession DA, Case
2AR: Condo Bad

__Round 6 - SF Roosevelt KM (DAR)__
1NC: T: Public, Death Cult, Texas Secession DA, Spending DA, States CP, Lacan K, Case
2NR: Texas Secession DA, Case

===Blake=== 
__Round 2 - Washburn JA (Zizek)__
1NC: Framework, Foucault K, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Nancy K, Case
2NR: States CP, Texas Secession DA

__Round 4 - Edgemont XK (Freight Rail)__
1NC: ASPEC, States CP, Spending DA, Texas Secession DA, Death Cult, Case
2NR: No TKO double-turn/Condo Good/Extinction+Suffering Inevitable (~weirdest round ever)

__Round 5 - Lexington MR (Guam)__
1NC: T: Military, Death Cult, Hillman K, Buddhism K, Spending DA, Consult Japan CP, Case
2NR: Death Cult

===National Qualifiers=== 
__Round 2 - Rosemount AS (NextGen)__
1NC: T: Fixed Physical Assets, Hagel DA, Privatization CP, Baudrillard K, Spending DA, Case
2NR: Case

__Partial Semis - Edina LP (Disabilities)__
1NC: States CP, Arendt K, Spending DA, Hagel DA, Case
2NR: Arendt K

===University of California, Berkeley=== 
__Round 2 - Bellarmine SV (Levinas)__
1NC: Framework, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Lacan K, Case
2NR: Case

__Round 4 - Lone Peak MS (Natives)__
1NC: USPEC, Death Cult, Gregorian Calendar K, Dada
2NR: Death Cult

__Round 5 - James Logan GN (MTS)__
1NC: USPEC, Death Cult, Gregorian Calendar K, Dada
2NR: Death Cult

===JV Nationals=== 
__Round 4 - Glenbrooks South DL (LNG)__
1NC: T: Energy, Death Cult, ASPEC, Immigration Reform DA, Inter-Countries CP, Introna K, Case
2NR: Death Cult

__Round 5 - Pace LR (Title XI)__
1NC: T: Loan Guarantee, Death Cult, Anti-Framework, States CP, Texas Secession DA, Arendt K, Case
2NR: Anti-Framework, Case