[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Plan== 
==<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Inland Waterways plan -- The United States federal government should increase investment for modernization and maintenance of inland waterway system in the United States. Requisite funding provided. </span>== 
==<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Federal Highway Bank plan- Through then existing means, the United States federal government should adopt a "Fix it First, Expand it Second, and Reward It Third" approach as per the recommendations of Levinson and Kahn. Requisite funding provided.</span>== 
==Berkeley - Nuke Advantage for IWW== 
Contention__: Uh-oh, spaghetti-Oh

An Inland Waterway collapse will devastate crucial back-up systems at plants and cause nuclear power plant meltdowns.
Union of Concerned Scientists 12
(“Dam Failures and Flooding at U.S. Nuclear Plants”, October, [[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nuclear_power/floods-from-dam-failure-10-19-12.pdf%20accessed%20on%201/18|http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nuclear_power/floods-from-dam-failure-10-19-12.pdf accessed on 1/18]] RT)
Nuclear reactors are built next to rivers…, with heights of 40 feet or more

We will isolate several impacts to meltdowns:
First, Nuclear Meltdowns cause catastrophic radiation exposure to populations surrounding the plants
Lendmen, writer of the People’s Voice, 11
(Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan”, March 13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan%20accessed%20on%201/18|http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan accessed on 1/18]] RT)

On March 12, Stratfor Global Intelligence ….. What happened in Japan can occur anywhere.

Second, meltdowns risk collapse the overall US nuclear industry as backlash limits future developments. This backlash harms reliability of energy mix in the US
USA Today 11
(“Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants”, December 12, [[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1%20accessed%20on%201/18|http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1 accessed on 1/18]] RT)
There's never a shortage of things…, there's zero margin for major error.

Collapse of the nuclear power industry causes a shift to fossil fuels, spiking greenhouse gas emissions

Loudermilk 11
(Micah J., Research Associate for the Energy & Environmental Security Policy program with the Institute for National Strategic Studies at National Defense University, Contracted through ASE Inc, Small Nuclear Reactors and US Energy Security: Concepts, Capabilities, and Costs, May 31st, [[http://www.ensec.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=314:small-nuclear-reactors-and-us-energy-security-concepts-capabilities-and-costs&catid=116:content0411&Itemid=375]])

When discussing the energy security ….and expansion of the nation’s nuclear energy portfolio.

Other nations model US nuclear industry and energy transition
Colvin, president and chief executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute, 2004
(Joe, “Nuclear Energy: The Global Choice for the 21st Century” September 8, 2004, [[http://www.worldenergy.org/documents/congresspapers/colvinj0904.pdf]], accessed 2/4/13, Bill)

As new reactor construction ….accomplishments of the first part of the 21st century.

Global Warming is real and anthropogenic. Failure to prevent the tipping point causes multiple scenarios for death and extinction.
Prothero, Professor of Geology at Occidental College in Los Angeles, and Lecturer in Geobiology at the California Institute of Technology, 2012.
(Donald “How We Know Global Warming is Real and Human Caused” Skeptic VOl 17 iss 2)
<<How do we know that global warming …..the rest of these drowned cities would lie deep underwater.>>


==<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">1ac outline--Federal Highway Bank </span>== 

Contention 1: Inherency
Status quo focus on new highway projects prioritizes the wrong thing—we need to fix it not build new. Failure to change approach to highways guarantees future collapse of the system.
Levinson, Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation, and Kahn, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, 2011
(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, February 2011, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/Final_KAHNDiscussPaper_Feb2011.pdf]]</span>, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)
Unfortunately, __we fail to realize …investments have been¶ falling in recent decades.3__
__Advantage 1: The Economy__
Despite improvements in jobs numbers, Economic growth is sluggish—must act now to jumpstart growth
Wiseman , Associated Press, 12
(Paul, “WHY IT MATTERS: Agonizing US economic recovery follows Great Recession” October 23, 2012, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.startribune.com/politics/national/175425221.html?refer=y]]</span>, accessed 10/24/12, Bill)
__The job market is brutal__…their spending and paid down debts.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Infrastructure, specifically highways, key to economic growth and competitiveness We isolate several internal links:</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">First, Investment tradeoff:</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Underinvestment in road repairs guarantees short term deterioration. Resulting vehicle repairs and transporation delays drains resources that could be used for innovation and growth . </span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Halsey, </span></span>Washington Post Staff Writer,<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> ’11</span></span>
(Ashley, “Decaying infrastructure costs U.S. billions each year, report says”, July 27, 2011, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/decaying-infrastructure-costing-us-billions-report-says/2011/07/27/gIQAAI0zcI_story.html]]</span>, accessed 10/15/12, Bill)
¶ As Congress debates how to …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">be invested in innovation and expansion</span></span>,” Landau said.
Fortunately, the plan solves. Rebalancing our approach to infrastructure investment with a focus on enhancement of existing infrastructure solves best and efficiently to stimulate growth
Levinson, Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation, and Kahn, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, 2011
(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, Policy Brief, February 2011, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/FinalBRIEF_KAHN_Feb2011.pdf]]</span>, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)
Does this proposal put additional …this proposal also would mean more environmentally
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Second internal link is jobs:</span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Investing in highway infrastructure is a HUGE boost to the economy through jobs AND it’s the best type of fiscal spending to get jobs market moving </span></span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Boushey</span></span>, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previous economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and the Center for Economic and Policy Research and the Economic Policy Institute. Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> 11</span></span>
(Heather, Center for American Progress, 9/22/11, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html, Accessed 9/8/12, JA)

__Investing in infrastructure creates jobs and …__lump-sum tax rebate adds $1.22 to the economy.[7]
<span style="color: black;">Continued Slow economic growth causes US retrenchment from international affairs </span>
<span style="color: black;">Khalizad 11</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, February 8, 2011, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]</span><span style="color: black;">, accessed 11/3/12, Bill)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">The </span>__<span style="color: black;">current __recession is the<span style="background: white;">…retrenchment of the United States internationally.</span>__</span>
US economic decline escalates international conflicts, drawing in great powers, eroding international institutions that mitigate conflict, intensifying incentives for proliferation and terrorism which risk miscalc
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Harris and Burrows 09</span></span> – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit
(Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[https://csis.org/publication/twq-revisiting-future-geopolitical-effects-financial-crisis-april-2009]]</span>, accessed tm 9/8)
Of course, the report encompasses more …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span></span>
__Advantage 2: State Budgets__
States face enormous fiscal strains. Their on going struggles require federal involvement in transportation infrastructure. States collapse crushes their ability to carry out necessary state programs.
Lav, created the State Fiscal Analysis Initiative, a network of nonprofit organizations that work on state budget issues/<span style="background: white; color: #434749;"> teaches state and local finance at Johns Hopkins University School of Government</span>, et al 10
(Iris J. Lav, Nicholas Johnson, Elizabeth McNichol, “ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FISCAL RELIEF NEEDED TO HELP STATES ADDRESS RECESSION’S IMPACT”, March 1, 2010
<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.cbpp.org/files/11-11-09stim.pdf]]</span>, accessed 10/13/12, Bill)

__There are a number of reasons for__ … the weak economy and preserve or create jobs.
<span style="background: white; color: black; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Much of their budget pressures come from infrastructure investment. States currently fund infrastructure —Federal involvement now necessary to ensure adoption of better investment models </span>
<span style="background: white; color: black;">COEA ‘12 </span>
<span style="background: white; color: black;">(Council of Economic Advisers, Department of Treasury “A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, March 23, 2012, </span>[[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf|__http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf__]], accessed 11/3/12, Bill<span style="background: white; color: black;">)</span>
Our analysis indicates that further __infrastructure …investment among American consumers and businesses.__
Scenario two is bioterrorism—
Bioterror attack is inevitable and will come before 2013
USA Today 09
(“Behind the scenes, sniffing for biological attacks; Anthrax mailings in 2001 inspired detection system”, October 9, 2009, Lexis, accessed 10/31/12, Bill)
In September 2005, BioWatch detected …__it easier to disseminate" and inhaled.__
State budget cuts destroys bioterror responsiveness
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">AHLERS ’11</span></span>- senior producer, transportation and regulation, for CNN (Mike M., “Bioterror security at risk”, December 20, http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2011/12/20/bioterror-security-at-risk/)
Recent and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;"> proposed budget cuts </span></span>…[[#_GoBack]]<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">attack or</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> deadly <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">disease outbreak</span></span></span>.
Because an attack is inevitable, minimizing the death toll is crucial – large casualties ensure nuclear retaliation
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">CONLEY ‘3</span></span> (Lt Col Harry W. is chief of the Systems Analysis Branch, Directorate of Requirements, Headquarters Air Combat Command (ACC), Langley AFB, Virginia. Air & Space Power Journal – Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">The number of</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> American <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">casualties</span> …<span style="background: lime; border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; mso-highlight: lime; padding: 0in;">promises</span><span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;"> had been made.</span></span></span>”48
That causes nuclear war
IRC ‘1 (11-20-1, “How should the U.S. prepare for possible attacks using biological and chemical weapons?” IRC, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/faq/0111bioterror.html]]</span>)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Nuclear <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">deterrence</span> is a…</span></span>make the U.S. a pariah state.
Advantage 3 is Warming:
<span class="TagsChar1"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Warming is happening and its anthropogenic </span></span>
<span class="TagsChar1"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Rahmstorf</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span class="TagsChar1"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 </span></span>
<span class="TagsChar1"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">(Stefan, __Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto__, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49 accessed </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20i|http://books.google.com/books?id=NPUBsNEphrQC&pg=PA42&lpg=PA42&dq=%22+It+is+time+to+turn+to+statement+B:+human+activities+are+altering+the+climate.+This+can+be+broken+into+two+parts.+The+first+is+as+follows:+global+climate+is+warming.+This+is+by+now+a+generally+undisputed+point+%28except+by+novelist+Michael+Crichton%29,+so+we+deal+with+it+only+briefly.+The+two+leading+%22&source=bl&ots=QLUOsFi2z&sig=OTcZXCPG2PltsCuwcg_xBkM83Pg&hl=en&ei=KNwITqqJNIabtwfZ_cmjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22%20It%20is%20time%20to%20turn%20to%20statement%20B%3A%20human%20activities%20are%20altering%20the%20climate.%20This%20can%20be%20broken%20into%20two%20parts.%20The%20first%20is%20as%20follows%3A%20global%20climate%20is%20warming.%20This%20is%20by%20now%20a%20generally%20undisputed%20point%20%28except%20by%20novelist%20Michael%20Crichton%29%2C%20so%20we%20deal%20with%20it%20only%20briefly.%20The%20two%20leading%20%22&f=false]]</span><span class="TagsChar1"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> 6-27 TM) </span></span>
It is time to turn to statement…reality with which we need to deal.
Squo focus on building new highways causes congestion
Levinson, Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation, and Kahn, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, 2011
(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, February 2011, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/Final_KAHNDiscussPaper_Feb2011.pdf]]</span>, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)
The fundamental causes of these problems… have been¶ falling in recent decades.3
Congestion increases emissions
<span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri;">Page</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, Staff Writer for Burlington Free Press, </span></span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri;">2012</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Candace, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">A simple formula,</span>// June 23, 2012, </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.burlingtonfreepress.com/article/20120624/GREEN/306240010/Vehicle-pollution-follows-simple-formula?odyssey=mod%7Cnewswell%7Ctext%7CFRONTPAGE%7Cs]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, July 2, 2012; FAS)</span></span>
(<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">The longer</span></span> those <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">cars are…</span></span>Ozone, too, can cause respiratory illness.)
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Green house gas emissions cause accelerating rates of climate change—that collapses civilization</span>**
<span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri;">Figueres</span></span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">,</span>__<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, February 15, </span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri;">2011</span></span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">[Christiana, Security Address to the Congress of Deputies of Spain at the Centro Superior de Estudios de la Defensa Nacional in Madrid,” http://climateprogress.org/2011/02/15/food-crisis-climate-change-figueres/, Accessed 6/12/11] SM </span>
In its context, it is alarming to admit that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">…let alone pay the cost to do so. </span></span>
The plan solves congestion on the roads and creates flexibility using increased user fees at peak hours
Levinson, Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation, and Kahn, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, 2011
(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, Policy Brief, February 2011, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/FinalBRIEF_KAHN_Feb2011.pdf]]</span>, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)
__<span style="color: #141413; mso-fareast-language: JA;">Congestion pricing can help governments…user fees and pricing schemes.</span>__




Thus we offer the following plan:
At the start of the 113th Congress,
the United States federal government should __<span style="color: black;">dedicate federal transportation financing to maintain, repair, rehabilitate,reconstruct, replace, and enhance existing transportation</span>__
__<span style="color: black;">infrastructure that is part of the NHS by restricting the use of the federal Highway Trust Fund from</span>__<span style="color: black;"> __adding capacity to the existing system. Requisite funding provided.__ </span>
The USFG should increase its transportation infrastructure investment reform federal transportation financing by adopting a “__<span style="color: black;">Fix It First, Expand It Second, and Reward It Third approach to transportation infrastructure investment. Requisite funding provided. </span>__

Contention 3: Federal action on highways necessary
<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">States require federal assistance---they can’t do it alone </span>
<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Levinson, </span><span style="color: black;">Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation,<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> and Kahn</span>, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">2011</span></span>
<span style="color: black;">(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, February 2011,</span><span style="color: purple;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/Final_KAHNDiscussPaper_Feb2011.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black;">, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Such skewed investment patterns…as they plan their</span>__
__<span style="color: black;">transportation infrastructure.</span>__
<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">The plan’s focus on “fix it first” necessary to improve national highway system </span>
<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Levinson, </span><span style="color: black;">Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation,<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> and Kahn</span>, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">2011</span></span>
<span style="color: black;">(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, February 2011,</span><span style="color: purple;">[[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/Final_KAHNDiscussPaper_Feb2011.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black;">, accessed 10/9/12, Bill)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">To shift the investment focus …nation’s aging infrastructure.</span>__
==1AC Inland Waterways Outline-== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Contention 1-Inherency </span>
Failure to understand importance of inland waterway system means inadequate funding and collapsing lock system—failure to act now risks a system that is functionally obsolete by 2020
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">American Society of Civil Engineers 2008 </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">*</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Infrastructure Report Card, “Inland Waterways”, 2008, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/fact-sheet/inland-waterways]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, accessed 9/4/12, Bill)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Because of their ability...... **__lock projects each year.__** </span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Additionally, current “fix when fail” policy towards system ensures delays and collapse of inland waterways</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Boselovic</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, award winner for business and investigative reporting, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;">2012</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Len “THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS” , Pittsburgh Post 3/18/20</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;">12 </span><span style="color: #000099; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12078/1217742-113.stm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Faced with flat funding,...... where they are headed.</span>
Congress must act to increase funding—only increasing funding for modernization of inland waterways addresses problems of SQ infrastructure to improve economy and jobs. Funding for waterway modernization is inevitable – cost overruns and stop-go payment makes status quo policies collapse under themselves
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 2012</span>
(Editorial Board Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “Water torture: Congress needs to act on decaying locks and dams,” March 25, 2012, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12085/1219052-192.stm]]</span> accessed tm 9/8)

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Congress bears the......</span> "We told you so."


Contention 2—Advantages
Advantage 1: It’s the Economy
New job numbers show economy on rebound but sluggish—manufacturing jobs, which had been consistently improving, slowing
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lee and Lauter, 9/7/2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Don and David, __Los Angeles Times__ September 7, 2012 </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-jobs-20120908,0,2999579,full.story]]</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> accessed tm 9/8)</span>

WASHINGTON — <span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Job growth slowed...... American economic activity.</span>


Inland waterways system provides both an opportunity and a risk to the economy.Ongoing inland waterway breakdowns harming economic recovery and increase transportation costs
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Davidson, USA Today Reporter, 12 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Paul, “USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy,” 5/20/12, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, Accessed 9/6/12, JA) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inland waterways quietly......</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Bridges are overtaxed.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Additionally, </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inland waterway investment prerequisite for US goods international competitiveness—failure to investment now ensure collapse of integral component of US economy, costing jobs and economic growth </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gibbs, </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Chairman of house committee on transportation and infrastructure, subcommittee on water resources and environment, **2012**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Bob, HOUSE COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT Committee Hearing, April 18 2012 Lexis accessed tm 9/8) </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">In this Committee hearing,...... comments you may have. </span>


Specifically, we isolate two internal links to the economy that investment in the inland waterways solves
First manufacturing exports—
Manufacturing exports more significant to recovery than resolving debt issue—must improve US manufacturing position internationally
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Council on Competitiveness 2011</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(US Manufacturing Competitiveness Initiative, “Voice of American Labor Leaders on Manufacturing Competitiveness,” Ignite 2.0 December 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.compete.org/images/uploads/File/PDF%20Files/Ignite_3.0_FINAL_.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, accessed 9/4/12, Bill) </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Perspectives on America’s Economic...... jobs in the United States. </span>


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Second internal link—jobs </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Beyond simple construction jobs, ripple effect through economy created through the plan </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">DeVol et al, 10 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Ross, chief research officer at the Milken Institute, a non-partisan, independent economic think tank, “Jobs for America”, January 2012, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nam.org/%7E/media/58F813B0D1E643DC91E564FE4C3B3C2F.ashx|http://www.nam.org/~/media/58F813B0D1E643DC91E564FE4C3B3C2F.ashx]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, accessed 9/4/12, Bill)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inland waterways</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> are part...... __be about 22,300 jobs.__</span>


Economic decline escalates international conflicts, drawing in great powers, eroding international institutions that mitigate conflict, intensifying incentives for proliferation and terrorism which risk miscalc
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Harris and Burrows 09</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[https://csis.org/publication/twq-revisiting-future-geopolitical-effects-financial-crisis-april-2009]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, accessed tm 9/8)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of course, the report encompasses......</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> more dog-eat-dog world.</span>


Advantage 2—Food insecurity
Failure to invest sufficiently in inland waterways system collapsing ability of US farmers to get their food to market—domestic and international
<span style="font-size: 16px;">US grain exports key to world food supply and food prices </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Attavanich et. al 11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">(Witsanu, “The Effect of Climate Change on Transportation Flows and Inland Waterways Due to Climate-Induced Shifts in Crop Production Patterns”, July 24-26 2011 </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/109241/2/AAEASelectedPaper_The%20Effect%20of%20Climate%20Change%20on%20Transportation%20Flows_13247.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Grain production plays...... (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2010).</span>


Delays caused by lack of investment have direct impact on domestic and global food prices
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">United Nations Economic and Social Council 8 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">SUMMARY __Recent increases in......__ or international levels. </span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">International food system on brink of collapse—scarcity is the new norm, US provided global food supply cushion necessary to stave off violence and conflict through the world </span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brown, president of the Earth Policy Institute, 11 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lester R.“The New Geopolitics of Food,” </span><span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_new_geopolitics_of_food]]</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In the United States, ...... **__have started to unravel.__**</span>


Specifically countries like China utilize imports of soybeans from the US in their food security calculations
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wong and Huang</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, Professorial Fellow and Research Assistant at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(China: An international Journal, Volume 10, number 1, “China’s Food Security and Its Global implications”, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Since China has basically...... China's food security.</span>
Even small disruptions in imports to China result in Chinese policy changes that contribute to huge disruptions to the entire global market
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wong and Huang</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">, Professorial Fellow and Research Assistant at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(China: An international Journal, Volume 10, number 1, “China’s Food Security and Its Global implications”, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">China accounts for 19.3 ......</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> maintaining strong food self-sufficiency. [End Page 114] </span>
Independently, food insecurity within China results in political instability and civil war along with famine effecting millions of Chinese; this political instability destabilize the entire region

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Yee </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> 2002</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> (Herbert, 2002, The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, Accessed 9/5/12, JA)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The fourth factor contributing...... neighbours and the world.</span>
That goes nuclear, draws in major powers
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Dibbs</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, Director Strategic and Defense Studies Centre, School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">2001</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold','serif';">Paul, Naval War College Review, Vol. 54, Iss. 1, “Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads,” Winter, Proquest, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]</span>
<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The areas of maximum danger......</span> when confronted with major crises.
==<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Add-ons</span>== 
----
=Negative= 
==Disads== 
ELECTIONS OBAMA GOOD

**A. Obama winning election now—national polls consensus**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Silver, politics poll guru, 9/8/12</span>
(Nate, New York Times, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/sept-8-conventions-may-put-obama-in-front-runners-position/]] accessed tm 9/13 )

Earlier in the … reflect his convention.

**B. Link- Infrastructure spending unpopular and seen as wasteful**
**Orski 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ken Orski, editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years ,02/05/2012, New Geography, Why Pleas to Increase Infrastructure Funding Fall on Deaf Ears, Accessed: 8/23/12, CD)</span>

Finding the resources … spent wisely and well.

**2. infrastructure will influence voters in November**
**Houston Chronicle May 18 2012**
**(“**Americans Value Highways and Bridges as a National Treasure”
[[http://www.chron.com/business/press-releases/article/Americans-Value-Highways-and-Bridges-as-a-3568488.php%20accessed%20tm%205/19|http://www.chron.com/business/press-releases/article/Americans-Value-Highways-and-Bridges-as-a-3568488.php accessed tm 5/19]] )

A new survey … reliable and safe."



**C. Obama will hold off Israel and prevent Iran strikes**
**Hurst, ’12** <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Stephen, AP, 4/18/12, [[http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Peace/2012/04/18/Romneys-foreign-policy-may-mean-hardball-is-back]], JD)</span>

Even so, Romney … have a nuclear weapon."

**2. If Israel or the US attacks Iran, a rapidly escalating war would break out in the Middle East and would engulf all the great powers**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Trabanco 9</span> (Jose M. A., writer for Global Research, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=11762]])

In case of an Israeli … middle of a powder keg.


FISCAL CLIFF DA
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A. Unique internal link -- Fiscal cliff is top priority for Obama—bipartisan agreement is possible with post election honeymoon. Failure to agree collapses the economy </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt; vertical-align: baseline;">Yellin, CNN Chief White House Correspondent, November 7, 2012</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">(Jessica, “Second Obama term would confront fiscal crisis before inauguration,” accessed at </span>[[http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/03/politics/obama-second-term/index.html|__http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/03/politics/obama-second-term/index.html__]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, DL)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__Obama will turn …__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> negotiations last summer.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">b. Plan breaks compromise spirit by seeking increase in funding for transportation investment. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">New spending on infrastructure like the plan has no political will and pushing it will only muddy the process</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; vertical-align: baseline;">Yellin, CNN Chief White House Correspondent, November 7, 2012</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">(Jessica, “Second Obama term would confront fiscal crisis before inauguration,” accessed at </span>[[http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/03/politics/obama-second-term/index.html|__http://www.cnn.com/2012/11/03/politics/obama-second-term/index.html__]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, DL)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.5pt; vertical-align: baseline;">The other bites … __opportunities seem limited.__</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">c. Impact—failure to resolve fiscal cliff collapse US economy risking war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US economic decline escalates international conflicts, drawing in great powers, eroding international institutions that mitigate conflict, intensifying incentives for proliferation and terrorism which risk miscalc</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char1">Harris and Burrows 09</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[https://csis.org/publication/twq-revisiting-future-geopolitical-effects-financial-crisis-april-2009]], accessed tm 9/8)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">While we continue … dog-eat-dog world.</span>
==[[#Negative-Counterplans]]Counterplans== 
STATE CP

**The 50 States of the United States should establish a State Infrastructure Bank in order to fund ___ at the local level.**

**States infrastructure banks are effective and economical funding mechanisms**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Slone</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Transportation Policy Analyst for The Council of State Governments,</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Sean, "State Infrastructure Banks | CSG Knowledge Center, 7/5/11, [[http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-infrastructure-banks]], accessed 9/13/12, JF)</span>

Benefits of a State … can be the result.
==[[#Negative-Kritiks]]Kritiks== 
SECURITY KRITIK

**Debates about shaping international relations are key, theories shape practice**
Steve <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Smith</span>, Prof of IR at U of Wales Aberysmyth, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">1996</span>
(Positivism and Beyond, pg. 13)

But the stakes … be the case

**Discourses of security foreclose the political to “dangerous” outsiders, this leads to paranoia and rapid military build-up, culminating in extinction**
Michael **Dillon**, Prof of Politics and International Relations, **1996**
(The politics of Security, pg. 130-131)

Our metaphysical politics … of the political

**Our alternative is to reject the 1AC’s invocation of security discourse—only direct action breaks the security fetish**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Neocleous 8</span>
[Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History of Brunel University, //Critique of Security//, Edinburgh University Press Ltd, page 185]

The only way … of our lives
==[[#Negative-Topicality]]Topicality== 
== == 
==[[#Negative-Case Offense]]== 

==Case Offense== 


<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 2587px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The plan solves congestion on the roads and creates flexibility using increased user fees at peak hours </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 2587px; width: 1px;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Levinson, </span>**Associate Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Minnesota and Director of the Networks, Economics, and Urban Systems (NEXUS) research group. He currently holds the Richard P. Braun/CTS Chair in Transportation,**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> and Kahn</span>**, Professor at the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Public Policy, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2011</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 2587px; width: 1px;">(David M Levinson Matthew E. Kahn, The Hamilton Project, “Fix It First, Expand It Second, Reward It Third: A New Strategy for America’s Highways”, Policy Brief, February 2011, [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/FinalBRIEF_KAHN_Feb2011.pdf]], accessed 10/9/12, Bill)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 2587px; width: 1px;">__<span style="color: #141413;">Congestion pricing can help governments…user fees and pricing schemes.</span>__</span>