[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===1ac Contention 1 - History=== 
====Roosevelt’s New Deal represents a fundamental shift in the history of American transportation infrastructure toward Keynesian management and integration of the capitalist market. Roads, airports and highways promised the end of unemployment but these infrastructure products instead enabled elite cooptation of infrastructure and ruthless global expansion==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 2008</span> [Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 No. 3 2008, Muse]

__By **using the**__ **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">lens </span>of political economy to focus on the New Deal's public works__**
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to recognize the historical impact of the New Deal's public works projects.</span>[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]
===1ac Contention 2 - Trajectory=== 
====Capitalism is unsustainable. The economic crisis has become second in its severity only to the Great Depression. This is specifically true in the context of transportation and the auto-industry==== 
Joel <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bergman 9 </span>(La Riposte editorial board, In Defense of Marxism contributor, “The Financial Crisis and the Auto Sector”, January 16th, http://www.marxist.com/financial-crisis-and-auto-sector.htm)
The crisis in the auto industry has reached huge proportions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and is now affecting nearly </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">mortgages, forcing them to go bankrupt and even live on the street.</span>
====Capitalism reinforces a mode of knowledge production that necessarily places the environment behind economic concerns, making its destruction inevitable –==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">York, '09</span>
University of Oregon Sociology associate professor and Organization and Environment coeditor, et al., May 09 (Richard, Brett Clark is assistant professor of sociology at North Carolina State University; John Bellamy Foster is editor of Monthly Review and professor of sociology at the University of Oregon, Monthly Review, “Capitalism in Wonderland”, accessed 7/2/09, Proquest)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The inherent incapacity of orthodox or neoclassical economics to take ecological and social costs into </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">, costing hundreds of millions, if not billions, of human lives. </span>
====Capitalism's inherently unstustainable relationship with the environment threatens extinction –==== 
Erik <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallenberg 10</span> (SocialistWorker correspondent, reviewer of books, some sort of Marxist, “Capitalism is not sustainable”, April 22nd, http://socialistworker.org/2010/04/22/capitalism-is-not-sustainable, accessed 28, June 2012)
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">FOSTER MAKES the case, as he has done elsewhere, that </span>environmental exploitation is
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
ecological collapse, unless there's a movement for a different kind<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of system.</span>
====Capitalism is the root cause of modern war –==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Magdoff</span> and Magdoff in ‘<span style="font-size: 13pt;">05</span> Harry Magdoff and Fred Magdoff editor of Monthly Review And professor of plant and soil science at the University of Vermont in Burlington “Approaching Socialism” http://www.monthlyreview.org/0705magdoffs1.htm pg.1

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Another part of the human condition</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">over the past two and a half centuries of</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">, compels capitalist countries to penetrate foreign markets and expand their market share.</span>

====Resisting the economic evaluation of populations by capitalism is the ultimate ethical obligation – Capitalism prevents value to life and causes everyday violence on a global scale that makes traditional impact calc impossible –==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek and Daly, '04</span> Slavoj Zizek and Glyn Daly, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, 2004, Conversations With Zizek, p. 14-16
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix. </span>
===1ac Contention 3 – Escape=== 
====It is time that we begin the abandonment of capitalist society.==== 
====Thus, the United States federal government should nationalize all transportation infrastructure.==== 
====Capitalism has failed to organize transportation. We must begin socialization of transportation as a whole. Voting affirmative embraces the foundations for nationalizing transportation==== 
<span class="createdby">Joel </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bergman 09</span><span class="createdby"> (</span><span class="articletextblurb">La Riposte editorial board, In Defense of Marxism contributor, “The Financial Crisis and the Auto Sector”, January 16th, http://www.marxist.com/financial-crisis-and-auto-sector.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is no band-aid solution to all of these problems. </span>There is
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that can save our jobs, communities and the environment from capitalist destruction.</span>

====The advocacy of the resolution enables us to envision a different relationship toward capital and the knowledge it produces. We must situate ourselves as intellectuals in a way that envisions a different assemblage of decision making powers. This provides the necessary basis to challenge capital itself. Make no mistake, our affirmative is not simple reformism but is the actualization of radical critique being injected into political decisionmaking==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meszaros 2008</span>[Istvan, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p323-328]
__The unreality of postulation the sustainable solution of the grave problems of our social order__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">synonymous with the withering away of the state as an ongoing historical enterprise. </span>
====Our affirmation of the resolution aligns transportation politics with concrete utopian thinking. Ethics is situated as the driving force but enables us opportunistic socialist reimagination of the social sphere.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitch 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Leo-, Professor of political science at York University, Co-founder and board member of Studies in Political Economy, Distinguished Research Professor [in Canada], Renewing Socialism: Transforming Democracy, Strategy and Imagination, p.184-186 ISBN: 978-0-85036-591-7, Acc: 06/29/12, LD)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But if such a healthy pessimism about capitalist progress was indeed growing as we entered </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">changing ourselves and the world (‘capability-of-becoming-other’</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>
====Also, prefer Marxist methodology. Only by rejecting the ideology of capital can we lay bare the structural causes of oppression and spark the revolutionary praxis necessary to build a classless society.==== 
Stephen <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tumino</span>__,__ prof. of English at Pitt, Spring <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2001</span>, “What is Orthodox Marxism and Why it Matters Now More Than Ever Before,” The Red Critique 1, Spring, [[http://www.redcritique.org/spring2001/whatisorthodoxmarxism.htm]]
<span class="underline">The "original" </span>ideas of Marxism are inseparable from their<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> effect as </span>"demystification
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Communist Party, Selected Works, 45) </span>to end social inequality forever<span class="underline">.</span>





=Negative= 

prev 2nrs:

UCA:

rd 2: T, complexity
semis: complexity

JV Harvard:

rd 1: cap k
rd 3: cap k, de-dev
rd 5: de-dev
octas: DnG
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]