[[toc]]
=Round 1 – 1NC V SPS – Brophy MS= 
==T Human== 

A. Interpretation - Exploration means to expand human presence to space
Logsdon, 9 – professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]]</span>)

Exploration as a Compelling Rationale… of the several “secondary objectives.”

==Commission CP== 

Will pass and doesn’t drain capital
Mayer ’07
(Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)
The conventional wisdom was that … came anywhere close to passing.

==Politics== 

Transportation will pass – robust bipartisan support
Javsicas 4/27/12 – executive director of Pennsylvanians for Transportation Solutions Inc (Peter, "Why Congress should adopt the Senate transportation bill" Philedelphia Daily News, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/20120427_Why_Congress_should_adopt_the_Senate_transportation_bill.html]]</span>)

The long-running congressional battle over … reason we should have to.

Congress won’t support – oil and coal lobbies
Mankins 8 (John C., Spring 2008, Ad Astra, “Space Based Solar Power” http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf)
AD ASTRA: In light of the growing … limitless energy from the sun

Obama’s leadership is key – resolves Keystone issues
Geman 4/24/12 – correspondent for The Hill (Ben, "Senate names highway bill conferees, setting up showdown on Keystone" The Hill, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/223303-keystone-endgame-inches-closer-as-senate-taps-highway-bill-conferees]]</span>)

The Senate has selected lawmakers … Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.).

Bill is key to economic growth
HCTI 11 – House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure (“CEOs: Congress Must Pass Robust Transportation Bill to Rebuild America” 9/22/11, http://democrats.transportation.house.gov/press-release/ceos-congress-must-pass-robust-transportation-bill-rebuild-america)

With nearly 150,000 deficient American … leadership in the global economy.”

Nuclear war
Tilford 8 – PhD in history from George Washington University, served for 32 years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army (Earl, “Critical mass: economic leadership or dictatorship”, Cedartown Standard, lexis)

Could it happen again? Bourgeois … to that point very quickly.



==Weaponization DA== 

Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization
ENS, 1/30 (“U.S. Joins Effort to Clean Up Space Environment,” Environmental News Service, http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/jan2012/2012-01-30-02.html)Red
Decades of space activity have … encourage openness among space actors."

Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash against hegemony
Glaser, 8 - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>) //DH

Glaser: Since it would be such … built by an international effort.

Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war
Hitchens, 8 – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span>)

Perhaps of even greater concern … would be unacceptable to all.

==Ehrenfeld K== 

The aff’s worship of a technological solution to the world’s problems creates a view of humanity as useless and incomplete and makes their solution inevitably fail
Ehrenfeld, 81 – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 84-86) Idriss
Here we see a remarkable … and replaced by bionic substitutes.

The worship of technology legitimizes violence that culminates in nuclear extinction
Ehrenfeld, 81 – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 103-104) Idriss
Despite the prevalence of the … God seem welcome by comparison.

The alternative is to embrace humanity’s inability to manage the world.

That’s the only way the atrocities of humanism be solved
Ehrenfeld, 81 – (David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 7 Pg. 261-262) Idriss
To understand that we are … hope for, and it is enough.


==EIS CP== 

Solves and net beneficial – prior assessment approves the plan and boosts environmental leadership
Viikari 8 (Lotta, Professor of Public and International Law and Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law at the University of Lapland, Theory and Practice of Transboundary Environmental Impact Assessment, p. 265-266)

1. Introduction
Outer space is an … for the space sector yet.

This model stops global environmental destruction that risks extinction
Harris 1 (Paul G., Lecturer – Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)

In addition to promoting U.S. … to make a Kantian argument65).
==Yes War== 

War will escalate- deterrence fails and countries don’t perceive the costs of war
Sagan, Associate Professor of Political Science and Chair of the International Relations Program at Stanford University, 1995
(Scott D., “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate,” p.49)
There are two central arguments… requirements for stable nuclear deterrence.

Economics cannot explain the absence of war
Jervis, Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics, Columbia University, 2002
(Robert, “Theories of War in an Era of Leading Power Peace”. American Political Science Review 96:1–14.)

There are four general arguments … expectations of future good relations.

Nuke war causes extinction--- NEW 2009 STUDIES PROVE
Star 9, University of Sydney, 8/2/09, (Stephen Starr and Peter King, , “Nuclear suicide”, Sunday, 02 August 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20090208-19496.html]]</span>)
But there is little evidence … imports would be at risk.

==Warming Advantage== 

Warming inevitable – we’ve passed 450 ppm
Lamb ’07
(Gregory,- writer for the Christian Science Monitor “A key threshold crossed”)
For climate scientists, a similar … or next decade; it's now."

No risk of resource wars—shortages don’t trigger military confrontation
Victor 7— professor of law at Stanford Law School and the director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development. He is also a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations (David, Nov 14, 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/IK14Dj04.html]]</span>, “What resource wars?”, ZBurdette)

Rising energy prices and mounting … to look ahead and adapt.

1. High launch costs prevent SSP
Cox, 11 - retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist (William, “The Race for Space Solar Energy,” 3/26,
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]]</span>

The remaining problem is the … less than $3,500 per kilogram.

They can’t fix that
Stephenson, 11 (2/2/11, Neal, Slate Future Tense – science collaboration with Arizona State University and the New America Foundation, “Space Stasis,” http://www.slate.com/id/2283469/pagenum/all)RK

2. If satellites and launches were … expensive; it's a physical impossibility.

2. Technology fails – it’s 40 years away
Day, 8 (Dwayne, “Knights in shining armor,” The Space Review, 6/9,
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]]</span>)

The NSSO study is remarkably … in love with the messenger.


=Round 2 - Neuroscience Aff v Loyola FM= 

The United States federal government should substantially increase its missions to the International Space Station for the purpose of neuroscience experiments beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

==Adv 1== 

Contention 1 is the Military:

We’re behind in military neuroscience- China and Iran are overtaking us
Hearn, 08 (Kelley, Washington Times, “Iran, China make neuroscience advances”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/oct/02/neuroscience-wake-up-call/?page=all]]</span> SW)

Iran and China are developing … not decades,” Mr. McBride said.

Neuroscience warfare is inevitable – enhanced troop performance and brain-operated machines will inevitably tip the tides of battle
Kelland 12 (Feb 6, Kate, Rueters, “Neuroscience the new face of warfare: experts”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/07/us-brain-neuroscience-conflict-idUSTRE81600820120207]]</span> SW)

(Reuters) - Directed energy weapons that use … cause a painful burning sensation.

Non-military neuroscience research is vital to military applications
BAST 09 (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]]</span> pg 70 SW)

This section describes two areas … enhance cognitive and behavioral performance.

Two internal links:

First, information:

The improved stress response aided by neuroscience is key to the military effectiveness– its also key to data interpretation and preventing over-saturation of data
BAST 09 (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]]</span> pg 67 SW)

The transformation of the U.S. … for such neuroscience-informed enhancements.

Independent miscalc impact
Adams 1- Thomas K. Adams, national security consultant based in the Washington DC area. He is a veteran of thirty-four years military service, principally in intelligence and special operations at tactical, operational, and strategic levels from Vietnam to Bosnia, Future Warfare and the Decline of Human Decisionmaking, Parameters, Winter 2001-02, pp. 57-71. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/01winter/adams.htm

The entry point for automated … other factors are omitted entirely.

Leads to an Accidental nuclear war
Michael S. Gerson, 2010, research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), in Alexandria, Virginia. No First Use The Next Step for U.S. Nuclear Policy.

Second, in the midst of … defensive signals intended for deterrence.


Second, brain machine interfaces – ensuring effective stress response via neuroscience is key to them
BAST 09 (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]]</span> pg 69-70 SW)

Neuroergonomics has been defined by … such controls have been created.

BMIs connect troops directly with their weapons, increasing accuracy and speed – this would make the most efficient military machines yet made
Sample 12 (Ian, Science correspondent for The Guardian, February 6,“Neuroscience could mean soldiers controlling weapons with minds”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2012/feb/07/neuroscience-soldiers-control-weapons-mind)katie]]</span>
*BMIs- brain-machine interfaces

One of the report's most … and accuracy," the report states.

NASAs neuroscience research is vital to stress responses
BAST 09 (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]]</span> pg 69-70 SW)

The National Aeronautics and Space … subjects to a light-dark cycle.

Heg is key to global stability and accesses every major impact – Prevents Great Power War
Thayer, 6, Professor of Strategic Studies – Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)
A grand strategy based on … the economic prosperity it provides.

==Adv 2== 


Contention 2 is EU Relations

Neuroscience funding is getting slashed – threatens to set back neuroscience research in the US
Amara 11 The Department of Neurobiology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, and the Center for Neuroscience at the University of Pittsburgh (Susan G, Nature Reviews Neuroscience, “Neuroscience in recession?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nature.com/nrn/journal/v12/n5/full/nrn3023.html]]</span> May 2011 issue 12, pgs 297-302 SW)

The global financial crisis has … there are further challenges ahead.

Continued research is key to UK relations
BOARD ON HEALTH SCIENCES POLICY 11
(Institute of Medicine of the National Acadamies, “Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iom.edu/~/media/28-MAR-2012/027308%20IOM%20Neuroscience%20Forum%20AnnRpt%202001%20FINAL.pdf]]</span> SW)

The National Academy of Sciences… psychopathy; and the developing brain.


US-Britain relations are key to overall US-EU relations and terrorism
Nile Gardener, Director of The Heritage Foundation's Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom, 6/27/2007. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=ZDkwZmFlZjZhNGVhY2RjMDZhNDQ4ODZkMWYwZTFmNDc=&w=MQ]]</span>.

An America without Britain alongside … Brussels and not to Washington.

The attack causes miscalc and nuclear war
Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)

Washington's early response to a … unable or unwilling to provide.

And, EU relations check Global war.
O’Sullivan 2004 – editor of The National Interest (John, March 2004, www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol3Issue13/Vol3Issue13OSullivanPFV.html)

The report's starting point -- that … powers that led to 1914.

==Adv 3== 

Contention 3 is the ISS:

Current ISS neuroscience missions are inadequate – we need more people and more time
Clement and Reschke 08 *PhD in Neurobiology from the University of Lyon and PhD in Natural Sciences from the University of Paris, CNES Chair - Human Space Flight AND ** Neuroscience Laboratories at the NASA Johnson Space Center (Gilles and Millard F., “Neuroscience in Space”, Springer, pg 263 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.springer.com/engineering/mechanical+engineering/book/978-0-387-78949-1]]</span> SW)

Compared to the previous flight … after discontinuation of Shuttle flights (Figure 9-02).


The International Space Station’s National Laboratory will be under-utilized due to lack of NASA support and launches

GAO, 9

[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/]]</span> new.items/d109.pdf]

The ISS has been continuously … for the ISS beyond 2015.

And NASA launches are key – international partners and commercial sector launches cause delays that lead to abandoning science research and can’t transport the necessary payloads

GAO, 9

[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/]]</span>new.items/d109.pdf


NASA faces several significant challenges … only conduct minimal science experiments.

Plans to abandon ISS signal end of space coop and decline of scientific leadership—timeframe is 2015

Hauser and John, 9


[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]</span>]


If the United States allows its … international collaboration conducted by other nations.

US Space coop checks miscalc, debris, arms races
MacDonald ’09 (Brian,- Senior Director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. He is based at the United States Institute of Peace, Washington, DC. “Steps to strategic security and stability in space: a view from the United States” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2907.pdf]]</span>)
Although the United States has been … security and stability in space.

Miscalc from space debris causes nuclear war with Russia – warning systems mistake collision
Lewis, ‘4 – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]
This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.

American science leadership is the vital internal link to every major impact—collapse makes extinction inevitable.
Fedoroff, 08 – Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID (Nina, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm
Science by its nature facilitates … partnerships, and create sustainability.

=Round 3 - 1NC V Fire Monitoring – Dulles= 
==Ospec== 
==T – Human== 

See above

==Ehrenfeld== 

See above

==Ozone== 

Increased launches collapse ozone
Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields
Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html
Rocket emissions have two distinct …. by natural atmospheric circulation.

Extinction
Thomas 6
William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm
A Canadian atmospheric scientist …. shielding—but the stratosphere itself.


==Politics== 

See above for UQ and internal link

President gets the blame for agencies
Shane 1995 - Dean and Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh (Peter, “Political Accountability in a System of Checks and Balances: The Case of Presidential Review of Rulemaking”, 48 Ark. L. Rev. 161, 1995)

The reason for the insignificance ….. than they do over "purely executive" establishments.


Space policy not popular
Rand Simberg, aerospace engineer and consultant in space commercialization, Summer 2009, “A Space Program for the Rest of Us”, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/a-space-program-for-the-rest-of-us
In the blink of an eye, a subject purely in the realm of science fiction became science fact — and a major cultural phenomenon, not to mention a huge government program. At its funding peak during the Apollo … confused and contradictory.


Infrastructure spending is vital to grid upgrades and economic leadership
Greenberger 1-23 (James,- Executive Director of NAATBatt, a trade association of companies in the advanced battery industry “Smart Energy Investment and the Smart Grid”)
Next Tuesday in his State of the …. government-directed mandate and investment.

Grid upgrade is key to readiness
Tilford 2-4 (Robert,- writer for Charlotte City Buzz Examiner “Electric grid vulnerabilities present risks to U.S. defense assets”)
A terrorist attack that caused a long-term grid disruption "… likely cannot afford a gap.

Global war
Spencer ‘2K (Jack-, Senior Policy Analyst for Defense and National Security @ the Institute for International Studies @ the Heritage Foundation “The Facts About Military Readiness” http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/ BG1394.cfm )
Military readiness is vital because declines in … national interest, thereby preserving peace.

==CIA CP== 

The CP solves ---- doesn’t link to politics
Pasternak ’03 (Douglas,- senior editor on the investigative team at U.S. News & World Report focusing on national security issues “Lack of Intelligence”)
America's secret spy satellites are ….. but won't discuss the new satellite operation.

==California== 

US not key – developing countries will sustain growth
Perry, 11 (Dan, “Gathered at Lake Como, finance experts see choppy waters ahead, possibly another recession,” Associated Press, 9/2/11, http://www.canadianbusiness.com/article/42810--gathered-at-lake-como-finance-experts-see-choppy-waters-ahead-possibly-another-recession)Red
Min Zhu, a former top Chinese official who in July ….
was better than might appear, he argued.

Alt Causes ---

Problems are global and systemic – no recovery for years
Abelson, 10/11/11 (Max, Bloomberg, “Wall Street Sees ‘No Exit’ From Financial Woes” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-12/wall-street-sees-no-exit-from-financial-woes-as-bankers-fret.html)Red]]</span>
Wall Street executives, facing demonstrators …. is being called into question.”

==Pyro Terror== 

Al Qaeda is weak now for multiple reasons
Habeck 4/19/12 (Mary Habeck- an associate professor in Strategic Studies at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), where she teaches courses on military history and strategic thought. Before coming to SAIS, Dr. Habeck taught American and European military history in Yale's history department, 1994-2005. She received her PhD in history from Yale in 1996, an MA in international relations from Yale in 1989, and her BA in international studies, Russian, and Spanish from Ohio State in 1987. Dr. Habeck was appointed by President George W. Bush to the Council on the Humanities at the National Endowment for the Humanities (2006-2012), and in 2008-2009 she was the special advisor for Strategic Planning on the National Security Council staff. “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/04/19/answering_objections_is_al_qa_ida_really_dead_part_one|Answering objections: Is al Qaeda really dead, part one?]]</span>” 4/19/12
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/04/19/answering_objections_is_al_qa_ida_really_dead_part_one]]</span> )

The al-Qaeda core does not command ….. optimistic future for the Muslim world.

No terrorism – hard to pull off, not many terrorists, and small attacks don’t cut it
Schneier 5/5 - masters degree in computer science from American University, chief technology officer and founder of BT Counterpane Internet Security (Bruce, “Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks?”, Schneier on Security, May 5th, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html]]</span>)

As the details of the Times …..
you're probably going to slip up and get caught.


No solvency -- terrorism a global problem involving all types of groups
Noble ‘04(Ronald, Secretary General of INTERPOL, “Prosecuting terrorism: the global challenge”, 6-4, http://www.interpol.int/Public/ICPO/speeches/SG20040604.asp)
The events over the past two and ….. strike on every continent.

==Air Pollution== 

Air pollution has tons of causes – plan fails
BROOK et al 04 [Circulation magazine Robert D. Brook, MD; Barry Franklin, PhD, Chair; Wayne Cascio, MD; Yuling Hong, MD, PhD; George Howard, PhD; Michael Lipsett, MD; Russell Luepker, MD; Murray Mittleman, MD, ScD; Jonathan Samet, MD; Sidney C. Smith, Jr, MD; Ira Tager, MD, “Air Pollution and the Cardiovascular Disease” June 1, 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/109/21/2655#SEC1/|http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/109/21/2655#SEC1/]]</span>]

A brief description of several individual …. variety of metals (eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).

Honeybees are not key to survival
INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE 5-2-2007 (http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2007/05/03/healthscience/NA-SCI-US-Honeybees-Weird.php)
The scientist who wrote the paper, Stefan Kimmel, ….. humans because some food is wind-pollinated.

Habitat and species loss doesn’t negatively affect an area’s biology – evolutionary incentive to cooperate rather than compete ensures increased adaptability and mutual aid
Boulter, 02 (Michael Boulter - professor for paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London, former editor to the Palaeontological Association, former secretary to the International Organization of Palaeobotany, and UK …..
might develop suddenly and unexpectedly.

C. Biodiversity is bad – it makes ecosystems less stable and more prone to collapse – simple systems are more stable
Heath, 99 (Jim Heath - Australian Orchid Council Inc., 1999, Orchids Australia, “WHY SAVE ORCHIDS UNDER THREAT?,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]]</span>, CM)
Some people say we can’t afford to lose …… makes the biological world more stable.

=Round 4 - Antarctica Aff= 
==Advantage 1== 

Contention 1 is March of the Penguins

There is a massive data deficit on Emperor Penguins now – space based monitoring is the only way to solve
Fretwell et al, 12 – Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)Red
An accurate assessment of the … to model their population dynamics.

Climate change is devastating emperor penguin populations
Soos, 11 (Andy, “Emperor Penguin Colony,” ENN, 3/14/11, http://www.enn.com/wildlife/article/42463)Red
Scientists at British Antarctic Survey … highly sensitive to climatic changes.

Emperor penguin populations are declining now – plan provides an effective conservation mechanism and sets a cost cutting model
NSF, 12 (“Scientists Determined First-ever Census for Emperor Penguins,” 4/13/12, http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=123854)Red
The results provide an important … vulnerable to further climate change.

Key to global biodiversity and climate research – specifically preserving Southern Ocean resources
Ormsby, 12 (Mary, “Satellite images of Antarctic emperor penguins will benefit climate change research,” The Star, 4/13/12, http://www.thestar.com/news/insight/article/1161346--satellite-images-of-antarctic-emperor-penguins-will-benefit-climate-change-research)Red
Mapping the emperor penguins has … that are important to us.”

Multiple scenarios for extinction ---
Environmental destruction is the greatest threat to life
Coyne and Hoekstra 7 – *professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago, **Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (Jerry and Hopi, The New Republic, “The Greatest Dying,” 9/24, http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatest-dying)
But it isn't just the …greatest dying of them all.

Warming causes extinction
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122
The best estimates for global … social, cultural and political changes.

Ocean
Adam, 2006 [David, the Hindu, Jun 19, Lexis]
We don’t endorse gendered language.
Damage to the once pristine … cradle for life on Earth.''

Independently destroys the Antarctica Treaty – leads to escalatory war
ICE, 07 – Inventory of Conflict and Environment (ICE) intends to provide acommon basis and method for looking at issues of conflict and environment (“Considering conflict in Antarctica,” ICE Case Study 215, May 2007, http://www.asparis.net/pamun/Crisis2008/CRISIS-SCL.pdf)Red
In a resource-driven world, … space for involvement may arise.

Nuke war
NRC 86 (National Research Council, “Antarctic Treaty System: An Assessment: Proceedings of a Workshop Held at Beardmore South Field Camp, Antarctica, January 7-13, 1985”, pg 36-37 SW)
Thus the nuclear-free zone … foreign bases in the area.

American leadership is key
Khosla, 09 – Ashok, IUCN President (“A New President for the United States: We have a dream,” International Union for Conservation of Nature, 1/29/09, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cms.iucn.org/news_events/?uNewsID=2595]]</span>)Red
A rejuvenated America, with … an issue of planetary survival.

==Advantage 2== 

Contention 2 is The Arctic

NSF funds are tight – forcing scaled back programs
Koebler, 12 (Jason, “Endangered Species: Penguins, Ice Caps, and Arctic Monitors,” US News, 4/6/12, http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2012/04/06/endangered-species-penguins-ice-caps-and-arctic-monitors)Red
The temperatures are warming and … their importance would be recognized.

Institutionalizing our mechanism spills over – reduces cost and frees up funds for other programs
Fretwell et al, 12 – Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)Red
Current predictions [5], [6] suggest that trends … other species for similar survey.

NSF arctic research is on the chopping block – it’s key to arctic resource management and ensuring US access – cost effective model is needed
Weisburger, 11 – Alison, Analyst and North American Arctic/Outreach Coordinator for the Arctic Institute (“Proposed Cuts to Funding Threaten Arctic Research in U.S. and Canada,” The Arctic Institute, 11/7/11, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2011/11/34522-proposed-cuts-to-funding-threaten.html)Red
As tough economic times persist … are nonessential for policy decisions.

Tensions in the arctic are rapidly escalating – research program needed to calibrate deterrence and prevent environmental disasters like oil spills
Talmadge, 4/16/12 (Eric, “As ice cap melts, militaries vie for Arctic edge,” AP, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5hHahS23wLPy4fhU-vLwWGFHfwrDQ?docId=cea62528aa6a4ac6ba8846e0e37b42fe)Red
YOKOSUKA, Japan (AP) — To the world's military leaders… that is the real risk."

NSF arctic research solves
Ulmer, 11 – Fran, Chair of the US Arctic Research Commission (“Statement in Response by USARC’s Chair,” Arctic Update, 10/17/11, http://archive.constantcontact.com/fs062/1103854201241/archive/1108177225795.html)Red
STATEMENT in response by USARC's … a tremendous return on investment."

Spills are probable – further research is imperative
State News Service 2k10 (“Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexisgreenhill-au)r/e
The lawsuit, filed last … and the Minerals Management Service."

Arctic oil spills cause extinction – can’t be cleaned up
Dempsey 84 (Paul Stephen, Professor of Transportation Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program – University of Denver College of Law, “Compliance and Enforcement in International Law -- Oil Pollution of the Marine Environment by Ocean Vessels”, Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Summer, 6 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 459, Lexis)r/e
In the short term, oil … submerging most coastal cities. 27

Miscalc causes nuke war
Huebert, 2007
[Rob, Associate Professor of Political Science & the Strategic Studies Program @ the University of Calgary, Appendix 4, Canada and the Circumpolar World: Meeting the Challenges of Cooperation into the Twenty-First Century: A Critique of Chapter 4 – “Post-Cold War Cooperation in the Arctic: From Interstate Conflict to New Agendas for Security.” http://www.carc.org/calgary/a4.htm]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The potential for an accidental … to build the Borei class.</span>

Escalates quickly
SI 2007 (Security Innovator, 8/23/2007, http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Huebert explained that he’d “like … why we couldn’t start tomorrow.” </span>

==Solvency== 

Contention __ is Solvency

Initial surveys were successful, but not enough – deploying satellites with greater resolution for long term monitoring is key
Fretwell et al, 12 – Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)Red
Colony Detection To determine whether … … consequent loss of sea ice [8].

That requires the NSF
The State Column, 12 (“NSF studies emperor penguins in fight against global warming,” 4/14/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thestatecolumn.com/articles/national-science-foundation-studies-emperor-penguins-fight-global-warming/]]</span>)Red
The NSF has funded a … and glaciers have been decreasing.

Budget savings mean we can more effectively do science – NSF will use low cost mechanisms
Prior, 97 – Stuart, officer of the New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, head of the Antarctic Policy Unit (“ANTARCTICA: View from a Gateway,” Working Paper 5/97, Centre for Strategic Studies, Victoria University of Wellington, 1997, http://www.victoria.ac.nz/css/docs/Working_Papers/WP05.pdf)Red
Whilst America's place in Antarctica … return on Antarctic science spending.

Space based capability is key – it solves
Brown, 12 (Eryn, “Biologists count penguins by satellite,” Los Angeles Times, 4/13/12, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/apr/13/science/la-sci-penguins-20120414)Red
The harsh conditions have made … to assist with their calculations.




Managerialism is necessary—it’s inevitable and the aff chooses a better mode
Nordhaus & Shellenberger, 07
Break Through: From the Death of Environmentalism to the Politics of Possibility, Ted & Michael, Managing Directors of American Environics, A social values research and strategy firm 134-135

It is this reality - human … whatsoever over how we evolve.

Plan: The United States National Science Foundation should deploy a satellite equipped to take ultra-high resolution images for the purpose of surveying indigenous Antarctic life from beyond the Earth’s mesosphere


=Round 5 - Antarctica Aff -= 
==Cred Advantage== 

Read with both other advantages - same plan text

Contention 1 is Cred

Plan creates effective science program
AFP, 12 (“Penguins aplenty in Antarctica,” News 24, 4/15/12, http://www.news24.com/SciTech/News/Penguins-aplenty-in-Antarctica-20120413)Red
Satellite imagery clearly showed the … information for international conservation efforts."

Science leadership in Antarctica ensures US leadership
USAP, 10 (U.S. Antarctic Program Participant Guide, 2010-2012, “Chapter 1: U.S. Role in Antarctica,” http://usap.gov/USAPgov/travelAndDeployment/documents/ParticipantGuide-Chapter1.pdf)Red
Research is pursued in aeronomy … and diplomatic leadership in Antarctica.

Prevents CBW and Nuclear War
Barlow, 02 Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley (Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values, http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editorial.php#6)
Much of Nye’s analysis is … autonomy in a networked system.

Bioweapons cause extinction
Ochs 2 former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
Of all the weapons of … How slippery is this slope?

Science overcomes alt causes
Miotke 2008 – Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science, Space, and Health (Jeff, Before the Subcommittee on Research, Science Education, House Committee on Science and Technology, United States House of Representatives, Washington, DC April 2, 2008http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102995.htm)
Conclusion—S&T is universally perceived … cooperation on science and technology.



=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]