=Cite Requests= 
[[toc]]
For cites or questions, please email Kentucky Morrow at barredrocks@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==Notes== 
I won't be posting full text on the aff for organizational purposes, but I can email it to you if you're unable to find it from the original source. For 2AC answers to off-case positions, I'll try to post cites //after// each tournament. Add-ons and 2ac blocks to generics (states, elections, etc.) should be there soon. 

==Links== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[2012-2013 - Blake (MN) - Hirsh Shekhar & Kentucky Morrow - Aff Intel|Aff Intel]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[2012-2013 - Blake (MN) - Hirsh Shekhar & Kentucky Morrow - Guam Aff|Guam 1ACs and Add-ons]]</span>
[[Guam 2AC Blocks]]

[[2012-2013 - Blake (MN) - Hirsh Shekhar & Kentucky Morrow - Aff - Diego Garcia|Diego Garcia 1ACs and Add-ons]]
[[2012-2013 - Blake (MN) - Hirsh Shekhar & Kentucky Morrow - Aff - Diego Garcia - 2ACs|Diego Garcia 2AC Blocks]]

[[LNG 1ACs and Add-ons]]
[[LNG 2AC Blocks]]

=Negative= 
All strategies should be posted for the negative - please do not ask before the round, and we will do the same for you. If for some reason the tournament doesn't have internet we will gladly tell you everything.
==Intel== 

===Grapevine=== 

Round 1 Vs. Heritage Hall - Airplane Navigation

1NC - Coercion, Death Cult, Security, Aspec, Earmarks CP, States CP, Politics, Case D
2NR - Politics and case

Round 3 Vs. Dallas Jesuit - Locks

1NC - Coercion, Death Cult, Aspec, Earmarks CP, States CP, Politics, Case D, High Food Prices Good
2NR - Deathcult, Politics, Case D

Round 5 Vs. Friendsville - DnG

1NC - Ablism, Cap K, Framework
2NR - Framework

Octas Vs. Bishop Guirten - Port Dredging

1NC - Coercion, Death Cult, Earmakrs CP, States, Aspec, Politics, Bio Tech Bad, Nano Tech Bad, Case D
2NR - Earmarks CP, Politics, Case D

Quaters Vs. Westwood - Disabilities

1NC - Government Pic, States, Aspec, Cap, Politics, Case D
2NR - Politics, Case

Semis Vs. St. Marks - NIB

1NC - Coercion, Death Cult, Security, Aspec, T-Increase, States, Politics Case D
2NR - Extra T

===Greenhill Round Robin=== 

Pace ES. - Gas Tax

1NC - Xtra T, Magnitsky, Economic Rationality, Case D
2NR - Ptx and Case

Stratford - Port Dredging

1NC - T, Magnitsky, Security, States, Case D
2NR - Security

GBN SK - Space Elevators

1NC - T, PTX, Coercion, Earmarks, Case
2NR - Earmarks and Case

San Deguito - ITS

1NC - T, Ptx, Coercion, Security, States, Case
2NR - Coercion, States, Ptx, Case


===Greenhill=== 

Round 2 V. Rolland hall St. Marks - CCS

1NC - Elections, Earmarks, Security, Coercion, T, Warming good
2NR - Elections and Case

Round 4 V. St. Marks - NIB

1NC - Elections, States, Security, Coercion, Xtra T, Case
2NR - Elections and case

Round 5 V. Pace ES - Gas Tax

1NC - Elections, PIC, States, Econ Rationality, Coercion, Extra T, Case
2NR - K

Doubles V. GBS SW - Bearing Strait

1NC - Elections, Threaten CP, Death Cult, Schmitt, Coercion, T, Russia Relations bad, Case
2NR - Elections and Case

===St. Marks=== 

2NR - Elections and Case
2NR - Fiscl Cliff's and Case
2NR - Security
2NR - Elections, Advantage CP, T, Case-D
2NR - Fiscal Cliff and Case

===Umich=== 

2NR - Security K
2NR - Security K
2NR - Coercion DA
2NR - Dedev, Econ Advantage CP, Politics, Case
2NR - Consult JCS

===Gbrooks=== 

2NR - States, PTX, Case
2NR - EOR K
2NR - Fiscal Cliff and Case
2NR - Privatization CP, Keynes Bad, Coercion
2NR - Fiscal Cliff and Case


==Counterplans== 

===Earmarks=== 

====1NC==== 


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States Federal Government will appoint a conference committee for FY2014 appropriations legislation for the Department of Defense, Department of Transportation, and Related Programs. The United States Federal Government should not increase funding for (da pla) prior to the passage of the FY2014 budget. The conference committee will insert an earmark in FY2014 appropriations legislation for the Department of Defense, Department of Transportation, and Related Programs which provides (insert Da plan). </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Earmarking in the budget conference committee guarantees the plan gets done without fiating passage, and doesn’t link to politics</span>
Conference Committee earmarks fly below the radar – and guarantees they get passed
Phil <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kerpen</span>, policy director for Americans for Prosperity, 5-24-<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2007</span>, “Democrats Fail on Earmark Reform,” Human Events, [[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=20856]]
When Democrats announced a moratorium on earmarks and a promise to pass meaningful reform in the aftermath of their election victory I was cautiously optimistic and praised that announcement. The question then, as I wrote here on H.E., was whether they would follow through on their promises to voters and enact real reforms for the fiscal 2008 appropriations process. Well the results are in and the Democratic majority has failed the test badly. Chairman of <span style="font-size: 16px;">the House Appropriations Committee</span> David Obey <span style="font-size: 16px;">announced</span> yesterday that <span style="font-size: 16px;">the House will keep all of its earmarks secret through the initial passage of the appropriations bills, adding them in only at the last minute in conference committees, where they will not be subject to public scrutiny, debate, or floor amendment</span>. Conference committees are supposed to be for reconciling differences between House and Senate versions of legislation. Earmarks conjured out of nowhere in conference have long been identified as one of the most abusive earmarking practices. <span style="font-size: 16px;">By the time a bill emerges from conference</span> the more <span style="font-size: 16px;">contentious pointshave</span> usually <span style="font-size: 16px;">been settled</span>, often after a long drawn out process, and <span style="font-size: 16px;">the bills are likely to be enacted. It is often a scramble against time to meet the end of the fiscal year</span> or the expiration of a continuing resolution. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Adding earmarks at that stage </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">virtually guarantees</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that indefensible projects will be funded because they will escape any meaningful public review or congressional debate.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 16px;">Government PIC </span>=== 

====<span style="font-size: 16px;">1NC</span>==== 


**THEIR USE OF THE WORD ‘GOVERNMENT’ IS SLAVESPEAK THAT MAKES THE AVERAGE CITIZEN POWERLESS IN THE FACE OF OVERARCHING SOVEREIGN POWER.**

MANN, 1997

Frederick, NSPIC DEBATE, [[http://www.mind-trek.com/reports/tl07e.htm]]

**__You might think__**, "So what? **__Why is this important__**?" Much of the time, it isn't. When the referent is a thing, a physical object, the distinction isn't important. But what happens when we use a word like "government?" What is the referent? The word "government" is generally used as a singular noundescribinga creature that sounds like a human only much more powerful. Here are some examples from earlier articles: "Certainly the government is concerned only for itself and it's kin (politicians). Certainly the government will kill or imprison me if this is perceived to be in its interest. Certainly the government has the power to do so." ... "It may be very difficult for individual humans to be aware of the thought processes of governments..." and "Communicating with a government is not easy at all."

You can easily find other examples in the newspaper or just listening to people talk, of the word "government" being used as if it refers to a single volitional entity. Who or what then, is this beast called "government?" Have you seen it? Have you spoken with it? Do you know any one who has? Even though the word "government" is often used as if the referent is a single being, it's obvious that it isn't. So what then does the word "government" refer to? Maybe nothing. No thing. Maybe there is no such THING as "government."

At first, this may seem like a trivial distinction. After all, there are still policemen, judges, congressmen, IRS agents and other assorted terrocrats. Yes, there are people who call themselves "government." Some of them are very dangerous and all of them want to interfere with the lives of others. But thinkingof "government" as an ill-defined, all-powerful foe, puts you in the position of a victim. How can anyone stand up to such a "government" as that? I certainly couldn't. This is a scary creature. But if I cross paths with a terrocrat or two, I can handle that. Terrocrats are human, with no magical powers. I can arrange my life to avoid or minimize contact with them. I can't defend myself against a mythical "government" beast. Terrocrats are human. I can deal with them.





THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION**.**

<span class="underline">BERES, 1994</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Louis Rene, Ph.D., Professor of International Law, Purdue University - SPRING, 11 Ariz. J. Int'l & Comp. Law 1 “SELF-DETERMINATION, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND SURVIVAL ON PLANET EARTH” </span>

<span class="underline">With Hegel's characterization of the State as "the march of God in the world," John Locke's notion of a Social Contract -- the notion upon which the United States was founded n66 -- is fully disposed of, relegated to the ash heap of history. While the purpose of the State, for Locke, is to provide protection that is otherwise unavailable to individuals -- the "preservation of their lives, liberties and States" -- for Hegel, the State stands above any private interests. It is the spirit of the State, Volksgeist, rather than of individuals, that is the presumed creator of advanced civilization. And it is in war, rather than in peace, that a State is judged to demonstrate its true worth and potential.</span>

How easily humankind<span class="underline"> still </span>gives itself to the new gods<span class="underline">. </span>Promised relief from the most terrifying of possibilities -- death and disappearance -- <span class="underline">our species regularly surrenders</span> itself<span class="underline"> to formal structures of power</span> and immunity. Ironically, such surrender brings about an enlargement of the very terrors that created the new gods in the first place, but we surrender nonetheless. In the words of William Reich, we lay waste to ourselves by embracing the "political plague-mongers," a necrophilous partnership that promises purity and vitality through the killing of "outsiders."Fear of death, to summarize, not only cripples life,it also creates entire fields of premature corpses<span class="underline">. But how can we be reminded of our mortality in a productive way, a way that would point to a new and dignified polity of private selves and, significantly, to fewer untimely deaths? One answer lies in the ethics of Epicurus, an enlightened creed whose prescriptions for disciplined will are essential for international stability. The creed of Epicurus is not the caricatural hedonism so falsely associated with the philosopher, but an independence of desire and a freedom from fear -- of death especially. When, therefore, in the Letter to Menoeceus, Epicurus maintains that pleasure is "the end," he says explicitly: [W]e do not mean the pleasures of profligates and those that consist in sensuality, as is supposed by some who are either ignorant or disagree with us or do not understand, but freedom from pain in the body and from trouble in the mind. </span>

<span class="underline">For it is not continuous drinkings and revellings, nor the satisfaction of lusts, nor the enjoyment of fish and other luxuries of the wealthy table, which produce a pleasant life, but sober reasoning, searching out the motives for all choice and avoidance, and banishing mere opinions, to which are due the greatest disturbance of the spirit. n67 Sober reasoning, above all, turns our confidence towards death and our caution towards the fear of death. Aware that Socrates called such fears "bogies," Epictetus says, in Book II, Chapter I of the Discourses: What is death? A bogy. Turn it round and see what it is: you see it does not bite. The stuff of the body was bound to be parted from the airy element, either now or hereafter, as it existed apart from it before. Why then are you vexed if they are parted now? For if not parted now, they will be hereafter. Why so? That the revolution of the universe may be accomplished, for it has need of things present, things future, and things past and done with. n68 We are each "a little soul, carrying a corpse," as Marcus Aurelius says, citing Epictetus, but what sort of soul bears such a heavy burden? Is it the soul of the [*23] Platonic tradition described by Descartes as "in its nature entirely independent of the body, and in consequence that it is not liable to die with it"? n69 Such questions of metaphysics lie far beyond the purview of a political scientist -- even one who has been freed from the tyrannies of vacant empiricism -- but they must be raised before we can ask the next question: How can we best liberate citizens from the "bogy" of death in order to rescue an endangered planet from nefarious definitions of self-determination?</span>

To answer such questions we need not contrast Descartes with the Epicureans, or with Spinoza, Locke or Hume. All we need to recognize is, as Santayana notes in Volume Three of The Life of Reason, that "everything moves in the midst of death." n70 Raised by this understanding "above mortality," the triumphant soul of constantly perishing bodies acknowledges that everything, everywhere, is in flux, and that even the most enduring satisfactions are not at odds with personal transience.

But let us take leave of the metaphysical, and return to the vastly more concrete realm of international affairs. What, exactly, must be done to bring individuals to the liberation offered by Santayana? Very little, if anything! "Immortal reason," Santayana notwithstanding, will not wean our minds from mortal concerns. Perhaps, over time, humankind will envisage the eternal and detach its affections from the world of flux, but that time seems to be far in the future. For now, we must rely on <span class="underline">something else, something far less awesome and far more mundane. </span>We must rely on an expanding awareness that States are not the Hegelian "march of God in the world," but the vicars of annihilation and that the triumph of the herd in world politics only hastens the prospect of individual death.

<span class="underline">V. DEATH, REALPOLITIK AND PLANETIZATION: CREATING AUTHENTIC SELF-DETERMINATION</span>

<span class="underline">This, then, is an altogether different kind of understanding. Rather than rescue humankind by freeing individuals from fear of death, </span>this perspective recommends educating people to the truth of an incontestable relationship between death and geopolitics.By surrendering ourselves to Statesand to traditional views of self-determination, we encourage not immortality butpremature<span class="underline"> and predictable </span>extinction<span class="underline">. It is a relationship that can, and must, be more widely understood.</span>

<span class="underline">There are great ironies involved. Although the corrosive calculus of geopolitics has now made possible the deliberate killing of all life, populations all over the planet turn increasingly to States for security. </span>It is the dreadful ingenuity of States that makes possible death in the billions, but it is in the [*24] expressions of that ingenuity that people seek safety<span class="underline">. Indeed, as the threat of nuclear annihilation looms even after the Cold War, n71 the citizens of conflicting States reaffirm their segmented loyalties, moved by the persistent unreason that is, after all, the most indelible badge of modern humankind.</span>

===Consult JCS=== 

====1NC==== 


The United States federal government will initiate binding consultation with United States military leaders including, at least, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Combatant Commanders, and relevant generals and admirals, over whether the United States will

(Insert plan).

The United States federal government will advocate the adoption of the proposed mandates, and should implement the results of the consultation.

**Consult key to CMR**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hooker 4</span> - Colonel Richard D. Hooker, Jr., Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in international relations and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, served in the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Winter 2004, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, p. 4-18

More current is the suggestion that <span style="font-size: 16px;">party affiliation lends itself to military resistance to civilian control in policy matters</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">especially during periods of Democratic control</span>. The strongest criticism in this vein is directed at General Colin Powell as a personality and gays in the military as a policy issue, with any number of prominent scholars drawing overarching inferences about civil-military relations from this specific event.21 This tendency to draw broad conclusions from a specific case is prevalent in the field but highly questionable as a matter of scholarship. The record of military deference to civilian control, particularly in the recent past, in fact supports a quite different conclusion. Time and again in the past decade, <span style="font-size: 16px;">military policy preferences on troop deployments</span>, the proliferation of nontraditional missions, the <span style="font-size: 16px;">draw-down</span>, gender issues, budgeting for modernization, <span style="font-size: 16px;">base closure and realignment</span>, and a host of other important issues <span style="font-size: 16px;">were overruled</span> or watered down. Some critics, most notably Andrew Bacevich, argue that President Clinton did not control the military so much as he placated it: “<span style="font-size: 16px;">The</span> dirty little <span style="font-size: 16px;">secret of American civil-military relations</span>, by no means unique to this [Clinton] administration, <span style="font-size: 16px;">is that the commander-in-chief does not command the military</span> establishment; <span style="font-size: 16px;">he cajoles it, negotiates with it, and, as necessary, appeases</span> it.”22 This conclusion badly overreaches. Under President Clinton, military force structure was cut well below the levels recommended in General Powell’s Base Force recommendations. US troops remained in Bosnia far beyond the limits initially set by the President. Funding for modernization was consistently deferred to pay for contingency operations, <span style="font-size: 16px;">many of which were opposed by the Joint Chiefs. In these and many other instances, the civilian leadership enforced its decisions firmly on its military subordinates. On virtually every issue, the military chiefs made their case with conviction, but acquiesced loyally and worked hard to implement the decisions of the political leadership.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Extinction with no consult**</span>
THOMAS E. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">RICKS</span>, member of Harvard University's Senior Advisory Council on the Project on U.S. Civil-Military Relations, Center for a New American Security, Pulitzer Prize winning former reporter for the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post, Foreign Policy Mag<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, 6/5</span>,2012, “Covert Wars, Waged Virally”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/06/books/confront-and-conceal-by-david-sanger.html]], KENTUCKY

Mr. Sanger’s sure touch in discussing //<span style="font-size: 16px;">foreign policy falters</span>// when he addresses the Pentagon. He incorrectly states that “battlespace” is a term of cyberwar, when it actually is United States military jargon for any sort of battlefield, conventional or not. More important, Mr. Sanger seems unaware that <span style="font-size: 16px;">a large number of military officers agreed with</span> President <span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama</span>that <span style="font-size: 16px;">Iraq was a “war of choice,” and a huge mistake</span>. Nor by the time Mr. Obama took office was “much of the military ... running on autopilot.” Rather, <span style="font-size: 16px;">after five years of sweating and bleeding in Iraq and Afghanistan, the military was engaged in a good deal of soul-searching about those wars. The “surge” in Iraq was largely the product of military dissidents who believed that invading Iraq had been a mistake. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">These are minor blemishes</span>// in an important book. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">I raise</span>// them mainly //<span style="font-size: 16px;">because of the warning signal they send about c</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">ivil-military relations</span>// under President <span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama. White House </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">mistrust and suspicion of generals is not a recipe for an effective use of military force</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> because </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">it impedes</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the candid sort of </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">discussion</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">that consciously brings to the surface differences, examines assumptions and hammers out sustainable strategies. </span>Rather, it suggests that Mr. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama and those around him are repeating some of the dysfunctionality that characterized the dealings of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson with the Pentagon during the descent into the Vietnam </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">War. With Syria hanging fire, a nuclear-armed Pakistan on the brink and the Afghan war dragging on, that is not a reassuring state of affairs.</span>//




===<span style="font-size: 16px;">States</span>=== 


====<span style="font-size: 16px;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Varies based on the round </span>

==Kritiks== 

===Instromentality=== 

====1NC==== 

**Transportation absolves individual responsibility for war – causes structural violence and ensuring a flawed epistemology that must be analyzed as a prior question – this is a framing question not an alt – if the aff justifies their method the rest of the 1NC applies**

Juliette <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kayyem,</span> served as homeland security advisor to Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts and, most recently, as assistant secretary for intergovernmental affairs in the Obama administration. After over 11 years responding to a world where "stuff happens," she is now a columnist for the Boston Globe and teaches at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, 9/11,</span> 2012, “Never Say 'Never Again'”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/09/10/never_say_never_again?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]], KENTUCKY

This last decade has been summed up by a series of mottos that captured its zeitgeist. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The War on Terror. </span>Mission Accomplished. With Us or Against Us. The Surge. Heck of a Job. One Percent Doctrine. Red (Orange, Yellow, Green, Purple, Hazy) Alert. The System Worked. Security Theater. Bin Laden Is Dead. But surely none has so animated the way we think about, and organize around, America's security than the two words uttered by President George W. Bush as early as Sept. 14, 2001, and repeated to defend policies as far ranging as the war in Iraq to the establishment of the NYPD's massive counterterrorism unit: Never Again. "Never again." It is as simplistic as it is absurd. It is as vague as it is damaging. No two words have provided so little meaning or context; no catchphrase has so warped policy discussions that it has permanently confused the public's <span style="font-size: 16px;">understanding of homeland security</span>. It <span style="font-size: 16px;">convinced us that invulnerability was a possibility.</span>The notion that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">policies</span>// should //<span style="font-size: 16px;">focus</span>//almost //<span style="font-size: 16px;">exclusively on preventing the next attack</span>// has also //<span style="font-size: 16px;">masked</span>// an ideological battle within homeland-security policy circles between "never again" and its antithesis, commonly referred to as "shit happens" but in polite company known as "//<span style="font-size: 16px;">resiliency</span>//." The debate isn't often discussed this way, and not simply because of the bad language. Time has not only eased the pain of that day, but there have also been no significant attacks. "Never again" has so infiltrated public //<span style="font-size: 16px;">discourse</span>// that to even acknowledge a trend away from prevention is considered risky, un-American. Americans don't do "Keep Calm and Carry On." But //<span style="font-size: 16px;">if they really want security</span>//, the kind of security //<span style="font-size: 16px;">that is sustainable and realistic</span>//, then //<span style="font-size: 16px;">they are going to have to. </span>//I have spent most of my career in counterterrorism and homeland security in both state and federal government. And though it may look thoughtless, even numbingly dumb at times, there is actually a theory behind it. Homeland security has rested on four key activities: prevention, protection, response, and recovery. And while the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) -- created in 2003 out of some 40 agencies -- is part of the national security apparatus, it is as much about the "homeland" as it is about "security." There is little acknowledgment of the almost impossible balance that homeland security seeks to maintain every day. A country like the United States -- a federal structure with 50 governors all kings unto themselves, hundreds of cities //<span style="font-size: 16px;">with transit systems</span>// that only function when on time, commercial activity across borders that makes Amazon.com so successful and gas so plentiful, respect (sometimes nodding) for civil rights and civil liberties, the flow of people and goods taken as a God-given right, and, oh yes, public money in an economic downturn that must be distributed to not only security efforts but schools, health care//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, transportation,</span>// and every other issue that people care about -- //<span style="font-size: 16px;">was never going to succeed</span>// at "never again." But somehow that's what Americans bought into. The terrorist attacks on 9/11 and the fear that animated so many decisions then made us forget this obvious fact: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">As a nation, we are built unsafe.</span>//But "never again" would hear none of it, though it soon became clear that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">doing "everything possible" to prevent another attack </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">was</span>// a lot, probably //<span style="font-size: 16px;">too much,</span>// and very, very expensive. The die had been set; the way we talked about homeland security no longer was some attempt to balance security needs with everything else or to prepare the public for the inevitable harm and the need to be resilient. Instead, over the past 10 years, the United States has spent nearly $640 billion on homeland security throughout almost every federal agency. To give a sense of how far-reaching the apparatus is, consider a study by the National Priorities Project, which found that of the "$71.6 billion requested for homeland security in FY2010, only $37 billion is funded through DHS." The rest flowed mostly through the departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, and Justice. But "never again" was not just fiscally outrageous; it was, somewhat ironically, myopic in its scope. "Never again" what, exactly? In 2005, Hurricane <span style="font-size: 16px;">Katrina</span>came barreling through New Orleans and the Gulf states and <span style="font-size: 16px;">reminded us</span> that <span style="font-size: 16px;">a country too focused on one threat was surely going to miss the more common</span>, and blameless, ones. Perhaps <span style="font-size: 16px;">the worst legacy of this exclusive focus on prevention</span> was that it //<span style="font-size: 16px;">bred a</span>// nearly //<span style="font-size: 16px;">unstoppable institutional inertia.</span>// It //<span style="font-size: 16px;">made changes, modifications, reassessments,</span>// even total abandonment almost //<span style="font-size: 16px;">impossible to discuss</span>//, let alone enforce. What should have been an easy example -- the vilified color-coded system that had been publicly rejected by former Secretaries of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff and Tom Ridge -- took DHS over a year to amend. The alert system had so infiltrated every aspect of public safety, down to the smallest of local police departments, which had planned and trained around it, that it wasn't so simple to say, "It's over." Ratcheting up is easy, ratcheting down not so much. For political leadership, the fear that the antiquated policy or unsuccessful program that is defunded or rejected ends up being the one policy or program that would have stopped the terrorists -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">fear</span>// that has sometimes been //<span style="font-size: 16px;">manipulated</span>//by local and state first responders during budget decisions -- has paralyzed the kind of analysis that is routine in other public policy arenas. Chertoff faced a backlash when he famously, and rightly, acknowledged in defense of the department's priorities that not every piece of critical infrastructure could be protected. As he remarked on the obvious, that the bridge near his suburban home was not as significant as the Golden Gate Bridge, he faced a barrage of criticism from, mostly, senators who lived near suburban bridges. I saw the phenomenon up close when I entered state government as Gov. Deval Patrick's homeland security advisor in 2007. At that time, 19 members of the National Guard, deployed in late 2001, were still sitting outside our only nuclear facility in Pilgrim, Massachusetts. The Pavlovian response triggered by 9/11, then re-enforced by Governor Mitt Romney during his tenure, persisted nearly six years later, even though the guardsmen had no real function in securing the perimeter or the interior of the structure. Removing those National Guard members was not operationally questionable -- if anything, their armed presence in a residential neighborhood was more troublesome -- but it was politically difficult. We had to convince the public that we weren't abandoning "never again," leaving them vulnerable to an attack, but instead balancing costs and benefits and acknowledging that other mechanisms -- like better lighting -- were more effective. I experienced that same sense of unease, that cautiousness, when I later served on President Barack Obama's transition team for DHS. As we heard about the multiple programs, assessments, and policies that the exiting regime had established, and were clamoring to protect, it became clear that "change" was going to be slow and methodical. Every piece of the homeland security pie had a constituency that believed that this one program (you name it, because there are plenty) was the reason why America had not been attacked again and that removing it would endanger the whole nation. It is not easy to prove them wrong. I wouldn't yet call the policies that seek to give more nuance to the homeland security effort a movement. But the limitations and delusions inherent in "never again" are surely taking a beating. This has been necessary because of how destructive that term has become to the very apparatus established to enforce it. "Never again" set a multibillion-dollar effort on a wayward course, a fool's errand. Throughout government, there are countervailing, and complementary, approaches to preventive security that suggest that the entire apparatus is beginning to acknowledge what couldn't be admitted 11 years ago: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bad things will happen</span>//, they most definitely will, and then, guess what, they will happen again. One such shift has been in the acceptance of an "all-hazards" approach to emergency management planning, with an emphasis on areas that pose the greatest risk. When DHS started to distribute funds to state and local governments, it was animated by the notion that terrorism anywhere, anytime had to be prevented. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Everything had to be new and shiny,</span>// every gizmo purchased to stop another 9/11. While that may have led to nice new cars for a willing police department, often the approach had no coherent philosophy behind it. The Office of Management and Budget hated the program for that reason: what exactly were state and localities buying with this money? I had once been on the receiving end of this funding when in state government and could never quite understand the policies behind the department's directives; one year, it asked all states to spend 25 percent of their homeland security funding on preventing IED explosions, as if Boston were Baghdad. By 2008, though, and more aggressively since then, funding to states and local governments shifted from new gizmos and counterterrorism planning to approaches that would be relevant for any threat and any known response. By this year, the department had so modified what it was willing to fund that it explicitly focused its guidance on "mitigating and responding to the evolving threats," without a mention of preventing terrorism. The department had once, at its peak, considered nearly 100 cities -- ranging from New York City to Bakersfield, California -- as high-threat areas that would be granted additional funding. This year, the number is a much more realistic 31 high-density areas. In addition, the department no longer pretends it is something it is not. "Never again" was, of its many flaws, inherently paternalistic. It created //<span style="font-size: 16px;">a mythology</span>// that politicians and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">terrorism experts</span>// have been <span style="font-size: 16px;">allowed to ride for over a decade</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">: The government could</span>// actually //<span style="font-size: 16px;">achieve perfect protection.</span>// It gave the American people an easy out, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">absolving </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">them of responsibility</span>//. The famous utterance by Secretary Janet Napolitano, my former boss, that the "system worked" in explaining how a passenger stopped the underwear bomber in December 2009 may have been criticized, but it was utterly honest. Why would we be offended by it unless <span style="font-size: 16px;">we</span>had <span style="font-size: 16px;">hand</span>ed //<span style="font-size: 16px;">government </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">all our own responsibilities as citizens,</span>// as well as our expectations for perfect safety? There are 1.5 million people in the air, every day. Honestly, grow up. This concept, dare I say it, that it takes a village is described in the department's most recent planning as the "homeland security enterprise," defined as the broad scope of contributions to security from all federal agencies, levels of government, businesses, nongovernmental organizations, individuals, families, and communities. It is an admission by the agency formed to enforce "never again" that it is now delegating. "Never again" had not allowed for that, and the Department of //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Homeland Security</span>// -- a department //<span style="font-size: 16px;">known</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">more </span>//for //<span style="font-size: 16px;">its public flaws</span>// than its unacknowledged successes -- //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will</span>//surely //<span style="font-size: 16px;">thrive</span>//in the next decade if it can model itself more on the Education Department than the Defense Department. When parents think about their children's education, they do not immediately think of a federal agency. They focus on their own children, their local schools, the options available to them, and the options they can afford. The Education Department sends money to state and local entities, sets standards, and enforces areas that are exclusively in the federal domain. But no one thinks the department owns education. The same could be true for homeland security. Phrases like "first 72 on you" (a motto emergency managers use to urge the public to plan for the possibility that services will not be restored after a disaster for at least three days, and so to have food, water, and resources available at home) or the more controversial "see something, say something" (which is self-descriptive and came into play when a car bomb started to smoke in Times Square in May 2010) are essential efforts to engage the public. It's a little bit of tough love. But the most significant shift has been in the institutionalization of resiliency as a core mission of homeland security and the department. Obama spoke of it in his speech for the 10th anniversary of 9/11, giving voice to a philosophy that had barely been mentioned. Resiliency isn't only about the capability to bounce back but how to actually do that. It isn't just a state of mind, though that surely helps, but also a set of policies and procedures that would help a community come back from the brink. The National Security Council has a resiliency directorate, and the DHS has explicitly reoriented its mission to make resiliency a fifth core function (beyond prevention, protection, response, and recovery). This may sound like bureaucratic lingo, but the reality is that much of what the federal government does is to help communities get back on their feet after a disaster. This includes providing quick access to funding, planning procedures to ensure adequate and inclusive local efforts, and ensuring that essential services are functioning so that communities can begin to rebuild. And //<span style="font-size: 16px;">after each disaster, levees are built stronger</span>//, sheltering facilities are made more livable, and access to emergency funds are made more efficient -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">because there will always be a next time. </span>I saw the same sentiment play out when I served on the leadership of the National Incident Command, the ad hoc entity established to deal with the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. It looked ugly, I know, but over two years later, at the fear of sounding like a BP ad campaign, the Gulf thrives. That's because the operational response was perfectly cognizant of one simple fact that seemed to catch both the media and the public off-guard: Oil would hit shore. Everyone working the spill knew that within weeks of the rig going down and the blowout preventer failing, there were going to be oiled pelicans. So, even as they tried almighty to keep the oil offshore, planners spent as much time preparing for when it inevitably did. If a port had to close due to oil, then the most important question was "How the heck do we reopen it?" If oil closed a fishing area, the planning focused on establishing standards so that the government would reopen it as quickly and safely as possible. Oil was going to hit shore -- stuff happens -- and the goal was to make sure as little of it came onto land as possible, but once it did to make sure its impact was felt for as little time as possible. All these //<span style="font-size: 16px;">efforts are moving us from resistance and revenge to resilience.</span>// And it is sort of amazing to see. I experienced this firsthand at the one-year anniversary of the Joplin, Missouri, tornado. How does a community that lost so many and suffered so much actually bounce back, which it surely had within a year? There, the Federal Emergency Management Agency had established a long-term recovery framework for the kind of planning that a very grassroots effort, and a devastated community, needed in areas such as housing, education, and mental services. The federal government didn't fill in the details; it merely had the resources and even objectivity to help launch a very local effort to find the answers. If resiliency is a state of mind, the government can do much to help those actually impacted to embrace it. The //<span style="font-size: 16px;">ideological debates within homeland security should be understood by the American public</span>// because //<span style="font-size: 16px;">acknowledgment is the first step toward acceptance</span>//. Prevention and resiliency are obviously complementary, but only one has been given voice. While the Bush administration embraced prevention as a unifying mantra, those still abusing it range in ideological and financial motivations. There is still a lot of money in the game, and it is simply much easier to galvanize support on Capitol Hill, win government contracts, and lure consulting fees with two quick words. How do you find a constituency in what is essentially a mood, a spirit of resiliency? In many respects, what is happening is that many of the disciplines that make up the homeland security enterprise have tired of the focus and funding going to law enforcement and police departments. Emergency managers, public health officials, and fire departments can make a pretty strong case that in a world of hurricanes, H1N1, and massive forest fires, and with a terrorist threat that has changed and waned so significantly, we ought to adapt as well. Sure, this doesn't explain the NYPD's attitude -- to this day, its motto hasn't changed. While they may have history to support them, it is jarring that every time they are criticized -- such as for extending an odd and quite likely ineffective "demographics" program to conduct surveillance of Muslim communities in New Jersey -- they retreat, literally word by word, to "never again" as a defense, rather than an explanation. But, they are more an aberration than the norm, purposefully conflating "never forget" with "never again." Just as the threat has changed, so has the homeland. There are 49 new governors since 9/11. (The only exception: Rick Perry from Texas.) My last role in government was to support the homeland security transition planning of 23 new governors who came in 2010, many of them without any government experience. They met at the Old Executive Office Building and with the president at Blair House. They were in a crisis, but it wasn't one made by al Qaeda. State budgets had created a new enemy. None had a "homeland security" platform to speak of. And, to be honest, that did not seem entirely objectionable. All these internal shifts and funding debates over priorities and planning are barely understood by the public. The ideological tensions will exist side by side, and perhaps it will take more years of relative calm interrupted by dramatic jolts (a virus, a spill, a hurricane, a loner with a bomb) for the public to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">realize</span>// that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">there has never been</span>//such a thing as //<span style="font-size: 16px;">peace in the homeland</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span>// But having traveled throughout most of the "homeland," I have some hope that resiliency is taking shape in more than theory. Maybe it is in the long lines for the H1N1 vaccine, lines that were not filled with angry parents but accepting citizens who understood that, given our interconnected world, germs will spread. Or the planning meetings in Joplin, with bean dip and potato chips, where citizens openly discuss what they want their community to look like. Or the design of major new bridges that are no longer built to withstand an earthquake, but to literally sway with the movement. Or //<span style="font-size: 16px;">in how we choose to remember</span>// today, if we choose to remember today, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">with less anger </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">and quiet acceptance</span>//. And one day it will be acceptable, politically and publicly, to argue that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">while homeland security is about ensuring that fewer bad things happen, the real test is that when they inevitably do, they aren't as bad as they would have been </span>//absent the effort. Only our public and political response to another major terrorist attack will test whether there is room for both ideologies to thrive in a nation that was, any way you look at it, built to be vulnerable.


===Coercion=== 

====1NC==== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The plan is coercive theft – shatters morality </span>
Murray N. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rothbard,</span> philosopher, author for Lew Rockwell, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">NO DATE</span>, article is excerpted from chapters 22–25 of The Ethics of Liberty, “The State versus Liberty”, [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html]], KENTUCKY

<span style="font-size: 4px;">Does that mean that Smith's use of violence to establish and maintain his monopoly was essential to the provision of cantaloupes in the neighborhood? Certainly not, for there were existing competitors as well as potential rivals should Smith ever relax his</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">use and threat of violence</span>//; moreover, economics demonstrates that Smith, as //<span style="font-size: 16px;">a coercive monopolist will tend to perform</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> his service badly and inefficiently</span>//. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Protected from competition </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">by the use of force, Smith can afford to provide his service in a costly and inefficient manner, since the consumers are deprived of any possible range of alternative choice</span>//.[1<span style="font-size: 4px;">] Furthermore, should a group arise to call for the abolition of Smith's coercive monopoly there would be very few protesters with the temerity to accuse these "abolitionists" of wishing to deprive the consumers of their much desired cantaloupes. And yet</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the State is only our hypothetical Smith on a gigantic and all-encompassing scale</span>. Throughout history groups of men calling themselves "<span style="font-size: 16px;">the government" or "the State" have attempted – usually successfully – to gain a compulsory monopoly of the commanding heights of the economy and the society</span>. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">In particular, the State has</span>// arrogated to itself //<span style="font-size: 16px;">a compulsory monopoly over</span>// police and military services, the provision of law, judicial decision-making, the mint and the power to create money, unused land ("the public domain"), //<span style="font-size: 16px;">streets </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">and highways, rivers and coastal waters</span>//, and the means of delivering mail. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Control of land and transportation has long been an excellent method of assuring overall control of a society;</span>// in many countries, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">highways began as a means of allowing the government to move its troops conveniently throughout its subject country</span>//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Control of the money supply is a way to assure the State an easy and rapid revenue, and the State makes sure that no private competitors are allowed to invade its self-arrogated monopoly of the power to counterfeit (i.e., create) new money. Monopoly of the postal service has long been a convenient method for the State to keep an eye on possibly unruly and subversive opposition to its rule. In most historical epochs, the State has also kept a tight control over religion, usually cementing a comfortable, mutually supportive alliance with an Established Church: with the State granting the priests power and wealth, and the Church in turn teaching the subject population their divinely proclaimed duty to obey Caesar. But now that religion has lost much of its persuasive power in society, the State is often willing to let religion alone, and to concentrate on similar if looser alliances with more secular intellectuals. In either case, the State relies on control of the levers of propaganda to persuade its subjects to obey or even exalt their rulers. But, above all</span>, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the crucial monopoly is the State's control </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of the use of violence: of the police and armed services,</span>// and of the courts – //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the locus of ultimate decision-making power in disputes</span>// over crimes and contracts. Control of the police and //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the army is particularly important in enforcing and assuring all of the State's other powers, including the all-important power to extract its revenue by coercion.</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">For there is one crucially important power inherent in the nature of the State apparatus. All other persons and groups in society (except for acknowledged and sporadic criminals such as thieves and bank robbers) obtain their income voluntarily: either by selling goods and services to the consuming public, or by voluntary gift (e.g., membership in a club or association, bequest, or inheritance).</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Only the State obtains its revenue by coercion, by threatening dire penalties should the income not be forthcoming. That coercion is known as "taxation," although in less regularized epochs it was often known as "tribute." Taxation is theft, purely and simply, even though it is theft on a grand and colossal scale which no acknowledged criminals could hope to match. It is a compulsory seizure of the property of the State's inhabitants, or subjects. It would be an instructive exercise for the skeptical reader to try to frame a definition of taxation which does not also include theft. Like the robber, the State demands money at the equivalent of gunpoint; if the taxpayer refuses to pay his assets are seized by force, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and if he should resist such depredation, he will be arrested or shot if he should continue to resist. </span><span style="font-size: 4px;">It is true that State apologists maintain that taxation is "really" voluntary; one simple but instructive refutation of this claim is to ponder what would happen if the government were to abolish taxation, and to confine itself to simple requests for voluntary contributions. Does anyone really believe that anything comparable to the current vast revenues of the State would continue to pour into its coffers? It is likely that even those theorists who claim that punishment never deters action would balk at such a claim. The great economist Joseph Schumpeter was correct when he acidly wrote that "the theory which construes taxes on the analogy of club dues or of the purchase of the services of, say, a doctor only proves how far removed this part of the social sciences is from scientific habits of mind."[2] It has been recently maintained by economists that taxation is "really" voluntary because it is a method for everyone to make sure that everyone else pays for a unanimously desired project. Everyone in an area, for example, is assumed to desire the government to build a dam; but if A and B contribute voluntarily to the project, they cannot be sure that C and D will not "shirk" their similar responsibilities. Therefore, all of the individuals, A, B, C, D, etc., each of whom wish to contribute to building the dam, agree to coerce each other through taxation. Hence, the tax is not really coercion. There are, however, a great many flaws in this doctrine. First is the inner contradiction between voluntarism and coercion</span>; //<span style="font-size: 16px;">a coercion of all-against-all does not make any of this coercion "voluntary." </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">Secondly, even if we assume for the moment that each individual would like to contribute to the dam, there is no way of assuring that the tax levied on each person is no more than he would be willing to pay voluntarily even if everyone else contributed. The government may levy $1000 on Jones even though he might have been willing to pay no more than $500. The point is that precisely because taxation is compulsory, there is no way to ensure (as is done automatically on the free market) that the amount any person contributes is what he would "really" be willing to pay. In the free society, a consumer who voluntarily buys a TV set for $200 demonstrates by his freely chosen action that the TV set is worth more to him than the $200 he surrenders; in short, he demonstrates that the $200 is a voluntary payment. Or, a club member in the free society, by paying annual dues of $200, demonstrates that he considers the benefits of club membership worth at least $200. But, in the case of taxation, a man's surrender to the threat of coercion demonstrates no voluntary preference whatsoever for any alleged benefits he receives. Thirdly, the argument proves far too much. For the supply of any service, not only dams, can be expanded by the use of the tax-financing arm. Suppose, for example, that the Catholic Church were established in a country through taxation; the Catholic Church would undoubtedly be larger than if it relied on voluntary contributions; but can it therefore be argued that such Establishment is "really" voluntary because everyone wants to coerce everyone else into paying into the Church, in order to make sure that no one shirks this "duty"? And fourthly, the argument is simply a mystical one. How can anyone know that everyone is "really" paying his taxes voluntarily on the strength of this sophistical argument? What of those people – environmentalists, say – who are opposed to dams per se? Is their payment "really" voluntary? Would the coerced payment of taxes to a Catholic Church by Protestants or atheists also be "voluntary"? And what of the growing body of libertarians in our society, who oppose all action by the government on principle? In what way can this argument hold that their tax payments are "really voluntary"? In fact,</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the existence of at least one libertarian or anarchist in a country is enough by itself to demolish the "really voluntary" argument for taxation</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 4px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">It is also contended that, in democratic governments, the act of voting makes the government and all its works and powers truly "voluntary." Again, there are many fallacies with this popular argument. In the first place</span>, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">even if the majority </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">of the public specifically endorsed each and every particular act of the government, this would simply be majority tyranny rather than a voluntary act undergone by every person in the country. Murder is murder, theft is theft,</span>// <span style="font-size: 4px;">whether undertaken by one man against another, or by a group, or [even by the majority of people within a given territorial area. The fact that a majority might support or condone an act of theft does not diminish the criminal essence of the act or its grave injustice. Otherwise, we would have to say, for example, that any Jews murdered by the democratically elected Nazi government were not murdered, but only "voluntarily committed suicide" – surely, the grotesque but logical implication of the "democracy as voluntary" doctrine. Secondly, in a republic as contrasted to a direct democracy, people vote not for specific measures but for "representatives" in a package deal; the representatives then wreak their will for a fixed length of time. In no legal sense, of course, are they truly "representatives" since, in a free society, the principal hires his agent or representative individually and can fire him at will. As the great anarchist political theorist and constitutional lawyer, Lysander Spooner, wrote: they [the elected government officials] are neither our servants, agents, attorneys, nor representatives ... [for] we do not make ourselves responsible for their acts. If a man is my servant, agent, or attorney, I necessarily make myself responsible for all his acts done within the limits of the power I have intrusted to him. If I have intrusted him, as my agent, with either absolute power, or any power at all, over the persons or properties of other men than myself, I thereby necessarily make myself responsible to those other persons for any injuries he may do them, so long as he acts within the limits of the power I have granted him. But no individual who may be injured in his person or property, by acts of Congress, can come to the individual electors, and hold them responsible for these acts of their so-called agents or representatives. This fact proves that these pretended agents of the people, of everybody, are really the agents of nobody.[3] Furthermore, even on its own terms, voting can hardly establish "majority" rule, much less of voluntary endorsement of government. In the United States, for example, less than 40 percent of eligible voters bother to vote at all; of these, 21 percent may vote for one candidate and 19 percent for another. Twenty-one percent scarcely establishes even majority rule, much less the voluntary consent of all. (In one sense, and quite apart from democracy or voting, the "majority" always supports any existing government; this will be treated below.) And finally how is it that taxes are levied on one and all, regardless of whether they voted or not, or, more particularly, whether they voted for the winning candidate? How can either nonvoting or voting for the loser indicate any sort of endorsement of the actions of the elected government? Neither does voting establish any sort of voluntary consent even by the voters themselves to the government. As Spooner trenchantly pointed out: In truth, in the case of individuals their actual voting is not to be taken as proof of consent.... On the contrary, it is to be considered that, without his consent having even been asked a man finds himself environed by a government that he cannot resist; a government that forces him to pay money renders service, and foregoes the exercise of many of his natural rights, under peril of weighty punishments. He sees, too, that other men practice this tyranny over him by the use of the ballot. He sees further, that, if he will but use the ballot himself, he has some chance of relieving himself from this tyranny of others, by subjecting them to his own. In short, he finds himself, without his consent, so situated that, if he uses the ballot, he may become a master, if he does not use it, he must become a slave. And he has no other alternative than these two. In self-defense, he attempts the former. His case is analogous to that of a man who has been forced into battle, where he must either kill others, or be killed himself. Because, to save his own life in battle, a man attempts to take the lives of his opponents, it is not to be inferred that the battle is one of his own choosing. Neither in contests with the ballot – which is a mere substitute for a bullet – because, as his only chance of self-preservation, a man uses a ballot, is it to be inferred that the contest is one into which he voluntarily entered; that he voluntarily set up all his own natural rights, as a stake against those of others, to be lost or won by the mere power of numbers.... Doubtless the most miserable of men, under the most oppressive government in the world, if allowed the ballot would use it, if they could see any chance of meliorating their condition. But it would not, therefore, be a legitimate inference that the government itself, that crushes them, was one which they had voluntarily set up, or even consented to.[4] If//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">,</span>//</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> then, taxation is compulsory, and is therefore indistinguishable from theft, it follows that the State, which subsists on taxation, is a vast criminal organization far more formidable and successful than any "private" Mafia in history.</span>// <span style="font-size: 16px;">Furthermore, it should be considered criminal not only according to the theory of crime and property rights as set forth in this book, but even according to the common apprehension of mankind, which always considers theft to be a crime. </span><span style="font-size: 4px;">As we have seen above, the nineteenth-century German sociologist Franz Oppenheimer put the matter succinctly when he pointed out that there are two and only two ways of attaining wealth in society: 1. by production and voluntary exchange with others – the method of the free market; and 2</span>. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">by violent expropriation of the wealth produced by others. The latter is the method of violence and theft</span>//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">The former benefits all parties involved; the latter parasitically benefits the looting group or class at the expense of the looted. Oppenheimer trenchantly termed the former method of obtaining wealth, "the economic means," and the latter "the political means." Oppenheimer then went on brilliantly to define the State as "the organization of the political means."[5] Nowhere has the essence of the State as a criminal organization been put as forcefully or as brilliantly as in this passage from Lysander Spooner: It is true that the theory of our Constitution is, that all taxes are paid voluntarily; that our government is a mutual insurance company, voluntarily entered into by the people with each other.... But this theory of our government is wholly different from the practical fact. The fact is that the government, like a highwayman, says to a man: "Your money, or your life." And many, if not most, taxes are paid under the compulsion of that threat. The government does not, indeed, waylay a man in a lonely place, spring upon him from the roadside, and, holding a pistol to his head, proceed to rifle his pockets. But the robbery is none the less a robbery on that account; and it is far more dastardly and shameful.</span> <span style="font-size: 16px;">The highwayman takes solely upon himself the responsibility, danger, and crime of his own act.</span> <span style="font-size: 4px;">He does not pretend that he has any rightful claim to your money, or that he intends to use it for your own benefit. He does not pretend to be anything but a robber. He has not acquired impudence enough to profess to be merely a "protector," and that he takes men's money against their will, merely to enable him to "protect" those infatuated travellers, who feel perfectly able to protect themselves, or do not appreciate his peculiar system of protection. He is too sensible a man to make such professions as these. Furthermore, having taken your money, he leaves you, as you wish him to do. He does not persist in following you on the road, against your will; assuming to be your rightful "sovereign," on account of the "protection" he affords you. He does not keep "protecting" you, by commanding you to bow down and serve him; by requiring you to do this, and forbidding you to do that; by robbing you of more money as often as he finds it for his interest or pleasure to do so; and by branding you as a rebel, a traitor, and an enemy to your country, and shooting you down without mercy if you dispute his authority, or resist his demands. He is too much of a gentleman to be guilty of such impostures, and insults, and villainies as these</span>. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">In short, he does not, in addition to robbing you, attempt to make you either (A) his dupe or his slave.[6</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 4px;">]</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;"> It is instructive to inquire why it is that the State, in contrast to the highwayman, invariably surrounds itself with an ideology of legitimacy, why it must indulge in all the hypocrisies that Spooner outlines. The reason is that the highwayman is not a visible, permanent, legal, or legitimate member of society, let alone a member with exalted status. He is always on the run from his victims or from the State itself. But the State, in contrast to a band of highwaymen, is not considered a criminal organization; on the contrary, its minions have generally held the positions of highest status in society. It is a status that allows the State to feed off its victims while making at least most of them support, or at least be resigned to, this exploitative process.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">In fact, it is precisely the function of the State's ideological minions and allies to explain to the public that the Emperor does indeed have a fine set of clothes</span>//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">In brief, the ideologists must explain that, while theft by one or more persons or groups is bad and criminal, that when the State engages in such acts, it is not theft but the legitimate and even sanctified act called "taxation."</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The ideologists must explain that murder by one or more persons or groups is bad and must be punished, but that when the State kills it is not murder but an exalted act known as "war" or "repression of internal subversion." They must explain that while kidnapping or slavery is bad and must be outlawed when done by private individuals or groups, that when the State commits such acts it is not kidnapping or slavery but "conscription" – an act necessary to the public weal and even to the requirements of morality itself.</span>// <span style="font-size: 4px;">The function of the statist ideologists is to weave the false set of Emperor's clothes, to convince the public of a massive double standard: that when the State commits the gravest of high crimes it is really not doing so, but doing something else that is necessary, proper, vital, and even – in former ages – by divine command. The age-old success of the ideologists of the State is perhaps the most gigantic hoax in the history of mankind. Ideology has always been vital to the continued existence of the State, as attested by the systematic use of ideology since the ancient Oriental empires. The specific content of the ideology has, of course, changed over time, in accordance with changing conditions and cultures. In the Oriental despotisms, the Emperor was often held by the Church to be himself divine; in our more secular age, the argument runs more to "the public good" and the "general welfare." But the purpose is always the same: to convince the public that what the State does is not, as one might think, crime on a gigantic scale, but something necessary and vital that must be supported and obeyed. The reason that ideology is so vital to the State is that it always rests, in essence, on the support of the majority of the public. This support obtains whether the State is a "democracy," a dictatorship, or an absolute monarchy. For the support rests in the willingness of the majority (not, to repeat, of every individual) to go along with the system: to pay the taxes, to go without much complaint to fight the State's wars, to obey the State's rules and decrees. This support need not be active enthusiasm to be effective; it can just as well be passive resignation. But support there must be. For if the bulk of the public were really convinced of the illegitimacy of the State, if it were convinced that the State is nothing more nor less than a bandit gang writ large, then the State would soon collapse to take on no more status or breadth of existence than another Mafia gang. Hence the necessity of the State's employment of ideologists; and hence the necessity of the State's age-old alliance with the Court Intellectuals who weave the apologia for State rule. The first modern political theorist who saw that all States rest on majority opinion was the sixteenth-century libertarian French writer, Étienne de la Boetie. In his Discourse on Voluntary Servitude, de la Boetie saw that the tyrannical State is always a minority of the population, and that therefore its continued despotic rule must rest on its legitimacy in the eyes of the exploited majority, on what would later come to be called "the engineering of consent." Two hundred years later, David Hume – though scarcely a libertarian – set forth a similar analysis.[7] The counter-argument that,</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">with modern weapons, a minority force can </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">permanently cow a hostile majority ignores the fact that these weapons can be held by the majority and that the armed force of the minority can mutiny or defect to the side of the populace. </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">Hence, the permanent need for persuasive ideology has always led the State to bring into its rubric the nation's opinion-molding intellectuals. In former days, the intellectuals were invariably the priests, and hence, as we have pointed out, the age-old alliance between Church and State, Throne and Altar. Nowadays, "scientific" and "value-free" economists and "national security managers," among others, perform a similar ideological function in behalf of State power. Particularly important in the modern world – now that an Established Church is often no longer feasible – is for the State to assume control over education, and thereby to mould the minds of its subjects. In addition to influencing the universities through all manner of financial subventions, and through state-owned universities directly, the State controls education on the lower levels through the universal institutions of the public school, through certification requirements for private schools, and through compulsory attendance laws. Add to this a virtually total control over radio and television – either through outright State ownership, as in most countries, or, as in the United States, by the nationalization of the airwaves, and by the power of a federal commission to license the right of stations to use those frequencies and channels.[8]</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus, the State, by its very nature, must violate the generally accepted moral laws to which most people adhere. </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">Most people are agreed on the injustice and criminality of murder and theft. The customs, rules, and laws of all societies condemn these actions. The State, then, is always in a vulnerable position, despite its seeming age-old might. What particularly needs to be done is to enlighten the public on the State's true nature, so that they can see that</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the State habitually violates the generally accepted injunctions against robbery and murder, that the State is the necessary violator of the commonly accepted moral and criminal law. </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">We have seen clearly why the State needs the intellectuals; but why do the intellectuals need the State? Put simply, it is because intellectuals, whose services are often not very intensively desired by the mass of consumers, can find a more secure "market" for their abilities in the arms of the State. The State can provide them with a power, status, and wealth which they often cannot obtain in voluntary exchange. For centuries, many (though, of course, not all) intellectuals have sought the goal of Power, the realization of the Platonic ideal of the "philosopher-king." Consider, for example, the cry from the heart by the distinguished Marxist scholar, Professor Needham, in protest against the acidulous critique by Karl Wittfogel of the alliance of State-and-intellectuals in Oriental despotisms: "The civilization which Professor Wittfogel is so bitterly attacking was one which could make poets and scholars into officials." Needham adds that "the successive [Chinese] emperors were served in all ages by a great company of profoundly humane and disinterested scholars."[9] Presumably, for Professor Needham, this is enough to justify the grinding despotisms of the ancient Orient. But we need not go back as far as the ancient Orient or even as far as the proclaimed goal of the professors at the University of Berlin, in the nineteenth century, to form themselves into "the intellectual bodyguard of the House of Hohenzollern." In contemporary America, we have the eminent political scientist, Professor Richard Neustadt, hailing the President as the "sole crownlike symbol of the Union." We have national security manager Townsend Hoopes writing that "under our system the people can look only to the President to define the nature of our foreign policy problem and the national programs and sacrifices required to meet it with effectiveness." And, in response, we have Richard Nixon, on the eve of his election as President, defining his role as follows: "He [the President] must articulate the nation's values, define its goals and marshal its will." Nixon's conception of his role is hauntingly similar to the scholar Ernst Huber's articulation, in the Germany of the 1930s, of the Constitutional Law of the Greater German Reich. Huber wrote that the head of State "sets up the great ends which are to be attained and draws up the plans for the utilization of all national powers in the achievement of the common goals ... he gives the national life its true purpose and value."[10]</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus, the State is a coercive criminal organization that subsists by a regularized large-scale system of taxation-theft,</span>// <span style="font-size: 4px;">and which gets away with it by engineering the support of the majority (not, again, of everyone) through securing an alliance with a group of opinion-moulding intellectuals whom it rewards with a share in its power and pelf. But there is another vital aspect of the State that needs to be considered. There is one critical argument for the State that now comes into view: namely, the implicit argument that the State apparatus really and properly owns the territorial area over which it claims jurisdiction. The State, in short, arrogates to itself a monopoly of force, of ultimate decision-making power, over a given territorial area – larger or smaller depending on historical conditions, and on how much it has been able to wrest from other States. If the State may be said to properly own its territory, then it is proper for it to make rules for anyone who presumes to live in that area. It can legitimately seize or control private property because there is no private property in its area, because it really owns the entire land surface. So long as the State permits its subjects to leave its territory, then, it can be said to act as does any other owner who sets down rules for people living on his property. (This seems to be the only justification for the crude slogan, "America, love it or leave it!," as well as the enormous emphasis generally placed on an individual's right to emigrate from a country.) In short, this theory makes the State, as well as the King in the Middle Ages, a feudal overlord, who at least theoretically owned all the land in his domain. The fact that new and unowned resources – whether virgin land or lakes – are invariably claimed as owned by the State (its "public domain") is an expression of this implicit theory. But our homesteading theory, outlined above, suffices to demolish any such pretensions by the State apparatus. For by what earthly right do the criminals of the State lay claim to the ownership of its land area? It is bad enough that they have seized control of ultimate decision-making for that area; what criterion can possibly give them the rightful ownership of the entire territory? The State may therefore be defined as that organization which possesses either or both (in actual fact, almost always both) of the following characteristics: 1. it acquires its revenue by physical coercion (taxation); and 2. it achieves a compulsory monopoly of force and of ultimate decision-making power over a given territorial area. Both of these essential activities of the State necessarily constitute criminal aggression and depredation of the just rights of private property of its subjects (including self-ownership). For the first constitutes and establishes theft on a grand scale; while the second prohibits the free competition of defense and decision-making agencies within a given territorial area – prohibiting the voluntary purchase and sale of defense and judicial services.[11] Hence the justice of the vivid critique of the State by the libertarian theorist Albert Jay Nock: "The State claims and exercises the monopoly of crime" in a given territorial area. "It forbids private murder, but itself organizes murder on a colossal scale. It punishes private theft, but itself lays unscrupulous hands on anything it wants, whether the property of citizen or alien."[12] It must be emphasized that the State does not merely use coercion to acquire its own revenue, to hire propagandists to advance its power, and to arrogate to itself and to enforce a compulsory monopoly of such vital services as police protection, firefighting, transportation, and postal service. For the State does many other things as well, none of which can in any sense be said to serve the consuming public. It uses its monopoly of force to achieve, as Nock puts it, a "monopoly of crime" – to control, regulate, and coerce its hapless subjects.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Often it pushes its way into controlling the morality and the very daily lives of its subjects. The state uses its coerced revenue, not merely to monopolize and provide genuine services inefficiently to the public, but also to build up its own power at the expense of its exploited and harassed subjects: to redistribute income and wealth from the public to itself and to its allies, and to control, command, and coerce the inhabitants of its territory. In a truly free society, a society where individual rights of person and property are maintained, the State, then, would necessarily cease to exist. Its myriad of invasive and aggressive activities, its vast depredations on the rights of person and property, would then disappear. At the same time, those genuine services which it does manage badly to perform would be thrown open to free competition, and to voluntarily chosen payments by individual consumers</span>////<span style="font-size: 4px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">The grotesquerie of the typical conservative call for the government to enforce conservative definitions of "morality" (e.g., by outlawing the alleged immorality of pornography) is therefore starkly revealed. Aside from other sound arguments against enforced morality (e.g., that no action not freely chosen can be considered "moral"), it is surely grotesque to entrust the function of guardian of the public morality to the most extensive criminal (and hence the most immoral) group in society – the State.</span>



===Death Cult=== 

====1NC==== 

The aff’s invocation of death is necrophilia – an obsession with body counts that results in extinction - Vote neg to reject death impacts—this is a gateway issue—if they win death impacts are good, the rest of the 1NC applies
Erich <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Fromm 64,</span> PhD in sociology from Heidelberg in 1922, psychology prof at MSU in the 60’s, “Creators and Destroyers”, The Saturday Review, New York (04. January 1964), pp. 22-25
<span style="font-size: 16px;">People are aware of the possibility of nuclear war; they are aware of the destruction such a war could bring with it--and yet they seemingly make no effort to avoid it</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Most of us are puzzled by this behavior because we start out from the premise that people love life and fear death. Perhaps we should be less puzzled if we questioned this premise</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Maybe there are many people who are indifferent to life and many others who do not love life but who do love death</span>. There is an orientation which we may call love of life (biophilia); it is the normal orientation among healthy persons. But there is also to be found in others a deep attraction to death which, following Unamuno's classic speech made at the University of Salamanca (1938), I call <span style="font-size: 16px;">necrophilia</span>. It is the attitude which a Franco general, Millán Astray, expressed in the slogan "Long live death, thus provoking Unamuno’s protest against this "necrophilous and senseless cry." Who is a necrophilous person? He is one who <span style="font-size: 16px;">is attracted to and fascinated by all that is not alive</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">to all that isdead; to corpses, to decay, to feces, to dirt</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Necrophiles are those people who love to talk about sickness, burials, death</span>. They come to life precisely when they can talk about death. A clear example of the pure necrophilous type was Hitler. He //<span style="font-size: 16px;">was fascinated by destruction</span>//, and the smell of death was sweet to him. While in the years of success it may have appeared that he wanted only to destroy those whom he considered his enemies, the days of the Götterdämmerung at the end showed that his deepest satisfaction lay in witnessing total and absolute destruction: that of the German people, of those around him, and of himself. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The necrophilous</span> dwell in the past, never in the future. Their feelings are essentially sentimental; that is, they <span style="font-size: 16px;">nurse</span> the <span style="font-size: 16px;">memory</span> of feelings which they had yesterday--or believe that they had. They are cold, distant, devotees of "law and order." Their values are precisely the reverse of the values we connect with normal life; not life, but <span style="font-size: 16px;">death excites and satisfies them</span>. If one wants to understand the influence of men like <span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitler and Stalin</span>, it lies precisely in their unlimited capacity and willingness to kill. For this they' <span style="font-size: 16px;">were loved by the necrophiles</span>. Of the rest, many were afraid of them and so preferred to admire, rather than to be aware of, their fear. Many others did not sense the necrophilous quality of these leaders and saw in them the builders, saviors, good fathers. If the necrophilous leaders had not pretended that they were builders and protectors, the number of people attracted to them would hardly have been sufficient to help them seize power, and the number of those repelled by them would probably soon have led to their downfall. While life is characterized by growth in a structured, functional manner, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the necrophilous principle is all that which does not grow, that which is mechanical</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The necrophilous person is driven by the desire to transform the organic into the inorganic, to approach life mechanically, as if all living persons were things. All living processes, feelings, and thoughts are transformed into things</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Memory</span>, rather than experience--having, rather than being--<span style="font-size: 16px;">are what counts. The necrophilous person can relate to an object</span>--a flower or a person--<span style="font-size: 16px;">only if he possesses it</span>; hence, a threat to his possession is a threat to himself; if he loses possession he loses contact with the world. That is why we find the paradoxical reaction that he would rather lose life than possession, even though, by losing life, he who possesses has ceased to exist. <span style="font-size: 16px;">He loves control, and in the act of controlling he kills life</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">He is deeply afraid of life, because it is disorderly and uncontrollable by its very nature</span>. The woman who wrongly claims to be the mother of the child in the story of Solomon's judgment is typical of this tendency; she would rather have a properly divided dead child than lose a living one. <span style="font-size: 16px;">To the necrophilous person justice means correct division, and they are willing to kill or die for the sake of what they call, justice. "Law and order"</span> for them <span style="font-size: 16px;">are idols, and everything that threatens law and order is felt as a satanic attack against their supreme values</span>. The necrophilous person is attracted to darkness and night. In mythology and poetry (as well as in dreams) he is attracted to caves, or to the depth of the ocean, or depicted as being blind. (The trolls in Ibsen's Peer Gynt are a good example.) All that is away from or directed against life attracts him. He wants to return to the darkness {23} of the womb, to the past of inorganic or subhuman existence. He is essentially oriented to the past, not to the future, which he hates and fears. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Related to this is his craving for certainty. But life is never certain, never predictable, never controllable; in order to make life controllable, it must be transformed into death; death</span>, indeed, <span style="font-size: 16px;">is the only thing about life that is certain</span> to him. The necrophilous person can often be recognized by his looks and his gestures. He is cold, his skin looks dead, and often he has an expression on his face as though he were smelling a bad odor. (This expression could be clearly seen in Hitler's face.) He is orderly and obsessive. This aspect of the necrophilous person has been demonstrated to the world in the figure of Eichmann. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Eichmann</span> was fascinated by order and death. His supreme values were obedience and the proper functioning of the organization. He transported Jews as he would have transported coal. That they were human beings was hardly within the field of his vision; hence, even the problem of his having hated or not hated his victims is irrelevant. He <span style="font-size: 16px;">was the perfect bureaucrat who had transformed all life into the administration of things</span>. But examples of the necrophilous character are by no means to be found only among the inquisitors, the Hitlers and the Eichmanns. There are any number of individuals who do not have the opportunity and the power to kill, vet whose necrophilia expresses itself in other and (superficially seen) more harmless ways. An example is the mother who will always be interested in her child's sickness, in his failures, in dark prognoses for the future; at the same time she will not be impressed by a favorable change nor respond to her child's joy, nor will she notice anything new that is growing within him. We might find that her dreams deal with sickness, death, corpses, blood. She does not harm the child in any obvious way, yet she may slowly strangle the child's joy of life, his faith--in growth, and eventually infect him with her own necrophilous orientation. My description may have given the impression that all the features mentioned here are necessarily found in the necrophilous person. It is true that such divergent features as the wish to kill, the worship of force, the attraction to death and dirt, sadism, the wish to transform the organic into the inorganic through "order" are all part of the same basic orientation. Yet so far as individuals are concerned, there are considerable differences with respect to the strength of these respective trends. Any one of the features mentioned here may be more pronounced in one person than in another. Furthermore, the degree to which a person is necrophilous in comparison with his biophilous aspects and the degree to which a person is aware of necrophilous tendencies and rationalizes them vary considerably from person to person. Yet the concept of the necrophilous type is by no means an abstraction or summary of various disparate behavior trends. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Necrophilia constitutes a fundamental orientation; it is the one answer to life that is in complete opposition to life</span>; <span style="font-size: 16px;">it is the most morbid and the most dangerous among the orientations to life of which man is capable</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">It is true perversion; while living, not life but death is loved--not growth, but destruction</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The necrophilous person</span>, if he dares to be aware of what he feels, <span style="font-size: 16px;">expresses the motto</span> of his life when he says: "<span style="font-size: 16px;">Long live death</span>!" <span style="font-size: 16px;">The opposite of the necrophilous orientation is the biophilous one; its essence is love of life in contrast to love of death</span>. Like necrophilia, <span style="font-size: 16px;">biophilia is</span> not constituted by a single trait but represents <span style="font-size: 16px;">a total orientation, an entire way of being</span>. It is manifested in a person's bodily processes, in his emotions, in his thoughts, in his gestures; the biophilous orientation expresses itself in the whole man. The person who fully loves life is attracted by the process of life in all spheres. He prefers to construct, rather than to retain. <span style="font-size: 16px;">He is capable of wondering, and he prefers to see something new to the security of finding the old confirmed</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">He loves the adventure of living more than he does certainty. His approach to life is functional rather than mechanical</span>. He sees the whole rather than only the parts, structures rather than summations. He wants to mold and to influence by love, by reason, by his example--not by force, by cutting things apart, by the bureaucratic manner of administering people as if they were things. He enjoys life and all its manifestations, rather than mere excitement. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Biophilic ethics has its own principle of good and evil. Good is all that serves life; evil is all that serves death</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Good is reverence for life</span> (this is the main thesis of Albert Schweitzer, one of the great representatives of the love of life--both in his writings and in his person), <span style="font-size: 16px;">and all that enhances life. Evil is all that stifles life, narrows it down</span>, {24} <span style="font-size: 16px;">cuts it into pieces</span>. Thus it is from the standpoint of life-ethics that the Bible mentions as the central sin of the Hebrews: "Because thou didst not serve thy Lord with joy and gladness of heart in the abundance of all things." The conscience of the biophilous person is not one of forcing oneself to refrain from evil and to do good. It is not the superego described by .Freud, a strict taskmaster employing sadism against oneself for the sake of virtue. The biophilous conscience is motivated by its attraction to life and joy; the moral effort consists in strengthening the life loving side in oneself. For this reasons <span style="font-size: 16px;">the biophile does not dwell in remorse and guilt</span>, <span style="font-size: 16px;">which are</span>, after all, <span style="font-size: 16px;">only aspects of self-loathing and sadness. He turns quickly to life and attempts to do good</span>. Spinoza's Ethics is a striking example of biophilic morality. "Pleasure," he says, "in itself is not bad but good; contrariwise, pain in itself is bad." And in the same spirit: "//<span style="font-size: 16px;">A free man thinks of death least of all things; and</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> his wisdom is a meditation not of death but of life</span>//." Love of life underlies the various versions of humanistic philosophy. In various conceptual forms these philosophies are in the same vein as Spinoza's; they express the principle that the same man loves life; <span style="font-size: 16px;">that man's aim in life is to be attracted by all that is alive and to separate himself from all that is dead and mechanical</span>. The dichotomy of biophilia-necrophilia is the same as Freud's life-and-death instinct. I believe, as Freud did, that this is the most fundamental polarity that exists. However, there is one important difference. Freud assumes that the striving toward death and toward life are two biologically given tendencies inherent in all living substance that their respective strengths are relatively constant, and that there is only one alternative within the operation of the death instinct--namely, that it can be directed against the outside world or against oneself. In contrast to these assumptions I believe that necrophilia is not a normal biological tendency, but a pathological phenomenon--in fact, the most malignant pathology that exists in mail. What are we, the people of the United States today, with respect to necrophilia and biophilia? Undoubtedly our spiritual tradition is one of love of life. And not only this. Was there ever a culture with more love of "fun" and excitement, or with greater opportunities for the majority to enjoy fun and excitement? But even if this is so, fun and excitement is not the same as joy and love of life; perhaps underneath there is indifference to life, or attraction to death? To answer this question <span style="font-size: 16px;">we must consider the nature of our bureaucratized, industrial, mass civilization. Our approach to life becomes increasingly mechanical. The aim of social efforts is to produce things, and. in the process of idolatry of things we transform ourselves into commodities</span>. The question here is not whether they are treated nicely and are well fed (things, too, can be treated nicely); <span style="font-size: 16px;">the question is whether people are things or living beings</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">People love mechanical gadgets more than living beings</span>. The approach to man is intellectualabstract. <span style="font-size: 16px;">One is interested in people as objects, in their common properties, in the statistical rules of mass behavior, not in living individuals</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">All this goes together with the increasing role of bureaucratic methods. In giant centers of production, giant cities, giant countries, men are administered as if they were things; men and their administrators are transformed into things, and they obey the law of things</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">In a bureaucratically organized and centralized industrialism, men's tastes are manipulated so that they consume maximally and in predictable and profitable directions. Their intelligence and character become standardized by the ever-increasing use of tests, which select the mediocre and unadventurous over the original and daring</span>. Indeed, the bureaucratic-industrial civilization that has been victorious in Europe and North America has created a new type of man. He has been described as the "organization man" and as homo consumens. He is in addition the homo mechanicus. By this I mean a "gadget man," deeply attracted to all that is mechanical and inclined against all that is alive. It is, of course, true that man's biological and physiological equipment provides him with such strong sexual impulses that even the homo mechanicus still has sexual desires and looks for women. But there is no doubt that the gadget man's interest in women is diminishing. A New Yorker cartoon pointed to this very amusingly: a sales girl trying to sell a certain brand of perfume to a young female customer recommends it by remarking, "It smells like a new sports car." Indeed, any observer of men's behavior today will confirm that this cartoon is more than a clever joke. There are apparently a great number of men who are more interested in sports-cars, television and radio sets, space travel, and any number of gadgets than they are in women, love, nature, food; who are more stimulated by the manipulation of non-organic, mechanical things than by life. Their attitude toward a woman is like that toward a car: you push the button and watch it race. It is not even too farfetched to assume that <span style="font-size: 16px;">homo mechanicus has more pride in and is more fascinated by, devices that can kill millions of people across a distance of several thousands of miles within minutes than he is frightened and depressed by the possibility of such mass destruction</span>. Homo mechanicus still likes sex {25} and drink. But all these pleasures are sought for in the frame of reference of the mechanical and the unalive. He expects that there must be a button which, if pushed, brings happiness, love, pleasure. (Many go to a psychoanalyst under the illusion that he can teach them to find the button.) The homo mechanicus becomes more and more interested in the manipulation of machines, rather than in the participation in and response to life. Hence he becomes indifferent to life, fascinated by the mechanical, and eventually attracted by death and total destruction. This affinity between the love of destruction and the love of the mechanical may well have been expressed for the first time in Marinetti's Futurist Manifesto (1909). "A roaring motor-car, which looks as though running on a shrapnel is more beautiful than the Victory of Samothrace. … <span style="font-size: 16px;">We wish to </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">glorify war</span>//--the only health-giver of the world-militarism, patriotism, the destructive arm of the Anarchist, the beautiful Ideas that kill the contempt for woman." Briefly then, <span style="font-size: 16px;">intellectualization, quantification, abstractification, bureaucratization, and reification</span>--the very characteristics of modern industrial society--<span style="font-size: 16px;">when applied to people rather than to things are not the principles of life but those of mechanics</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">People living in such a system must necessarily become indifferent to life, even attracted to death. They are not aware of this. They take the thrills of excitement for the joys of life and live under the illusion that they are very much alive when they only have many things to own and to use. The lack of protest against nuclear war and the discussion of our "atomologists" of the balance sheet of total or half-total destruction show how far we have already gone into the "valley of the shadow of death</span>."1 To speak of the necrophilous quality of our industrial civilization does not imply that industrial production as such is necessarily contrary to the principles of life. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The question is whether the principles of social organization and of life are subordinated to those of mechanization, or whether the principles of life are the dominant ones</span>. Obviously, the industrialized world has not found thus far an answer, to the question posed here: How is it possible to create a humanist industrialism as against the bureaucratic mass industrialism that rules our lives today? The danger of nuclear war is so grave that man may arrive at a new barbarism before he has even a chance to find the road to a humanist industrialism. Yet <span style="font-size: 16px;">not all hope is lost</span>; hence we might ask ourselves whether the hypothesis developed here could in any way contribute to finding peaceful solutions. I believe it might be useful in several ways. First of all, <span style="font-size: 16px;">an awareness of our pathological situation</span>, while not yet a cure, <span style="font-size: 16px;">is</span> nevertheless <span style="font-size: 16px;">a first step</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">If more people became aware of the difference between love of life and love of death, if they became aware that they themselves are already far gone in the direction of indifference or of necrophilia, this shock alone could produce new and healthy reactions</span>. Furthermore, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the sensitivity toward those who recommend death might be increased</span>. Many might see through the pious rationalizations of the death lovers and change their admiration for them to disgust. Beyond this, our hypothesis would suggest one thing to those concerned with peace and survival: that <span style="font-size: 16px;">every effort must be made to weaken the attraction of death and to strengthen the attraction of life</span>. Why not declare that there is only one truly dangerous subversion, the subversion of life? Why do not those who represent the traditions of religion and humanism speak up and say that there is no deadlier sin than love for death and contempt for life? Why not encourage our best brains--scientists, artists, educators--to make suggestions on how to arouse and stimulate love for life as opposed to love for gadgets? I know love for gadgets brings profits to the corporations, while love for life requires fewer things and hence is less profitable. Maybe it is too late. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Maybe the neutron bomb, which leaves entire cities intact, but without life, is to be the symbol of our civilization</span>. <span style="font-size: 16px;">But again, those of us who love life will not cease the struggle against necrophilia</span>.

===Security=== 

====1NC==== 


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The plan can’t solve – it ensures structural violence </span>
Micah <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zenko</span>, <span style="font-size: 8px;">Fellow for Conflict Prevention Expertise, Conflict prevention; U.S. national security policy; military planning and operations; nuclear weapons policy, Council of foreign affairs,</span> <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Michael A</span>. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cohen</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">was a Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation and ran the Privatization of Foreign Policy Initiative, which examined the growing influence and impact of non-state actors in U.S. foreign policy. He is also the author of Live From the Campaign Trail: The Greatest Presidential Campaign Speeches of the 20th Century and How They Shaped Modern America (Walker Books: 2008). Prior to joining New America, Mr. Cohen served in the U.S. Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat. He has worked at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Foreign Policy magazine, and as chief speechwriter for Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT). Mr. Cohen serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs. Mr. Cohen holds a bachelor's degree in international relations from American University and a master's degree from Columbia University, March/April</span> <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>, <span style="font-size: 8px;">“Clear and Present Safety” , [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137279/micah-zenko-and-michael-a-cohen/clear-and-present-safety]], KENTUCKY</span>

<span style="font-size: 4px;">Within the foreign policy elite</span>, there exists a pervasive belief that the <span style="font-size: 4px;">post–Cold War </span>world is a treacherous place, full of great uncertainty and grave risks. A 2009 survey <span style="font-size: 4px;">conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found </span>that 69 percent of members of the Council on Foreign Relations believed that for the United States at that moment, the world was either as dangerous as or more dangerous than it was during the Cold War. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Similarly, in 2008</span>, the Center for American Progress surveyed more than 100 foreign policy experts and found that 70 percent of them believed that the world was becoming more dangerous. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Perhaps</span> //more than any other idea, this belief shapes debates on U.S. foreign policy and frames the public’s understanding of international affairs.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">In the United States, </span>//the chances of dying from a terrorist attack or in a military conflict have fallen almost to zero.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">There is just one problem. It is simply wrong.</span> //The world that the United States inhabits today is a remarkably safe and secure place. It is a world with fewer violent conflicts and greater political freedom than at virtually any other point in human history//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">All over the world, people enjoy longer life expectancy and greater economic opportunity than ever before</span>. //The United States faces no plausible// <span style="font-size: 4px;">existential </span>//threats, no great-power rival, and no near-term competition for the role of global hegemon.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">The U.S. military is the world’s most powerful, and even in the middle of a sustained downturn, the U.S. economy remains among one of the world’s most vibrant and adaptive. Although the United States faces a host of international challenges, they pose little risk to the overwhelming majority of American citizens and can be managed with existing diplomatic, economic, and, to a much lesser extent, military tools. This reality is barely reflected in U.S. national security strategy or in American foreign policy debates. President Barack Obama’s most recent National Security Strategy aspires to “a world in which America is stronger, more secure, and is able to overcome our challenges while appealing to the aspirations of people around the world.” Yet that is basically the world that exists today. The</span> United States is the world’s most powerful nation, unchallenged and secure. But the country’s political and policy elite seems unwilling to recognize this fact, much less integrate it into foreign policy and national security decision-making. //The disparity between foreign threats and domestic threat-mongering results from a confluence of factors////<span style="font-size: 4px;">.</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;"> The most obvious and important is electoral politics. Hyping dangers serves the interests of both political parties. For Republicans, who have long benefited from attacking Democrats for their alleged weakness in the face of foreign threats, there is little incentive to tone down the rhetoric</span>; the notion of a dangerous world plays to perhaps their greatest political advantage. <span style="font-size: 4px;">For Democrats, who are fearful of being cast as feckless, acting and sounding tough is a shield against GOP attacks and an insurance policy in case a challenge to the United States materializes into a genuine threat. Warnings about a dangerous world also benefit powerful bureaucratic interests</span>. //The specter of looming dangers sustains and justifies the massive budgets of the military and the intelligence agencies, along with the national security infrastructure that exists outside government -- defense contractors, lobbying groups, think tanks, and academic departments. There is also a pernicious feedback loop at work. Because of the chronic exaggeration of the threats facing the United States, Washington overemphasizes military approaches to problems// (including many //that could best be solved by nonmilitary means//). //The militarization of foreign policy leads, in turn, to further dark warnings about the potentially harmful effects of any effort to rebalance U.S. national security spending or trim the massive military budget -- warnings that are inevitably bolstered by more threat exaggeration////<span style="font-size: 4px;">.</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;"> Last fall, General Norton Schwartz, the U.S. Air Force chief of staff, said that defense cuts that would return military spending to its 2007 level would undermine the military’s “ability to protect the nation” and could create “dire consequences.” Along the same lines, Panetta warned that the same reductions would “invite aggression” from enemies. These are a puzzling statements given that the U.S. defense budget is larger than the next 14 countries’ defense budgets combined and that the United States still maintains weapons systems designed to fight an enemy that disappeared 20 years ago. Of course, threat inflation is not new. During the Cold War, although the United States faced genuine existential threats, American political leaders nevertheless hyped smaller threats or conflated them with larger ones.</span> //Today, there are no dangers to the United States// remotely resembling those of the Cold War era//, yet policymakers routinely talk in the alarmist terms once used to describe superpower conflict//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Indeed, the mindset of the United States in the post-9/11 world was best (albeit crudely) captured by former Vice President Dick Cheney. While in office, Cheney promoted the idea that the United States must prepare for even the most remote threat as though it were certain to occur. The journalist Ron Suskind termed this belief “the one percent doctrine,” a reference to what Cheney called the “one percent chance that Pakistani scientists are helping al Qaeda build or develop a nuclear weapon.” According to Suskind, Cheney insisted that the United States must treat such a remote potential threat “as a certainty in terms of our response.” Such hair-trigger responsiveness is rarely replicated outside the realm of national security, even when the government confronts problems that cause Americans far more harm than any foreign threat. According to an analysis by the budget expert Linda Bilmes and the economist Joseph Stiglitz, in the ten years since 9/11, the combined direct and indirect costs of the U.S. response to the murder of almost 3,000 of its citizens have totaled more than $3 trillion. A study by the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, estimated that during an overlapping period, from 2000 to 2006, 137,000 Americans died prematurely because they lacked health insurance. Although the federal government maintains robust health insurance programs for older and poor Americans, its response to a national crisis in health care during that time paled in comparison to its response to the far less deadly terrorist attacks. Rather than Cheney’s one percent doctrine, what the United States actually needs is a 99 percent doctrine: a national security strategy based on the fact that the United States is a safe and well-protected country and grounded in the reality that the opportunities for furthering U.S. interests far exceed the threats to them. Fully comprehending the world as it is today is the best way to keep the United States secure and resistant to the overreactions that have defined its foreign policy for far too long. BETTER THAN EVER The United States, along with the rest of the world, currently faces a period of economic and political uncertainty.</span> But consider four long-term global trends that underscore just how misguided the constant fear-mongering in U.S. politics is: the falling prevalence of violent conflict, the declining incidence of terrorism, the spread of political freedom and prosperity, and the global improvement in public health. <span style="font-size: 4px;">In 1992, there were 53 armed conflicts raging in 39 countries around the world; in 2010, there were 30 armed conflicts in 25 countries. Of the latter, only four have resulted in at least 1,000 battle-related deaths and can therefore be classified as wars, according to the Uppsala Conflict Data Program: the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, and Somalia, two of which were started by the United States. Today, wars tend to be low-intensity conflicts that, on average, kill about 90 percent fewer people than did violent struggles in the 1950s. Indeed, the first decade of this century witnessed fewer deaths from war than any decade in the last century. Meanwhile, the world’s great powers have not fought a direct conflict in more than 60 years -- “the longest period of major power peace in centuries,” as the Human Security Report Project puts it</span>. //Nor is there much reason for the United States to fear such a war in the near future: no state currently has the capabilities or the inclination to confront the United States militarily. Washington should not assume that every problem in the world demands a U.S. response.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">Much of the fear that suffuses U.S. foreign policy stems from the trauma of 9/11. Yet although the tactic of terrorism remains a scourge in localized conflicts, between 2006 and 2010, the total number of terrorist attacks declined by almost 20 percent, and the number of deaths caused by terrorism fell by 35 percent, according to the U.S. State Department. In 2010, more than three-quarters of all victims of terrorism -- meaning deliberate, politically motivated violence by nonstate groups against noncombatant targets -- were injured or killed in the war zones of Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, and Somalia. Of the 13,186 people killed by terrorist attacks in 2010, only 15, or 0.1 percent, were U.S. citizens. In most places today -- and especially in the United States -- the chances of dying from a terrorist attack or in a military conflict have fallen almost to zero. As violence and war have abated, freedom and democratic governance have made great gains. According to Freedom House, there were 69 electoral democracies at the end of the Cold War; today, there are 117. And during that time, the number of autocracies declined from 62 to 48. To be sure, in the process of democratizing, states with weak political institutions can be more prone to near-term instability, civil wars, and interstate conflict. Nevertheless, over time, democracies tend to have healthier and better-educated citizens, almost never go to war with other democracies, and are less likely to fight nondemocracies. Economic bonds among states are also accelerating, even in the face of a sustained global economic downturn. Today, 153 countries belong to the World Trade Organization and are bound by its dispute-resolution mechanisms. Thanks to lowered trade barriers, exports now make up more than 30 percent of gross world product, a proportion that has tripled in the past 40 years. The United States has seen its exports to the world’s fastest-growing economies increase by approximately 500 percent over the past decade. Currency flows have exploded as well, with $4 trillion moving around the world in foreign exchange markets every day. Remittances, an essential instrument for reducing poverty in developing countries, have more than tripled in the past decade, to more than $440 billion each year. Partly as a result of these trends, poverty is on the decline: in 1981, half the people living in the developing world survived on less than $1.25 a day; today, that figure is about one-sixth. Like democratization, economic development occasionally brings with it significant costs. In particular, economic liberalization can strain the social safety net that supports a society’s most vulnerable populations and can exacerbate inequalities. Still, from the perspective of the United States, increasing economic interdependence is a net positive because trade and foreign direct investment between countries generally correlate with long-term economic growth and a reduced likelihood of war. A final trend contributing to the relative security of the United States is the improvement in global health and well-being. People in virtually all countries, and certainly in the United States, are living longer and healthier lives. In 2010, the number of people who died from AIDS-related causes declined for the third year in a row. Tuberculosis rates continue to fall, as do the rates of polio and malaria. Child mortality has plummeted worldwide, thanks in part to expanded access to health care, sanitation, and vaccines. In 1970, the global child mortality rate (deaths of children under five per 1,000) was 141; in 2010, it was 57. In 1970, global average life expectancy was 59, and U.S. life expectancy was 70. Today, the global figure is just under 70, and the U.S. figure is 79. These vast improvements in health and well-being contribute to the global trend toward security and safety because countries with poor human development are more war-prone. PHANTOM MENACE None of this is meant to suggest that the United States faces no major challenges today. Rather, the point is that the problems confronting the country are manageable and pose minimal risks to the lives of the overwhelming majority of Americans.</span> //None of them -- separately or in combination -- justifies the alarmist rhetoric of policymakers and politicians or should lead to the conclusion that Americans live in a dangerous world.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">Take terrorism. Since 9/11, no security threat has been hyped more. Considering the horrors of that day, that is not surprising. But the result has been a level of fear that is completely out of proportion to both the capabilities of terrorist organizations and the United States’ vulnerability. On 9/11, al Qaeda got tragically lucky. Since then, the United States has been preparing for the one percent chance (and likely even less) that it might get lucky again. But al Qaeda lost its safe haven after the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, and further military, diplomatic, intelligence, and law enforcement efforts have decimated the organization, which has essentially lost whatever ability it once had to seriously threaten the United States. According to U.S. officials, al Qaeda’s leadership has been reduced to two top lieutenants: Ayman al-Zawahiri and his second-in-command, Abu Yahya al-Libi. Panetta has even said that the defeat of al Qaeda is “within reach.” The near collapse of the original al Qaeda organization is one reason why, in the decade since 9/11, the U.S. homeland has not suffered any large-scale terrorist assaults. All subsequent attempts have failed or been thwarted, owing in part to the incompetence of their perpetrators. Although there are undoubtedly still some terrorists who wish to kill Americans, their dreams will likely continue to be frustrated by their own limitations and by the intelligence and law enforcement agencies of the United States and its allies. As the threat from transnational terrorist groups dwindles, the United States also faces few risks from other states. China is the most obvious potential rival to the United States, and there is little doubt that China’s rise will pose a challenge to U.S. economic interests. Moreover, there is an unresolved debate among Chinese political and military leaders about China’s proper global role, and the lack of transparency from China’s senior leadership about its long-term foreign policy objectives is a cause for concern. However,</span> the present security threat to the U.S. mainland is practically nonexistent and will remain so. Even as China tries to modernize its military, its defense spending is still approximately one-ninth that of the United States. In 2012, the Pentagon will spend roughly as much on military research and development alone as China will spend on its entire military. <span style="font-size: 4px;">While China clumsily flexes its muscles in the Far East by threatening to deny access to disputed maritime resources, a recent Pentagon report noted that China’s military ambitions remain dominated by “regional contingencies” and that the People’s Liberation Army has made little progress in developing capabilities that “extend global reach or power projection</span>//.” In the coming years, China will enlarge its regional role, but this growth will only threaten U.S. interests if Washington attempts to dominate East Asia and fails to consider China’s legitimate regional interests.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">It is true that China’s neighbors sometimes fear that China will not resolve its disputes peacefully, but this has compelled Asian countries to cooperate with the United States, maintaining bilateral alliances that together form a strong security architecture and limit China’s room to maneuver. The strongest arguments made by those warning of Chinese influence revolve around economic policy. The list of complaints includes a host of Chinese policies, from intellectual property theft and currency manipulation to economic espionage and domestic subsidies. Yet none of those is likely to lead to direct conflict with the United States beyond the competition inherent in international trade, which does not produce zero-sum outcomes and is constrained by dispute-resolution mechanisms, such as those of the World Trade Organization. If anything, China’s export-driven economic strategy, along with its large reserves of U.S. Treasury bonds, suggests that Beijing will continue to prefer a strong United States to a weak one. NUCLEAR FEAR It is a matter of faith among many American politicians that</span> //Iran is the greatest danger now facing the country.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">But if that is true, then the United States can</span> //breathe easy: Iran is a weak military power.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">According to the International Institute for Strategic Studies,</span> //Iran’s “military forces have almost no modern armor, artillery, aircraft or major combat ships, and UN sanctions will likely obstruct the purchase of high-technology weapons for the foreseeable future.”// Tehran’s stated intention to project its interests regionally through military or paramilitary forces has made Iran its own worst enemy. Iran’s neighbors are choosing to balance against the Islamic Republic rather than fall in line behind its leadership. <span style="font-size: 4px;">In 2006, Iran’s favorability rating in Arab countries stood at nearly 80 percent; today, it is under 30 percent. Like China’s neighbors in East Asia, the Gulf states have responded to Iran’s belligerence by participating in an emerging regional security arrangement with the United States, which includes advanced conventional weapons sales, missile defenses, intelligence sharing, and joint military exercises, all of which have further isolated Iran. Of course, the gravest concerns about Iran focus on its nuclear activities. Those fears have led to some of the most egregiously alarmist rhetoric: at a Republican national security debate in November, Romney claimed that an Iranian nuclear weapon is “the greatest threat the world faces.” But it remains unclear whether Tehran has even decided to pursue a bomb or has merely decided to develop a turnkey capability. Either way, Iran’s leaders have been sufficiently warned that the United States would respond with overwhelming force to the use or transfer of nuclear weapons.</span> //Although a nuclear Iran would be troubling to the region, the United States and its allies would be able to contain Tehran and deter its aggression -- and the threat to the U.S. homeland would continue to be minimal. Overblown fears of a nuclear Iran are part of a more generalized American anxiety about the continued potential of nuclear attacks//<span style="font-size: 4px;">. Obama’s National Security Strategy claims that “the American people face no greater or more urgent danger than a terrorist attack with a nuclear weapon.” According to the document, “international peace and security is threatened by proliferation that could lead to a nuclear exchange. Indeed, since the end of the Cold War, the risk of a nuclear attack has increased.” If the context is a state-against-state nuclear conflict, the latter assertion is patently false. The</span> //demise of the Soviet Union ended the greatest potential for international nuclear conflict. China, with only 72 intercontinental nuclear missiles, is eminently deterrable and not a credible nuclear threat//; <span style="font-size: 4px;">it has no answer for the United States’ second-strike capability and the more than 2,000 nuclear weapons with which the United States could strike China. In the past decade, Cheney and other one-percenters have frequently warned of the danger posed by loose nukes or uncontrolled fissile material. In fact,</span> the threat of a nuclear device ending up in the hands of a terrorist group has diminished markedly since the early 1990s, <span style="font-size: 4px;">when the Soviet Union’s nuclear arsenal was dispersed across all of Russia’s 11 time zones, all 15 former Soviet republics, and much of eastern Europe. Since then,</span> cooperative U.S.-Russian efforts have resulted in the substantial consolidation of those weapons at far fewer sites and in comprehensive security upgrades at almost all the facilities that still possess nuclear material or warheads, making the possibility of theft or diversion unlikely. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Moreover, the lessons learned from securing Russia’s nuclear arsenal are now being applied in other countries, under the framework of Obama’s April 2010 Nuclear Security Summit, which produced</span> a global plan to secure all nuclear materials within four years. Since then, participants in the plan, including Chile, Mexico, Ukraine, and Vietnam, have fulfilled more than 70 percent of the commitments they made at the summit. //Pakistan represents another potential source of loose nukes//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">The United States’ military strategy in Afghanistan, with its reliance on drone strikes and cross-border raids, has actually contributed to instability in Pakistan, worsened U.S. relations with Islamabad, and potentially increased the possibility of a weapon falling into the wrong hands. Indeed,</span> //Pakistani fears of a U.S. raid on its nuclear arsenal have// reportedly //led Islamabad to disperse its weapons to multiple sites, transporting them in unsecured civilian vehicles. But even in Pakistan, the chances of a terrorist organization procuring a nuclear weapon are infinitesimally small//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">The U.S. Department of Energy has provided assistance to improve the security of Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal, and successive senior U.S. government officials have repeated what former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said in January 2010: that the United States is “very comfortable with the security of Pakistan’s nuclear weapons.”</span> //A more recent bogeyman in national security debates is the threat of so-called cyberwar. Policymakers and pundits have been warning for more than a decade about an imminent “cyber–Pearl Harbor” or “cyber-9/11.”// <span style="font-size: 4px;">In June 2011, then Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn said that “bits and bytes can be as threatening as bullets and bombs.” And in September 2011, Admiral Mike Mullen, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, described cyberattacks as an “existential” threat that “actually can bring us to our knees.” Although the potential vulnerability of private businesses and government agencies to cyberattacks has increased</span>, //the alleged threat of cyberwarfare crumbles under scrutiny. No cyberattack has resulted in the loss of a single U.S. citizen’s life//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Reports of “kinetic-like” cyberattacks, such as one on an Illinois water plant and a North Korean attack on U.S. government servers, have proved baseless</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">.</span> Pentagon networks are attacked thousands of times a day by individuals and foreign intelligence agencies; so, too, are servers in the private sector. But the vast majority of these attacks fail wherever adequate safeguards have been put in place//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">Certainly, none is even vaguely comparable to Pearl Harbor or 9/11, and most can be offset by commonsense prevention and mitigation efforts. A NEW APPROACH</span> //Defenders of the status quo// <span style="font-size: 4px;">might contend that</span> //chronic threat inflation and an overmilitarized foreign policy//<span style="font-size: 4px;">have not prevented the United States from preserving a high degree of safety and security and therefore are not pressing problems. Others might argue that although the world might not be dangerous now, it could quickly become so if the United States grows too sanguine about global risks and reduces its military strength. Both positions</span> //underestimate the costs and risks of the status quo and overestimate the need for the United States to rely on an aggressive military posture driven by outsized fears.// <span style="font-size: 4px;">Since the end of the Cold War, most improvements in U.S. security have not depended primarily on the country’s massive military, nor have they resulted from the constantly expanding definition of U.S. national security interests. The United States deserves praise for promoting greater international economic interdependence and open markets and, along with a host of international and regional organizations and private actors, more limited credit for improving global public health and assisting in the development of democratic governance. But although U.S. military strength has occasionally contributed to creating a conducive environment for positive change, those improvements were achieved mostly through the work of civilian agencies and nongovernmental actors in the private and nonprofit sectors. The record of an overgrown post–Cold War U.S. military is far more mixed. Although some U.S.-led military efforts, such as the NATO intervention in the Balkans, have contributed to safer regional environments, the U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have weakened regional and global security, leading to hundreds of thousands of casualties and refugee crises (according to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 45 percent of all refugees today are fleeing the violence provoked by those two wars). Indeed</span>//<span style="font-size: 4px;">,</span> overreactions to perceived security threats, mainly from terrorism, have done significant damage to U.S. interests and threaten to weaken the global norms and institutions that helped create and sustain the current era of peace and security//. <span style="font-size: 4px;">None of this is to suggest that the United States should stop playing a global role; rather, it should play a different role, one that emphasizes soft power over hard power and inexpensive diplomacy and development assistance over expensive military buildups. Indeed</span>, //the most lamentable cost of unceasing threat exaggeration and a focus on military force is that the main global challenges facing the United States today are poorly resourced and given far less attention than “sexier” problems, such as war and terrorism//. These include climate change, pandemic diseases, global economic instability, and transnational criminal networks -- //all of which could serve as catalysts to severe and direct challenges to U.S. security interests//. //But these concerns are less visceral than alleged threats from terrorism and rogue nuclear states.// They require long-term planning and occasionally painful solutions, and they are not constantly hyped by well-financed interest groups. As a result, they are given short shrift in national security discourse and policymaking.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Insert specific link(s)</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Their ontology ensures endless conflict and escalation - </span>
BLUE
Karsten <span style="font-size: 16px;">Friis,</span> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2k</span> [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” <span style="color: #001ee6;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>] KENTUCKY
BLUE
The problem with societal <span style="font-size: 16px;">securitization is one of representation</span>. It is rarely clear in advance who it is that speaks for a community. There is no system of representation as in a state. Since literately <span style="font-size: 16px;">anyone can stand up as representatives</span>, there is room for entrepreneurs. It is not surprising if we experience a struggle between different representatives and also their different representations of the society. What they do share, however, is a conviction that they are best at providing (a new) order. If they can do this convincingly, <span style="font-size: 16px;">they gain legitimacy</span>. What must be done is to make the uncertain certain and make the unknown an object of knowledge. To present a discernable Other is a way of doing this. The Other is represented as an Other -- as an unified single actor with a similar unquestionable set of core values (i.e. the capital “O”). They are objectified, made into an object of knowledge, by re-presentation of their identity and values. In other words, the representation of the Other is depoliticized in the sense that its inner qualities are treated as given and non-negotiable. In Jef Huysmans (1998:241) words, <span style="font-size: 16px;">there is both a need for a mediation of chaos as well as of threat. A mediation of chaos is more basic than a mediation of threat, as it implies making chaos into a meaningful order by a convincing representation of the Self and its surroundings. It is a mediation of “ontological security”, which means “...a strategy of managing the limits of reflexivity ... by fixing social relations into a symbolic and institutional order</span>” (Huysmans 1998:242). As he and others (like Hansen1998:240) <span style="font-size: 16px;">have pointed out, the importance of a threat construction for political identification, is often overstated. The mediation of chaos, of being the provider of order in genera</span>l, is just as important. This may imply naming an Other but not necessarily as a threat. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Such a </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">dichotomization implies a necessity to get rid of all the liminars</span>// (what Huysmans calls “strangers”). This is because they “...connote a <span style="font-size: 16px;">challenge to categorizing practices through the impossibility of being categorized”, and does not threaten the community, “...but the possibility of ordering itself</span>” (Huysmans 1998:241). They are a challenge to the entrepreneur by their very existence. They confuse the dichotomy of Self and Other and thereby the entrepreneur’s mediation of chaos. As mentioned, a liminar can for instance be people of mixed ethnical ancestry but also representations of competing world-pictures. As Eide (1998:76) notes: “//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Over and over again we see that the “liberals” within a group undergoing </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">a mobilisation process for </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">group </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">conflict </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">are the first ones to go”. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The liminars threaten the ontological order of the entrepreneur by challenging his representation of Self and Other and his mediation of chaos, which ultimately undermines the legitimacy of his policy. The liminars may be securitized by some sort of disciplination, from suppression of cultural symbols to ethnic cleansing and xpatriation. This is a threat to the ontological order of the entrepreneur, stemming from inside and thus repoliticizing the inside/outside dichotomy</span>. Therefore the liminar must disappear. It must be made into a Self, as several minority groups throughout the world have experienced, or it must be forced out of the territory. A liminar may also become an Other, as its connection to the Self is cut and their former common culture is renounced and made insignificant. In Anne Norton’s (1988:55) words, “The presence of difference in <span style="font-size: 16px;">the ambiguous other leads to its classification as wholly unlike and identifies it unqualifiedly with the archetypal other, denying the resemblance to the self.” hen the liminar is no longer an ontological danger</span> (chaos), but what Huysmans (1998:242) calls a mediation of “daily security”. This is not challenging the order or the system as such but has become a visible, clear-cut Other. In places like Bosnia, this naming and <span style="font-size: 16px;">replacement of an Other, has been regarded by the securitizing actors as the solution to the ontological problem they have posed</span>. Securitization was not considered a political move, in the sense that there were any choices. It was a necessity: <span style="font-size: 16px;">Securitization was a solution based on a depoliticized ontology. 10 This way </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the world-picture </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">of the securitizing actor is not only a representation but also </span>made into<span style="font-size: 16px;">reality. The mythical second-order language is made into first-order language, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">and its “innocent” reality is forced upon the world</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. To the entrepreneurs and other actors involved it has become a “natural” </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">necessity</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> with a need to make order, even if it implies </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">mak</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">ing the world match the map.</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Maybe that is why war against liminarsare so </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">often total;</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> it attempts a total expatriation or a total “solution” (like the Holocaust) and not only a victory on the battlefield. If the enemy is not even considered a legitimate Other, the door may be more open to a kind of violence that is way beyond any war conventions, any jus in bello. This way, securitizing is legitimized: The entrepreneur has succeeded both in launching his world-view and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">in prescribing the necessary measures</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> taken against it. This is possible by using the myths, by speaking on behalf of the natural and eternal, where </span>truth is never questioned.


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Reject the affirmative – we must kritik securitization </span>
BLUE
Mark<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> Neocleous</span>, Professor of Critique of Political Economy @ Brunel University (UK), editorial of <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.radicalphilosophy.com/|Radical Philosophy]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008 </span>(“Critique of Security.” PG(s). (185-186 ) KENTUCKY
The only way outof such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, isperhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether-to reject it as so ideological loaded in favour of the state that any real political thoughtother than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up. That is clearly something that can not be achieved within the limits of bourgeois thought and thus could not be achieved within the limits of the security intellectual. It is also something that constant iteration of the refrain ‘this is an insecure worlds’ and reiteration of one fear, anxiety and insecurity after another will also make it hard to do. But it is something that critique of security suggests we may have consider if we want a political way out of this impasse of security. This Impasse exists because security has now become so all-encompassing that it marginalizes all else, most notably the constructive conflicts, debates and discussions that animate political life. The constant promising of a mythical security as a political end-as the political end-constitutes a rejection of politics in any meaningful sense of the term. That is, as a mode of action in which differences can be articulated, in which the conflicts and struggles that arise from such differences can be fought for negotiated, in which people might come to believe that another world is possible-that they might transform the world and in turn be transformed. Security politics simply removes this; worse, it removes it while purportedly addressing it. In so doing it suppresses all issues of power and turns political questions into debates about the most efficient way to achieve ‘security’, despite the fact that we are never quite told-never could be told-what might count as having achieved it. Security politics is, in this sense, an anti-politics, dominating political discourse in much the same, manner as the security state tries to dominate human beings, reinforcing security fetishism and the monopolistic character of security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security on the political imagination. We therefore need to get beyond security politics, not add yet more ‘sectors’ to it in a way that simply expands the scope of the state and legitimizes state intervention in yet more and more areas of our lives. Simon Dalby reports a personal communication with Michael Williams, co-editor of the important text critical security studies, in which the latter asks: if you take away security, what do you put in the hole that’s left behind? But I’m inclined to agree with Dalby: maybe there is no hole. The mistake has been to think that there is a hole and that this hole needs to be filled with a new vision or revision of security in which it is re-mapped or civilized or gendered or humanized or expanded or whatever. All of these ultimately remain within the statist political imaginary, and consequently end up re-affirming the state as the terrain of modern politics, the grounds of security. The real task is not to fill the supposed hole with yet another vision of security, but to fight for an alternative political language which takes us beyond the narrow horizon of bourgeois security and which therefore does not constantly throw us into the arms of the state. That’s the point of critical politics: to develop a new political language more adequate to the kind of society we want. Thus while much of what I have said here has been of a negative order, part of the tradition of critical theory is that the negative may be as significant as the positive in setting thought on new paths. For if security really is the supreme concept of bourgeois society and the fundamental thematic of liberation, then to keep haring on about insecurity and to keep demanding ‘more security’ (while meekly hoping that this increased security doesn’t damage out liberty) is to blind ourselves to the possibility of building real alternatives to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. To situate ourselves against security politics would allow us to circumvent the debilitating effect achieved through the constant securitising of social and political issues, delitating in the sense that ‘security’ helps consolidate the power of the existing forms of social domination and justifies the short-circuiting of even the most democratic forms. It would also allow us to forge another kind of politics centered on a different conception of the good. We need a new way of thinking and talking about social being and politics that moves us beyond security. This would perhaps be emancipatory in the true sense of the word. What this might mean, precisely, must be open to debate. But it certainly requires recognizing that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognizing that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learn to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and ‘insecurities’ that come with being human; it requires accepting that ‘securitizing’ an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.


==Disads== 

===Politics=== 

====Grapevine==== 

=====Magnitsky===== 

======1NC====== 

Jackson Vanik repeal is inevitable – Obama’s PC is key to avoid Manitsky
JAMISON <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FIRESTONE</span>, Foreign Policy, JUNE 21,<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> 2012</span>, “Abandoning Sergei Magnitsky”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/06/21/abandoning_sergei_magnitsky?page=0,2]], KENTUCKY

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">This is the real argument in Congress </span>//right now: //<span style="font-size: 16px;">not whether to repeal </span>//Jackson-//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vanik, but </span>//what //<span style="font-size: 16px;">should </span>//replace it. Congress's answer is the Sergei //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Magnitsky</span>// Rule of Law Accountability Act. It's a simple law that says if an official uses his position to illegally arrest or harm a journalist or human rights activist, that person and his or her family will lose the privilege of traveling to the United States and keeping assets there. They will also be publicly named and shamed, and therefore they will effectively lose the ability to do business in the West. The law would act as a powerful disincentive for officials to persecute people who are fighting for a better Russia, just as Magnitsky was. However, President Barack <span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama</span>'s administration <span style="font-size: 16px;">has stalled the bill and tried to water it down at every opportunity</span>due to fears that it will upset its efforts to "reset" the U.S.-Russian relationship. Clinton's efforts <span style="font-size: 16px;">to portray</span>the<span style="font-size: 16px;"> repeal</span>of Jackson-Vanik <span style="font-size: 16px;">as a</span>simple <span style="font-size: 16px;">trade issue -- delinking</span>its repeal from the passage of a new bill protecting human rights -- <span style="font-size: 16px;">is</span> just <span style="font-size: 16px;">the latest administration(s) attempt to kill the Magnitsky bill.</span>



Insert Plan costs PC


Linkage tanks relations – spills over - multiple scenarios for conflict – key to prevent nationalism
Oliver <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Backes,</span> CSIS, Project Leader at Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program, Foreign Policy Research Institute, Education University of Pennsylvania, Jul 18, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>, “ Poking the Bear: The Counterproductive Linkage of PNTR and the Magnitsky Act”, [[http://csis.org/blog/poking-bear-counterproductive-linkage-pntr-and-magnitsky-act]], KENTUCKY

The inevitability of Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organization has brought the issues of U.S.-Russia trade relations and Russia’s human rights record to the forefront of the American political discourse in recent months. While <span style="font-size: 16px;">the extension of </span>Permanent Normal Trade Relations (<span style="font-size: 16px;">PNTR</span>) status to Russia is widely considered to have considerable economic benefits for the United States, the current debate <span style="font-size: 16px;">hinges on the political</span> and moral <span style="font-size: 16px;">issues </span>at stake. As it stands today, PNTR legislation remains inextricably linked to the Magnitsky Act, a bill which would sanction Russian officials for violations of human rights or corrupt practices. While the desire to emphasize Russia’s poor record on human rights, corruption, and the rule of law is understandable, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the linkage of the Magnitsky Act to PNTR legislation will create significant backlash from the Russian political regime and substantially harm U.S.-Russia relations. </span>//In anticipation of Russia’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) a bill (S.3285) has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would grant Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status to the Russian Federation. The lynchpin of this move towards more stable trade relations with Russia is the repeal of the Jackson-Vanik amendment. This amendment, which allows for the denial of PNTR status to countries that restrict the emigration rights of their populations, has formed the basis of thirty-eight years of limited trade relations with the former Soviet Union and current Russian Federation. However, with emigration no longer an issue in Russia and many lawmakers and members of the business community anticipating significant economic gains following the repeal, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the passage of PNTR legislation will almost certainly pave the way for more productive economic and political engagement between the White House and the Kremlin. Well, not exactly.</span> //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alone, the granting of PNTR status will undoubtedly improve relations</span>// between the United States and Russia; <span style="font-size: 16px;">however, PNTR legislation has been inexorably linked to the “Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012,”</span> versions of which have been introduced in both the House of Representatives and the Senate (S. 1039; H.R. 4405). This act gets its name from Mr. Magnitsky, a lawyer who died in prison following interrogation, torture, and the denial of proper medical care by Russian police as a result of his attempts to expose corruption. The act is seen by many in the U.S. and even in Russia as a fair and necessary replacement for the Jackson-Vanik amendment. Like Jackson-Vanik, the Magnitsky Act imposes sanctions based on allegations of corruption or gross violations of human rights. The bill mandates an investigation by the U.S. Department of State into such abuses within the Russian Federation, specifically targeting government officials or functionaries that participated in or concealed such acts. However, the act also empowers the U.S. Department of State to impose sanctions, in the form of visa restrictions and the seizure of assets, on Russian government officials. Furthermore, the authors of the bill have demanded that the “Magnitsky blacklist,” as it has come to be called, be published – though one version of the bill does allow for the creation of a more private list. <span style="font-size: 16px;">The rationale behind the linkage of these two pieces of legislation, for those that support it, is simple: Russia should not receive its carrots (PNTR) without an attendant smack with a stick (the Magnitsky Act). The intention is to show the Russian government that, despite liberalizing trade relations, the United States remains deadly serious about human rights and the rule of law and that the United States will not stand idly by while the inalienable rights of the Russian people are violated.</span> By publicly imposing sanctions on Russian government officials, the supporters of the Magnitsky Act hope to significantly curb corruption and promote institutional change, all while tacitly providing rhetorical support to the opposition movement through the condemnation of government officials. In fact, in a recent article in Foreign Policy entitled “Abandoning Sergei Magnitksy,” Jamison Firestone, a former law partner of Mr. Magnitsky, presented this very rationale. He called the sanctions a “powerful disincentive for officials to persecute people who are fighting for a better Russia,” while simultaneously condemning Secretary of State Clinton’s apparent decision to place the “faith” of the United States not in the opposition but in their oppressors. <span style="font-size: 16px;">This argument</span> – despite its moral sensibility – which is shared by Mr. Firestone and a host of Congressional leaders, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">remains inherently flawed, as it overestimates the potential gains of such a policy while ignoring the detrimental effect it will almost certainly have on the already fragile U.S.-Russia relationship</span>//. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Considering the passage of the Magnitsky Act solely through the frame of human rights, and thus ignoring the larger issue of U.S-Russia bilateral cooperation, results in a misunderstanding of the stakes involved</span>. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">A more in-depth analysis of the Russian political system demonstrates that, while PNTR will have a significant positive impact both economically and politically over the long-term, the Magnitsky Act will stand as a short-term policy failure, accomplishing none of its goals while antagonizing the Russian political elite</span>//. In fact, this analysis demonstrates that the Jackson-Vanik amendment does not need to be replaced at all, especially if the long-term goal of U.S. policy is liberal reform in the Russian Federation. //<span style="font-size: 16px;">The impact of the Magnitksy Act on the Russian political system and on U.S.-Russia relations will be based entirely on how it is perceived by the very officials it is likely to target</span>//. The Magnitsky Act stands primarily as a public condemnation of the corruption and lack of respect for human and civil rights endemic to the Russian system. However, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the simultaneously individualized and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">highly public nature of this condemnation</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, not to mention the attendant sanctions, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">ensure </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">that it will be perceived as an undue violation of Russian sovereignty and an excessive intrusion into Russian internal affairs</span>//. This is due to the fact that the core value guiding the political thinking of the Russian leadership today is the belief that the sovereignty of the state in the realm of its internal affairs is, or should be, absolute. This belief has been part and parcel of Putin’s vehement anti-Western, anti-U.S. rhetoric in which he has often characterized the United States as “imperialist” and described its liberal mandate based on respect for human rights in the international system as a convenient façade. In this context, where //<span style="font-size: 16px;">even purely vocal support for</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;"> a reform agenda by the United States is seen as an unacceptable violation of sovereignty, the MagnitskyAct is sure to incense the Russian leadership</span>//. Not <span style="font-size: 16px;">only will the government of the United States have publicly condemned the actions of the Russian government, it will have done so through </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the publication of</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> an itemized </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">list of violators</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">While Washington’s public criticisms of the Putin regime have been, to an extent, tolerated in recent years, the publication of the “Magnitsky blacklist” will – to a political system obsessed with sovereignty – be perceived as an unwarranted, excessive injection of an American political and moral agenda into the Russian political system</span>//. The list’s publication, which will take place approximately three to four months following the passage of the bill, will undoubtedly be accompanied by calls, both from the domestic opposition and Congressional leaders in the United States, for the ouster of listed officials and functionaries. In this sense, <span style="font-size: 16px;">the Kremlin will perceive the Magnitsky Act as an attempt on the part of the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Department of State, and the Obama administration to dictate to Russia on matters of sovereign internal domestic policy.[1] </span>In fact, the news of the Magnitsky Act’s introduction in both houses of Congress and of its linkage with the repeal of Jackson-Vanik has already provoked a series of responses from the Russian government that bear out that this perception will have a serious, detrimental impact on relations. In a May 3rd interview, Aleksandr Lukashevich, the official spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, characterized the Magnitsky Act as an attempt, on the part of the United States, “ to interfere with our internal affairs,” later noting that such a violation of the “generally-accepted principle of the presumption of innocence […] would not be left unanswered.” Konstantin <span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolgov, the Foreign Ministry’s human rights representative, echoed this sentiment, stating that such legislation constitutes “a gross interference in Russian internal affairs and, of course, it won’t have any positive effect on U.S.-Russian ties, to put it mildly.” In fact, there have been figures within the Russian government outlining an “asymmetrical response” to the Magnitsky legislation. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov explained that, “an asymmetrical response is also possible. A symmetrical response will follow, but another set of some other measures will be taken as well.” </span>It should be noted that some analysts have suggested that Russia’s bark may be worse than its eventual bite, stating that the most pragmatic approach for the Russian government would be to execute a minimal symmetrical response. However, recent developments in the Russian Duma suggest that the asymmetrical response has already begun and that it will be severe<span style="font-size: 16px;">. During the second week in July of this year, the Duma passed a bill imposing stringent, injurious restrictions on the operations of NGO’s in Russian financed from non-Russian sources and branding them as “foreign agents.” Directed primarily at organizations that promote human rights, the fight against corruption, and political reform, the NGO bill stands as an attempt to harass, silence, and disenfranchise independent critics of the regime in the name internal political sovereignty and freedom from outside (read: U.S.) influence.</span> As such, it is very likely that this legislation represents a preemptive consolidation of political and rhetorical authority by the government, the first asymmetrical response to the likely passage of the Magnitsky Act. The curtailment of rights contained within this asymmetrical response, coupled with the startling abuses outlined in the Magnitsky case, have caused many, Mr. Firestone included, to assert that the passage of the Magnitsky Act is purely “a question of human rights.” However, this view ignores the fact that //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the passage of the Magnitsky Act will have lasting implications for U.S.-Russia relations beyond the realm ofhuman rights, including</span>// possibly //<span style="font-size: 16px;">on issues as diverse as the conflict in Syria, the Iranian nuclear negotiations, missile defense in Europe, and many other crises and issues of international policy that will undoubtedly arise during the course of Putin’s third term as President. A stable, cooperative relationship between the United States and Russia, two permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, will be critical to the maintenance of order and relative peace within the international system, while the Magnitsky Act will only serve to reinforce Russian skepticism of the United States</span>// and its Western allies.[2] //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Given the significance of stable, harmonious relations between the United States and Russia to the maintenance of international peace and security</span>//, <span style="font-size: 16px;">it is astonishing that the advocates for the Magnitsky Act are so unconcerned with or ignorant of the potential impact of this legislation on the U.S.-Russia relationship. </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Such legislation, which will undoubtedly strain this already fragile relationship, will also provide fodder for Putin’s persistent suspicion of the United States at a time when the Obama administration should be assuaging his concerns, not confirming them</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">. A significantly more hostile bilateral relationship could potentially contribute to the prolongation of the Syrian conflict and would almost certainly paralyze the United Nations Security Council</span>. Despite all of their failings, the Russian leadership must be a partner for the United States, not an adversary. And while it is true that friendly states should point out one another’s mistakes, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the Magnitsky Act goes far beyond such a formal condemnation, antagonizing a potential partner through a perceived violation of sovereignty. Even if the Magnitsky Act were to lead to immediate and significant reform within the Russian political system and human rights, which is unlikely given the high probably of a strong authoritarian asymmetrical response to its passage, such gains could be offset by the damage done to U.S.-Russian bilateral cooperation.</span>//

**AND – Relations solve the case and** warming
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CFR Task Force 2006</span>[Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, American presidents and policymakers have believed that the interests of the United States are served by engagement with Russia.</span> This Task Force, too, began its review of U.S. policy—and concludes it—convinced of the extraordinary importance of getting U.S. relations with Russia right<span style="font-size: 16px;">. U.S.-Russian cooperation can help the United States to handle some of the most difficult challenges it faces: terrorism, the prliferation of weapons of mass destruction, tight energy markets, climate change, the drug trade, infectious diseases, and human trafficking. These problems are more manageable when the United States has Russia on its side rather than aligned against it. Good relations between Moscow and Washington also bolster one of the most promising international realities of our time—the near absence of security rivalries among the major powers.</span> That the world’s leading states deal with each other in a spirit of accommodation is a great asset for American policy, and <span style="font-size: 16px;">the United States will be in a better position to protect that arrangement if relations with Russia are on a positive track.</span>

**Warming is real and anthro – causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Morgan 9</span> [Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As horrifying as the scenario of human extinction by sudden, fast-burning nuclear fire may seem, the one consolation is that this future can be avoided within a relatively short period of time if responsible world leaders change Cold War thinking to move away from aggressive wars over natural resources and towards the eventual dismantlement of most if not all nuclear weapons. On the other hand, another scenario of human extinction by fire is one that may not so easily be reversed within a short period of time because it is not a fast-burning fire; rather, a slow burning fire is gradually heating up the planet as industrial civilization progresses and develops globally. This gradual process and course is long-lasting; thus it cannot easily be changed, even if responsible world leaders change their thinking about ‘‘progress’’ and industrial development based on the burning of fossil fuels. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The way</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that global </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">warming will impact humanity </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the future </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">has </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">often </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">been depicted through the analogy of the proverbial frog in a pot of water who does not realize that the temperature of the water is gradually rising. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Instead of trying to escape, the frog tries to adjust to the gradual temperature change; finally, the heat of the water sneaks up on it until it is debilitated. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Though it finally realizes its predicament and attempts to escape, it is too late; its feeble attempt is to no avail— and the frog dies.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Whether this fable can actually be applied to frogs in heated water or not is irrelevant; </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">it </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">still </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">serves as a comparable scenario of how the slow burning fire of global warming may eventually lead to a runaway condition and takehumanity by surprise. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Unfortunately, by the time the politicians finally all agree with the scientific consensus that global warming is indeed human caused, its development could be too advanced to arrest; the poor frog has become too weak and enfeebled to get himself out of hot water. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">IPCC)</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> was established in 1988 by the WorldMeteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environmental Programme to ‘‘assess on a comprehensive, objective, open and transparent basis the scientific, technical and socio-economic information relevant to understanding the scientific basis of risk of humaninduced climate change, its potential impacts and options for adaptation and mitigation.’’</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[16]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Since then, it </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">has given assessments</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and reports every six or seven years. Thus far, it has given four assessments.</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">13 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">With all prior assessments came attacks fromsome parts of the scientific community, especially by industry scientists, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> attempt to </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">prove</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that the theory had no basis in planetary history and present-day reality; nevertheless, as more andmore research continually provided concrete and empirical evidence to confirm the </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">global warming</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> hypothesis, that it </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> indeed </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">human-caused</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, mostly </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">due to the burning of fossil fuels</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the scientific consensus grew stronger that human induced global warming is verifiable</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As a matter of fact, according to Bill McKibben </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[17]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 12 years of ‘‘impressive scientific research’’ strongly confirms the 1995 report ‘‘that humans had grown so large in numbers and especially in appetite for energy that they were now damaging the most basic of the earth’s systems—the balance between incoming and outgoing solar energy’’; ‘‘. . . their findings have essentially been complementary to the 1995 report – a constant strengthening of the simple basic truth that humans were burning too much fossil fuel.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[17]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Indeed, 12 years later, the 2007 report not only confirms global warming, with a stronger scientific consensus that the slow burn is ‘‘very likely’’ human caused, but it also finds that the ‘‘amount of carbon in the atmosphere is now increasing at a faster rate even than before’’ and the temperature increases would be ‘‘considerably higher than they have been so far were it not for the blanket of soot and other pollution that is temporarily helping to cool the planet.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[17]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Furthermore, almost ‘‘everything frozen on earth is melting. Heavy rainfalls are becoming more common since the air is warmer and therefore holds more water than cold air, and ‘cold days, cold nights and frost have become less frequent, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[17]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Unless drastic action is taken soon, the average global temperature is predicted to rise about 5 degrees this century, but it could rise as much as 8 degrees. As has already been evidenced in recent years, the rise in global temperature is melting the Arctic sheets. This runaway polar melting will inflict great damage upon coastal areas, which could be much greater than what has been previously forecasted. However, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">what is missing in the IPCC report</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as dire as it may seem, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">is sufficient emphasis on the less likely but still plausible </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">worst case scenarios</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, which could prove to have the most </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">devastating</span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">, catastrophicconsequences</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> for the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">long-term future of human civilization</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In other words, the IPCC report places too much emphasis on a linear progression that does not take sufficient account of the dynamics of systems theory, which leads to a fundamentally different premise regarding the relationship between industrial civilization and nature. As a matter of fact, as early as the 1950s, Hannah Arendt </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[18] </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">observed this radical shift of emphasis in the human-nature relationship, which starkly contrasts with previous times because the very distinction between nature and man as ‘‘Homo faber’’ has become blurred, as man no longer merely takes from nature what is needed for fabrication; instead, he now acts into nature to augment and transform natural processes, which are then directed into the evolution of human civilization itself such that we become a part of the very processes that we make. The more human civilization becomes an integral part of this dynamic system, the more difficult it becomes to extricate ourselves from it. As Arendt pointed out, this dynamism is dangerous because of its unpredictability. Acting into nature to transform natural processes brings about an . . . endless new change of happenings whose eventual outcome the actor is entirely incapable of knowing or controlling beforehand. The moment we started natural processes of our own - and the splitting of the atom is precisely such a man-made natural process -we not only increased our power over nature, or became more aggressive in our dealings with the given forces of the earth, but for the first time have taken nature into the human world as such and obliterated the defensive boundaries between natural elements and the human artifice by which all previous civilizations were hedged in’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[18]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. So, in as much as we act into nature, we carry our own unpredictability into our world; thus, Nature can no longer be thought of as having absolute or iron-clad laws. We no longer know what the laws of nature are because the unpredictability of Nature increases in proportion to the degree by which industrial civilization injects its own processes into it; through selfcreated, dynamic, transformative processes, we carry human unpredictability into the future with a precarious recklessness that may indeed end in human catastrophe or extinction, for elemental forces that we have yet to understand may be unleashed upon us by the very environment that we experiment with. Nature may yet have her revenge and the last word, as the Earth and its delicate ecosystems, environment, and atmosphere reach a tipping point, which could turn out to be a point of no return. This is exactly the conclusion reached by the scientist, inventor, and author, James Lovelock. The creator of the wellknown yet controversial Gaia Theory, Lovelock has recently written that it may be already too late for humanity to change course since climate centers around the world, . . . which are the equivalent of the pathology lab of a hospital, have reported the Earth’s physical condition, and the climate specialists see it as seriously ill, and soon to pass into a morbid fever that may last as long as 100,000 years. I have to tell you, as members of the Earth’s family and an intimate part of it, that you and especially civilisation are in grave danger. It was ill luck that we started polluting at a time when the sun is too hot for comfort. We have given Gaia a fever and soon her condition will worsen to a state like a coma. She has been there before and recovered, but it took more than 100,000 years. We are responsible and will suffer the consequences: as the century progresses, the temperature will rise 8 degrees centigrade in temperate regions and 5 degrees in the tropics. Much of the tropical land mass will become scrub and desert, and will no longer serve for regulation; this adds to the 40 per cent of the Earth’s surface we have depleted to feed ourselves. . . . Curiously, aerosol pollution of the northern hemisphere reduces global warming by reflecting sunlight back to space. This ‘global dimming’ is transient and could disappear in a few days like the smoke that it is, leaving us fully exposed to the heat of the global greenhouse. We are in a fool’s climate, accidentally kept cool by smoke, and before this century is over billions of us will die and the few breeding pairs of people that survive will be in the Arctic where the climate remains tolerable. </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[19] </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover, Lovelock states that the task of trying to correct our course is hopelessly impossible, for we are not in charge. It is foolish and arrogant to think that we can regulate the atmosphere, oceans and land surface in order to maintain the conditions right for life. It is as impossible as trying to regulate your own temperature and the composition of your blood, for those with ‘‘failing kidneys know the never-ending daily difficulty of adjusting water, salt and protein intake. The technological fix of dialysis helps, but is no replacement for living healthy kidneys’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[19]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Lovelock concludes his analysis on the fate of human civilization and Gaia by saying that we will do ‘‘our best to survive, but sadly I cannot see the United States or the emerging economies of China and India cutting back in time, and they are the main source of emissions. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">The </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">worst</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> will happen and survivors will have to adapt to a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">hell of a climate’’</span>//<span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[19]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Lovelock’s forecast for climate change is based on a systems dynamics analysis of the interaction between humancreated processes and natural processes. It is a multidimensional model that appropriately reflects the dynamism of industrial civilization responsible for climate change</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For one thing, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">it takes into account positive feedback loops that lead to ‘‘</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">runaway’’</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> conditions. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This mode of analysis is consistent with recent research on how ecosystems suddenly disappear. A 2001 article in Nature, based on a scientific study by an international consortium, reported that </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">changes in ecosystems are not just gradual but are often </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">sudden and catastrophic</span>//<span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[20]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Thus, a scientific consensus is emerging (after repeated studies of ecological change) that ‘‘stressed ecosystems, given the right nudge, are capable of slipping rapidly from a seemingly steady state to something entirely different,’’ according to Stephen Carpenter, a limnologist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (who is also a co-author of the report). Carpenter continues, ‘‘We realize that there is a common pattern we’re seeing in ecosystems around the world, . . . Gradual changes in vulnerability accumulate and eventually you get a shock to the system - a flood or a drought - and, boom, you’re over into another regime. It becomes a self-sustaining collapse.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[20]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. If ecosystems are in fact mini-models of the system of the Earth, as Lovelock maintains, then we can expect the same kind of behavior. As Jonathon Foley, a UW-Madison climatologist and another co-author of the Nature report, puts it, ‘‘</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Nature isn’t linear. Sometimes you can push on a system and push on a system and, finally, you have the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">straw that breaks the camel’s back</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">.’’ Also, once the ‘‘flip’’ occurs</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as Foley maintains, then </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">the catastrophic change is ‘‘</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">irreversible</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[20]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. When we expand this analysis of ecosystems to the Earth itself, it’s frightening. What could be the final push on a stressed system that could ‘‘break the camel’s back?’’ Recently, another factor has been discovered in some areas of the arctic regions, which will surely compound the problem of global ‘‘heating’’ (as Lovelock calls it) in unpredictable and perhaps catastrophic ways. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">This disturbing development</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, also reported in Nature, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">concerns the permafrost that has locked up who knows how many </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">tons</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> of the greenhouse gasses, methane and carbon dioxide. Scientists are particularly worried about permafrost because, as it thaws, it releases these gases into the atmosphere, thus, contributing and accelerating global heating. It is a </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">vicious positive feedback loop</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> that compounds the prognosis of global warming in ways that could very well prove to be the </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">tipping point of no return</span>//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Seth Borenstein of the Associated Press describes this disturbing positive feedback loop of permafrost greenhouse gasses, as when warming ‘‘. already under way thaws permafrost, soil that has been continuously frozen for thousands of years. Thawed permafrost releases methane and carbon dioxide. Those gases reach the atmosphere and help trap heat on Earth in the greenhouse effect. The trapped heat thaws more permafrost and so on.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[21]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The significance and severity of this problem cannot be understated since scientists have discovered that ‘‘the amount of carbon trapped in this type of permafrost called ‘‘yedoma’’ is much more prevalent than originally thought and may be 100 times [my emphasis] the amount of carbon released into the air each year by the burning of fossil fuels’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[21]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Of course, it won’t come out all at once, at least by time as we commonly reckon it, but in terms of geological time, the ‘‘several decades’’ that scientists say it will probably take to come out can just as well be considered ‘‘all at once.’’ Surely, within the next 100 years, much of the world we live in will be quite hot and may be unlivable, as Lovelock has predicted. Professor Ted Schuur, a professor of ecosystem ecology at the University of Florida and co-author of the study that appeared in Science, describes it as a ‘‘slow motion time bomb.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[21]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Permafrost under lakes will be released as methane while that which is under dry ground will be released as carbon dioxide. Scientists aren’t sure which is worse. Whereas methane is a much more powerful agent to trap heat, it only lasts for about 10 years before it dissipates into carbon dioxide or other chemicals. The less powerful heat-trapping agent, carbon dioxide, lasts for 100 years </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[21]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Both of the greenhouse gasses present in permafrost represent a global dilemma and challenge that compounds the effects of global warming and runaway climate change. The scary thing about it, as one researcher put it, is that there are ‘‘lots of mechanisms that tend to be self-perpetuating and relatively few that tend to shut it off’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[21]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">14 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In an accompanying AP article, Katey Walters of the University of Alaska at Fairbanks describes the effects as ‘‘huge’’ and, unless we have a ‘‘major cooling,’’ - unstoppable </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[22]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Also, there’s so much more that has not even been discovered yet, she writes: ‘‘It’s coming out a lot and there’s a lot more to come out.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[22]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 4. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Is it the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> end of human civilization and possible </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">extinction of humankind</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? What Jonathon </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Schell wrote concerning death by</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the fire of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">nuclear holocaust also applies to</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the slow burning death of </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">global warming</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Once we learn that a holocaust might lead to extinction, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">we have no right to gamble</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, because if we lose, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">the game will be over</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">, and </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">neither we nor anyone else will ever get another chance</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Therefore, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">although</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, scientifically speaking, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">there is all the difference in the world between the mere possibility that a holocaust will bring about extinction and the certainty of it, </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">morally they are the same</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and we have no choice but to address the issue of nuclear weapons as though we knew for a certainty that their use would put an end to our species </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[23]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">15 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">When we consider that beyond the horror of nuclear war, another horror is set into motion to interact with the subsequent nuclear winter to produce a poisonous and super heated planet, the chances of human survival seem even smaller. Who knows, even if some small remnant does manage to survive, what the poisonous environmental conditions would have on human evolution in the future. A remnant of mutated, sub-human creatures might survive such harsh conditions, but for all purposes, human civilization has been destroyed, and the question concerning human extinction becomes moot. Thus, we have no other choice but to consider the finality of it all, as Schell does: ‘‘Death lies at the core of each person’s private existence, but part of death’s meaning is to be found in the fact that it occurs in a biological and social world that survives.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[23]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">16 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But what if the world itself were to perish, Schell asks. Would not it bring about a sort of ‘‘second death’’ – the death of the species – a possibility that the vast majority of the human race is in denial about? Talbot writes in the review of Schell’s book that it is not only the ‘‘death of the species, not just of the earth’s population on doomsday, but of countless unborn generations. They would be spared literal death but would nonetheless be victims . . .’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[23]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. That is the ‘‘second death’’ of humanity – the horrifying, unthinkable prospect that there are no prospects – that there will be no future. In the second chapter of Schell’s book, he writes that since we have not made a positive decision to exterminate ourselves but instead have ‘‘chosen to live on the edge of extinction, periodically lunging toward the abyss only to draw back at the last second, our situation is one of uncertainty and nervous insecurity rather than of absolute hopelessness.’’ </span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">[23]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="color: #000066; font-size: 10.6667px;">17 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In other words, the fate of the Earth and its inhabitants has not yet been determined. Yet time is not on our side. Will we relinquish the fire and our use of it to dominate the Earth and each other, or will we continue to gamble with our future at this game of Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival?</span>

**AND – Russian** nationalism causes nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Israelyan 98</span> Victor was a Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist. The Washington Quarterly, Winter)

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The</span>// first and by far //<span style="font-size: 16px;">most dangerous possibility</span>// is what I call the power scenario. Supporters of this option would, in the name of a "<span style="font-size: 16px;">united and undivided Russia</span>," radically change domestic and foreign policies. Many would seek to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">revive a dictatorship</span>// and take urgent military steps to mobilize the people against the outside "enemy." Such steps would include //<span style="font-size: 16px;">Russia's denunciation of</span>//the commitment to //<span style="font-size: 16px;">n</span>//o-//<span style="font-size: 16px;">f</span>//irst-//<span style="font-size: 16px;">u</span>//se of nuclear weapons; suspension of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) I and refusal to ratify both START II and the Chemical Weapons Convention; denunciation of the Biological Weapons Convention; and reinstatement of <span style="font-size: 16px;">a full-scale armed force</span>, including the acquisition of additional intercontinental ballistic missiles with multiple warheads, as well as medium- and short-range missiles such as the SS-20. Some of these measures will demand substantial financing, whereas others, such as the denunciation and refusal to ratify arms control treaties, would, according to proponents, save money by alleviating the obligations of those agreements. In this scenario, Russia's military planners would shift Western countries from the category of strategic partners to the category of countries representing a threat to national security. This //<span style="font-size: 16px;">will revive </span>////<span style="font-size: 16px;">the strategy of nuclear deterrence</span>// -- and indeed, <span style="font-size: 16px;">realizing </span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">its unfavorable odds against</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> the expanded NATO, Russia will place new emphasis on the first-use of nuclear weapons</span>, a trend that is underway already. The power scenario envisages a hard-line policy toward the CIS countries, and in such circumstances the problem of the Russian diaspora in those countries would be greatly magnified. Moscow would use all the means at its disposal, including economic sanctions and political ultimatums, to ensure the rights of ethnic Russians in CIS countries as well as to have an influence on other issues. Of those means, even the use of direct military force in places like the Baltics cannot be ruled out. Some will object that this scenario is implausible because no potential dictator exists in Russia who could carry out this strategy. I am not so sure. Some Duma members -- such as Victor Antipov, Sergei Baburin, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and Albert Makashov, who are leading politicians in ultranationalistic parties and fractions in the parliament -- are ready to follow this path to save a "united Russia." Baburin's "Anti-NATO" deputy group boasts a membership of more than 240 Duma members. One cannot help but remember that when Weimar Germany was isolated, exhausted, and humiliated as a result of World War I and the Versailles Treaty, Adolf Hitler took it upon himself to "save" his country. It took the former corporal only a few years to plunge the world into a second world war that cost humanity more than 50 million lives. I do not believe that Russia has the economic strength to implement such a scenario successfully, but then again, Germany's economic situation in the 1920s was hardly that strong either. Thus, I am afraid that <span style="font-size: 16px;">economics will not deter the power scenario's</span> would-be authors from attempting it. Baburin, for example, warned that any political leader who would "dare to encroach upon Russia" would be decisively repulsed by the Russian Federation "by all measures on heaven and earth up to the use of nuclear weapons." n10 In autumn 1996 Oleg Grynevsky, Russian ambassador to Sweden and former Soviet arms control negotiator, while saying that NATO expansion increases //<span style="font-size: 16px;">the risk of nuclear war,</span>// reminded his Western listeners that Russia has enough missiles to destroy both the United States and Europe. n11 Former Russian minister of defense Igor Rodionov warned several times that Russia's vast nuclear arsenal could //<span style="font-size: 16px;">become uncontrollable.</span>// In this context, one should keep in mind that, //<span style="font-size: 16px;">despite dramatically reduced nuclear arsenals -- and tensions -- Russia and the United States remain poised to launch their missiles in minutes</span>//. I cannot but agree with Anatol Lieven, who wrote, "It may be, therefore, that with all the new Russian order's many problems and weaknesses, it will for a long time be able to stumble on, until we all fall down together." n12