=1AC – Plan Text= 
====Plan: the United States federal government should dredge, make infrastructure and wharf improvements, and construct CVN nuclear propulsion plant maintenance facilities at Naval Station Mayport for the purpose of homeporting a CVN.==== 

=1AC – Crisis Management= 
Contention 1 is Crisis Management
==== ==== 
====Terrorist attack at the Hampton Roads port in Norfolk, Virginia is likely – technology can’t predict it==== 
Kimberlin 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Joanne, The Virginian-Pilot, “Millions of containers. Now, find the 'Boom Box.'”, February 5, </span>**[[http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box|**http://hamptonroads.com/2012/02/millions-containers-now-find-boom-box**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

They look harmless enough. And, so far, they have been – just
AND
data, hoping to stop a boom box before it ever gets here.

====Detrimental event is __inevitable__ because of the structure of Norfolk’s port==== 
Lessig 10**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Hugh Lessig joined the Daily Press in 1997 as the Hampton city reporter. He spent eight years in Richmond covering state politics and the administrations of three Virginia governors, “Senior Navy commander says Mayport move is "not idle talk.", January 12, </span>**[[http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html|**http://weblogs.dailypress.com/news/local/military/blog/2010/01/senior_navy_commander_says_may_1.html**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Adm. John Harvey, head of Fleet Forces Command, recalled his second day
AND
carrier — and its associated jobs and economic effects — moving to Mayport.

====Norfolk is the __most vulnerable port__ in the country – dispersing forces to Mayport breaks up assets and ensures continued force strength==== 
Crenshaw 8**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Ander, Representative in Florida, “The Case For Two East Coast Homeports Is "Overwhelming And Simply Irrefutable"”, December 7, </span>**[[http://votesmart.org/public-statement/443948/the-case-for-two-east-coast-homeports-is-overwhelming-and-simply-irrefutable|**http://votesmart.org/public-statement/443948/the-case-for-two-east-coast-homeports-is-overwhelming-and-simply-irrefutable**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Recently, the Navy announced a decision to homeport a nuclear carrier at Naval Station
AND
have. Those are staggering differences, and further affirm the Navy's decision.

====New legislation guarantees commitment to 11 carriers – it’s only a question of effectiveness==== 
Associated Press 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (“US to keep 11 aircraft carriers to show sea power”, January 22, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/01/21/us-to-keep-11-aircraft-carriers-to-show-sea-power/)</span>**

ABOARD THE USS ENTERPRISE – Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told sailors aboard the country's oldest
AND
to maintain power projection both in the Pacific and in the Middle East."

====__Strategic dispersal__ key – catastrophic events at Norfolk will leave the US __without__ an aircraft carrier force because it’s the only location in the US capable of CVN refueling==== 
O’Rourke 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, </span>**[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf|**http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Strategic dispersal: The strategic dispersal of surface ships, especially vital strategic assets such
AND
to aircraft carriers and associated maintenance and repair infrastructure supporting those crucial assets....
==== ==== 
====Homeporting solves strategic dispersal – it’s critical to operational readiness and overall Navy strength==== 
O’Rourke 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier (CVN) Homeporting at Mayport: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, June 14, </span>**[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf|**http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

The FEIS identified Alternative 4 as the Navy’s preferred alternative. The FEIS, like
AND
fundamental to the Navy’s mission and obligation to the Commander in Chief.24
==== ==== 
====US leadership is on the brink of collapse – the military is undergoing a fundamental transition to a __naval force__ – none of your generic heg defense applies==== 
Kaplan 7**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, in Washington, D.C, “America’s Elegant Decline”, November, The Atlantic, </span>**[[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true|**http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2007/11/america-8217-s-elegant-decline/6344/?single_page=true**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**
==== ==== 
Are we prepared to fight these wars? Our Army and Marine Corps together constitute
AND
Navy is a big, dangerous fact to which our elites appear blind.
==== ==== 
====Aircraft carriers are the __quintessential symbol__ of American power – without a shift in strategy, Navy’s power projection capabilities will __inevitably decline__==== 
Martinez et. al. 9**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Mel Martinez (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) are members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) is a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and Reps. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL) and Jack Kingston (R-GA) are members of the House Appropriations Committee. “Strategic Dispersal is a Priority”, January 19, </span>**[[http://votesmart.org/public-statement/403642/strategic-dispersal-is-a-priority|**http://votesmart.org/public-statement/403642/strategic-dispersal-is-a-priority**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Strategic dispersal has been key to the tactical positioning of our naval assets for over
AND
the new president and Congress to help the Navy meet this important objective.

====Failure to shore up the carrier fleet risks multiple scenarios for great power war==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Brookes 8</span> Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the Heritage Foundation, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, 2k8 (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html)

After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers from 12 to 11 last year,
AND
high-tech warfare world, quantity has a quality all its own.

====Hegemony solves nuclear war and extinction – even if multipolarity is inevitable, US power is key to peaceful transition.==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Barnett 11</span> (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]])

Events in Libya are a further reminder for Americans that we stand at a crossroads
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

====5 internal links to naval power – only aircraft carriers solve==== 
US Navy 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, </span>**[[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4|**http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Description Aircraft carriers are the centerpiece of America<span style="font-family: 'Menlo Regular';">�</span>s Naval forces. On any
AND
slated to be delivered in 2015 to replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).

====Perception alone solves==== 
Rubel 11**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. “The Future of Aircraft Carriers”, Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, </span>**[[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers|**http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> EG)</span>**

Geopolitical Chess Piece. It has been the habit of American presidents and their advisers
AND
Soviet navy) the potential for a role/risk disconnect is magnified.

====Naval power deters nuclear conflict==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Asbjornsen 12</span> (Rear Adm. Douglas J. Asbjornsen, USN, deputy commander, Navy Region Northwest, is the senior Navy representative for Spokane Navy Week. “Guest opinion: Strong Navy still essential”, May 12, [[http://www.spokesman.com/stories/2012/may/12/guest-opinion-strong-navy-still-essential/]] EG)

America needs a strong Navy now more than ever. America’s Navy is our nation’s
AND
in the world: the men and women of the United States Navy.

====It’s an independent impact filter – naval power de-escalates all conflict and lack of operational readiness causes great power wars==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Cropsey 10</span> – is a Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute. Previously, he served as Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy during both the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations. (Seth, September 1, “Ebb Tide” [[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7235]])

Only one statement can be made with certainty about the future of the U.
AND
conflicts. Its absence or abject weakness would be an invitation to calamity.

====Absolute decline means the US will become uncooperative and desperate-hegemonic wars will ensue==== 
Goldstein 7**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682)</span>**

Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for
AND
provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19

=1AC – Venezuela= 
Contention 2 is Venezuela

====Chavez will die soon – the terrorist group FARC is gaining power in Venezuela and civil war will ensue==== 
Investor’s Business Daily 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (“Oil King Hugo Chavez Will Leave Venezuela In Chaos”, February 28, </span>**[[http://news.investors.com/article/602627/201202281854/hugo-chavez-exit-in-venezuela-may-be-chaotic.htm?p=full|**http://news.investors.com/article/602627/201202281854/hugo-chavez-exit-in-venezuela-may-be-chaotic.htm?p=full**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>**

Americas: Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chavez may be on his last legs, as news
AND
war as the rank and file defy orders to fire on street protestors.

====<span style="font-size: 16px;">CVNs in Mayport are the lynchpin of the Fourth Fleet</span>==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Elsibai 8</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Nadine, Bloomberg, April 24, “U.S. Navy Reviving Fleet for Latin America, Caribbean (Update1)”, </span>[[http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=a094x7Qa8Qeo]]<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>

The U.S. Navy plans to re-establish its Fourth Fleet,
AND
and the 5,000 jobs lost when the aircraft carrier departed the basin

====Successful Fourth Fleet requires homeporting a CVN==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Dixon 8</span> (Drew, The Jacksonville Times, “New Mayport fleet, commander uplifting for base”, July 12, [[http://jacksonville.com/tu-online/stories/071208/nes_302439784.shtml]])

The reinstatement of a long-dormant fleet and a new commander of the Navy's
AND
in the last three years and some on multiple occasions," Stevenson said.

====Fourth Fleet aircraft carrier strength is key to maintain stability in Venezuela==== 
Santana 8**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Humberto, International Committee of the Fourth International, “US Navy resurrects Fourth Fleet to police Latin America”, May 7, </span>**[[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2008/may2008/navy-m07.shtml|**http://www.wsws.org/articles/2008/may2008/navy-m07.shtml**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>**

Washington announced at the end of last month that it is resurrecting the long-
AND
Seal contingents, provides a floating base for US interventions throughout the continent.

Scenario 1 – Civil War

====Electoral tensions will escalate to civil war – stabilizing force is key==== 
International Crisis Group 12**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (“Dangerous Uncertainty Ahead of Venezuela Elections”, June 26, </span>**[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/publication-type/media-releases/2012/latam/dangerous-uncertainty-ahead-of-venezuela-elections.aspx?utm_source=venezuelaemail&utm_medium=mr&utm_campaign=mremail|**http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/publication-type/media-releases/2012/latam/dangerous-uncertainty-ahead-of-venezuela-elections.aspx?utm_source=venezuelaemail&utm_medium=mr&utm_campaign=mremail**]]**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>**

The president’s cancer overshadows electoral preparations, however. Diagnosed more than a year ago
AND
. Either scenario could spark opposition protests and escalating confrontation with government loyalists.

====Unchecked civil war causes extinction==== 
====<span style="font-size: 16px;">Manwaring 5</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>==== 
==== ==== 
President Chávez also understands that the process leading to state failure is the most dangerous
AND
and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity. 65

Scenario 2 is the FARC

====The FARC is the backbone of the black market nuclear trade – spreads to nuclear terror and leads to an attack on the US==== 
<span class="CiteChar">MacDonald 8</span> (Brad MacDonald, staff writer for the Trumpet, “Is Chávez Helping Terrorists Go Nuclear?” 5/2008, http://www.thetrumpet.com/?q=5036.0.104.0)

That seizure marked the first time radioactive material has been linked to FARC. It
AND
be able to conjure images of what the consequences for America could be!

====Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Ayson 10</span>(Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by
AND
for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

=1AC – Extras= 
Contention 3 is We Are Topical
====Definitions that focus on transportation infrastructure investment as a function of economic productivity are politically biased and intellectually lazy – it’s much harder for economists to measure military impact so they leave it out of their studies. However, the most logical definition is public-owned natural monopolies – aka military investments; other interpretations simply devolve this topic to a States CP every round, leading us to the same round every time.==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Gramlich 94</span>, PhD from Yale, former member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and former Dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at University of Michigan (Edward M., “Infrastructure Investment: A Review Essay”, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 32, No. 3. (Sep., 1994), pp. 1176-1196. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0022-0515%28199409%2932%3A3%3C1176%3AIIARE%3E2.0.CO%3B2-C)

Nowhere has this speculative bubble¶ of economic research been more clearly¶ illustrated than
AND
goals, or changes in them. No wonder there are empirical controversies.

====Federal Transportation Infrastructure includes defense facilities – military is the only fed key warrant==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Poole 1996</span> (Robert W. Former member of the President’s Commission on Privatization, “Defederalizing Transportation Infrastructure, [[http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf]])

This paper has sought to demonstrate that federal taxes and trust funds are unnecessary and
AND
of these purposes requires any tax on ¶ general highway or airport users.

=1NC- Fiscal Cliff= 
====Fiscal cliff will be resolved in the status quo, economy will rebound==== 
Pannozzo, 10/16/12
Andrea, John Thomas Financial, PR Web, “John Thomas Financial Chief Economist, Mike Norman, says Economy Improving, but Fiscal Cliff Remains a Concern”, [[http://www.prweb.com/releases/prweb10017821.htm]], BJM

John Thomas Financial Chief Economist, [[http://www.johnthomasfinancial.com/about/leadership|Mike Norman]], said he sees continuing signs of
AND
That’s why he believes a deal will be reached before the New Year.

====<Insert Plan Kills Capital>==== 

====Obama has the influence to prevail in fiscal cliff negotiations now==== 
-A2: PC Bad/Doesn’t Matter (Klein)
Sprung, 9/21(Andrew Sprung is a political commentator & media consultant. He is the CEO of Sprung PR and hold a PhD from the University of Rochestor, “Ezra Klein's unconvincing theory that Obama misunderstands (or misrepresents) "change," http://xpostfactoid.blogspot.com/2012/09/ezra-kleins-unconvincing-theory-that.html)

Obama also used the bully pulpit at crucial points, if not to rally public
AND
, or control health-care choices that women should make for themselves.
==== ==== 
====Going over the fiscal cliff causes a second great depression==== 
Morici 8/7Peter, PhD, is a "recognized expert on economic policy and international economics." He is a Professor of International Business at the R.H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland. "Fix fiscal cliff now or face next Great Depression," 2012, [[http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/08/07/fix-fiscal-cliff-now-or-face-next-great-depression/]]

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;">President Obama and Republicans are engaging in dangerous brinksmanship. Putting off a political solution to </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the looming “fiscal cliff”</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> until after the election </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">risks a second Great Depression.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;">¶ Without a compromise by January, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">$400 billion in </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;">mandatory </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">spending cuts and </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;">more than</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> $100 billion in tax increases will immediately go into effect. With our economy only growing </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 13.3333px;">by only</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> $300 billion annually, such a shock would thrust it into a prolonged contraction.</span>

====<don’t read if economy impact in 1AC> Goes nuclear.==== 
<span class="CiteChar">Mead, 09</span> – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]])

If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance and prospects of India and China,
AND
the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

====Sequestration would destroy our nuclear triad’s capabilities—specifically the bomber==== 
Maginnis 11 (Robert Maginnis is a retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television, ‘CATASTROPHIC’ DEFENSE CUTS SEEN AS TIPPING POINT OF U.S. MILITARY SUPREMACY, 10/20/11, Human Events)
Our nuclear deterrence could diminish. Cuts would undermine our nuclear triad—our ability
AND
fact create a tipping point for America as the world’s leading military power.
==== ==== 
====Nuclear deterrence stops global nuclear war==== 
Caves 10<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John P, Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National </span>Defense University, January, Strategic Forum, No. 252, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” da 11/16, mat)

Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent as described above would have
AND
scale far more catastrophic than what nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.
----
*