[[toc]]
=Note= 
Advait is the 2N, Simon is the 2A

For more Aff stuff, see [[2012-2013 - Atholton (MD) - Isabel Slavinsky & Simon Zhu|Simon's wiki]]
For more Neg stuff, see [[2012-2013 - Reservoir (MD) - Sophie Bell & Advait Ramanan|Advait's wiki]]

More specific stuff will be posted soon.

=Affirmative= 
==Lakeland Octas== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Atholton would like to advocate the following discussion of the topic to affirm an interrogation of power relations that questions the optimistic acceptance of substantially increasing transportation infrastructure investment by the United States </span>

==Lakeland Prelims== 
Harvard Aff

OR

Harvard aff with
Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in climate resilient airport transportation infrastructure.

OR

Harvard plan text with
Ports (agriculture) advantage and enviro leadership
==Harvard== 
Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in climate resilient transportation infrastructure.

Advantages: COIN, Enviro Leadership

=Negative= 
==T== 
==CP== 
===MDA CP=== 
===States CP=== 
===Visa CP=== 
==DA== 
===CBC Politics DA=== 
==K== 
==Strategies== 
===Harvard JV=== 
**Round 2 vs. Loyola HM (Bikes) -- Dhruv Seghal**
2NR - Case Turns

**Round 3 vs. Niles North DN (Port Security) -- Jorge Sosa**
2NR - MDA CP

**Round 6 vs. Agape Leaders Prep PY (Mass Transit - Neolib) -- Anthony Coe**
2NR - States CP

**Octas vs. George Washington SM (Freight Rail) -- Christian Torre, Anna Roth, Chris Paddock***
2NR - Visas CP

**Quarters vs. Brooklyn Tech MB (Mass Transit - Race) -- W. Tommye, Skylar Buono, Jonathan Hu**
2NR - States CP, CBC Politics DA

===Lakeland=== 
**Round 1 vs. Bronx Science TM (Climate Adaptation) - Pankhuri Singal**
2NR - Microbubbles CP, Decentralization DA

**Round 4 vs. Lexington KL (Guam Road Network) - Patrick Githens**
2NR - T in

**Round 5 vs. Bishop Guertin CS (Gas Tax) - Fabrizio**
2NR - Race K