[[toc]]
=Narrative Race K= 

=Fem K= 

=Cap K= 

=Anthro= 
**Their focus on liberation requires re-affirmation of a distinction between “human” and “animal” – re-entrenches specieism**
**Kim**, UC Irvine political science professor, **2009**
(Claire, “Slaying the Beast: Reflections on Race, Culture, and Species”, http://aapf.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/05/kalfou.pdf)
Dyson gives a<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> perfunctory </span>nod ... our experience, and our actions.


We must deny the urge to align ourselves with their human-centric politics – it is an all or nothing question.
**Dell’Aversano ‘10** [Carmen, “the love whose name cannot be spoken: queering the human-animal bond” journal for critical animal studies, volume III issue 1 and 2, 2010]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A real―oxymoronic community of ... to have moved beyond ourselves. </span>

Vote neg to reject the 1ac —maintaining the human-non-human binary dooms them to endless cycles of subordination and violence- this is also the site of protest that we should focus on
**Best ’07**, Associate Professor, Departments of Humanities and Philosophy University of Texas, El Paso [Steven, Charles Patterson, The Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust New York: Lantern Books, 2002, 280 pp]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While a welcome advance over ... baggage official Chistianithy left behind.</span>



=Speaking for Others= 
Describing others inevitably constitutes speaking in place of them.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alcoff 95</span>
Linda, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, Linda Martin-Alcoff, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So the question arises about ...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">of speaking about others</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[[http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html#footnote8|8]]</span>

The affirmative is a perfect erasure of the other; they craft an image of the other in terms of their own systems of knowledge. This image inevitably overwhelms the other and denies them any sort of individual subjectivity.
Linda <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alcoff</span>, Professor of Philosophy, Women's Studies and Political Science, Director of Women’s Studies, Syracuse University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1995</span>, “The Problem of Speaking for Others,” http://www.alcoff.com/content/speaothers.html.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is partly the case because ... reality of our experiential lives.9</span>

The erasure of the other constitutes a form of spiritual genocide which represents the destruction of human dignity – it outweighs the aff.
Patricia <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams</span>, Associate Professor of Law, The City University of New York Law School at Queens College, September <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1987</span> University of Miami Law Review, 42 U. Miami L. Rev. 127
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> There are certain societies that ...</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> little humanity we have left.</span></span>

Discourses of top-down reform that speak for others are trapped in an oppressive hierarchy of power. Don’t cast your ballot for the affirmative project of speaking for others. Instead use it to sap the power from their discourse to allow the others to speak for themselves.
Michel <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foucault and</span> Gilles <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze</span>, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1972</span> Libcom.org, “Intellectuals and Power: A Conversation Between Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze,” http://libcom.org/library/intellectuals-power-a-conversation-between-michel-foucault-and-gilles-deleuze
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">FOUCAULT: It seems to me that the... most obviously seen as power?...</span>

=Ableism= 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The underside of privileging the idea of mobility is the exclusion of those who do not move in “normal” ways – the aff contributes to the systematic exclusion of disabled people, othering them and excluding them from normal citizenship </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cresswell</span>prof geography @ U London <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2k6</span> (Tim, “The Right to Mobility: The Production of Mobility in the Courtroom” Antipode vol 38 no 4)
A number of geographers have ... process becomes doubly powerful.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative – we have an obligation to create space for citizens with disabilities to participate as equals in political and social life</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé 03</span>Michael Bérubé, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State Univerecsity, 2003[“Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506]]]
It is striking, nonetheless, that ... the good of all of us.

=Virilio= 
plan seeks to accelerate the economic system which leads to its automation and thusly the end of politics
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Virilio, 2005</span>**<span style="font-size: 14pt;"> – Professor </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 14pt;">of </span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, the information bomb, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 130-132) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thanks to the patient establishment ...in the ether of telecommunications.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">The automation of war will lead to the accidental war </span>
Paul <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio</span>, director of the Ecole Speciale d’Architecture in Paris, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000</span>, A landscape of events P. 93

In this dire perspective, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">compulsory .. peace fly through our fingers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">The alt is to reject the affirmative's destruction of politics to reinvent a political relationship to speed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Paul __Virilioand__Chris __Dercon__2001</span><span style="font-family: Ottawa,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Virilio Live</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">:selected inter</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">views</span><span style="font-family: Ottawa,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">""SPEED-SPACE Interview with Chris Dercon" ", Sage Publications.</span>

<span style="font-family: Dutch801RmBT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It’s important to return to ...a logic which poses problems.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Competitive Economics</span>= 

The aff buys into the traditional economics notion that sees the global economy as a zero-sum market leads to unsustainability

<span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">Tonn 7</span> – * Program Leader of ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor Political Science at University of Tennessee, Director of Urban and Regional Planning Program at University of Tennessee, Senior Researcher at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Ph.D., Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University; M.S., City and Regional Planning, Graduate School of Design and Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University; B.S., Civil Engineering, Stanford University [Bruce E. Tonn, Futures, “Futures sustainability”, available 4/13/07, Volume 39, Issue 9, November 2007, Pages 1097-1116 Science Direct]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second major economic policy ... other system could be better!</span>


The alt is to reject the affirmative as an abandonment of belief in competitive economics – this opens the door to new ways of thinking

Adrian <span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">Johnston</span>, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, University of New Mexico, 200<span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">4</span>, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society, Volume 9 // Issue 3


Perhaps <span class="CardUpSize-LightChar">the absence of ...</span> emanating from this same material.

=<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Security</span>= 

Our understanding of Rogue States comes from security paradigm that uses hyperbolic rhetoric to generate fear, especially in the context of transportation infrastructure

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tuathail 2k</span> (Gearoid O Tuathail, Department of Geography at Virginia Tech. “The Postmodern Geopolitical Condition: States, Statecraft, and Security at the Millennium” 2000. [[http://www.geo.hunter.cuny.edu/courses/geog334/articles/postmodern_condition.pdf]])



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>modern geopolitical imaginationis ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Y2K, has increased dramatically. </span>



Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)



The only way out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of ...</span>enough to return the gift<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>