[[toc]]
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">for questions & anything else contact debateclass23@yahoo.com</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ff0000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative- </span>= 
===<span style="text-decoration: none;">Plan Text</span>=== 
====The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its short sea shipping subsidies in the United States==== 


===Contention one- Inherency=== 
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">No finding for sss now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Bondareff 7-24</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">12-[“Congressional failure to enact maritime legislation and the fiscal cliff” Blank Rome LLP; Joan M. Bondareff; was chief counsel and acting deputy administrator of the Maritime Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation. She was also former majority counsel for the House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries. Ms. Bondareff recently served on the Obama Transition Team for the Department of Transportation handling maritime related issues. She worked on the OPA 90 legislation, and also helped develop the Natural Resource Damage Assessment regulations when she was the assistant general counsel for Ocean Services at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; USA; July 24 2012 [[http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=fc200bbe-9bcc-402f-8c38-7f349271ebd4|[[http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=fc200bbe-9bcc-402f-8c38-7f349271ebd4]jt|http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=fc200bbe-9bcc-402f-8c38-7f349271ebd4]]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">]jt</span>

Freight tonnage will increase dramatically by 2035 – status quo cannot meet the need
<span style="font-size: 17px;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 4-5]</span>






====Contention two economy==== 

===Contention two- Economy=== 
===Scenario one is growth-=== 
===We provide three internal links-=== 
===1.Marine shipping key to the economy – but infrastructure investment key first=== 
<span style="font-size: 17px;">LaHood, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">[Ray LaHood, US Secretary of the Department of Transportation and Chair of the Committee on the Marine Transportation System, The Coast Guard Proceedings of the Marine Safety and Security Council, “The Marine Transportation System,” Summer 2011, www.uscg.mil/proceedings, p. 4]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">The U.S. </span>Marine ...<span class="TitleChar">the increased traffic</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span>
===2.Transportation efficiency key to the economy – demand is outpacing capacity now=== 
<span style="font-size: 17px;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 11]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">The </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman','serif';">efficiency of </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">the....</span>than capacity
===3.SSS key to economy- minimal infrastructure costs, increased employment, and fuel efficiency=== 
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Kennedy 08-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">J.D. 2008, Tulane University School of Law; B.A. 2003, University of Chicago. (Sean D., “Short Sea Shipping in the United States - The New Marine Highways”, 2008 Maritime Law Journal, 2008)//PN</span>
<span style="font-size: 9px;">Maritime transportation ...</span>U.S. market<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">. </span>
===That recovery is fragile now – the risk of catastrophic economic failure is high=== 
**<span style="font-size: 15px;">Robert Kuttner</span>** **11-28-12** **<span style="font-size: 11px;">http://pnhp.org/blog/2012/11/28/health-care-and-education-are-key-to-economic-recovery/</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> Robert Kuttner (pronounced </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English|/]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English|ˈ]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English|k]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'ms mincho'; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English|ʌ]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'times new roman','serif'; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English|tnər/]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">) is an </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> journalist and writer. Kuttner is the co-founder and current co-editor of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_American_Prospect|The American Prospect]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, which was created in 1990 as "an authoritative magazine of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberalism|liberal]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> ideas," according to its mission statement. He was a twenty year columnist for </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_Week|Business Week]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;"> and continues to write columns in </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Boston_Globe|The Boston Globe]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Kuttner#cite_note-bio-1|[1]]]
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Today’s prolonged..., especially in manufacturing.</span>

===Other nations can’t pick up the slack for the US economy- global investors will freak=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">David </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Berman, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">09 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(staff writer, Financial Post, October 30, 2007. Online. Lexis/Nexis. May 4, 2009)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">If the U.S. economy ....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">had originally believed. </span>
===U.S. Economy key to global economy=== 
<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 17px;">Kohn</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">6/26/</span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 17px;">08</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> (Donald L., PhD – Econ “Global Economic Integration and Decoupling” http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/kohn20080626a.htm) MFR – *this article is ASSUMPTIVE of decoupling*</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">Global Integration through...</span>international trade<span class="TitleChar">.</span>
===Economic collapse ensures nuclear recourse wars=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Broward ‘09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">((Member of Triond) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Now its time to... </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">be a world nuclear war. </span>

===<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions</span>=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;"> – </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215Less intuitive is how periods of… considered ancillary to those views.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">Less intuitive is how periods of ... paragraph of this chapter.</span>
===Current and historical data prove economic growth decreases the risk of war=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Griswold, 05</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Daniel, director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at Cato, “Peace on earth? Try free trade among men”, __http://www.freetrade.org/node/282__)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">As one little-noticed ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">and human capital</span>__
===Scenario Two is China=== 
===Growing unemployment will force congress to bash china=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Ramirez 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> (Carlos D. Ramirez, Associate Professor of Economics, Department of Economics, George Mason University, “The Political Economy of “Currency Manipulation” Bashing” March 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">[[http://econ.la.psu.edu/papers/psu-tsinghua/Carlos%20Ramirez%20-%20The%20Political%20Economy%20of%20'Currency%20Manipulation'%20Bashing.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">, RS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Why are congressmen ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">voted on this legislation. </span>
===Waterway infrastructure improvements are key to boost exports now - establishes trade leadership=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Independent Record, 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> (January 12, 2012, Independent Records, HelenaAir- Montana Daily News, “Efficient waterways key to exports,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">[[http://m.helenair.com/mobile/article_622a021e-3ced-11e1-9a56-001871e3ce6c.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">A major infrastructure project...makes it more efficient than rail or road. </span>

===We isolate two impact scenarios-=== 

===SSS leads to new job growth=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">[U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 12-13]</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Expanded use of </span>Marine ...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> throughout the economy.</span>
===Unemployment causes backlash against free trade and China bashing=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">JIMENEZ ‘12</span> - <span style="font-size: 11px;">Master's student at Georgetown University; degree in political science and international relations from CIDE, Mexico City. (“Protectionism Makes Comeback As Recovery Stalls”, http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/01/protectionism-makes-comeback-as-recovery-stalls/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">As a result, </span>protectionism <span class="TitleChar">could </span>gain weight<span style="font-size: 11px;">in the upcoming months</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">and while it may be vilified by conventional wisdom which rightfully points out the benefits of free </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">trade, there is a “human face” ...is its very authoritarianism</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">?</span>
===China bashing causes war with China=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">REUTERS ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (“Analysis: Obama to challenge China on trade as election nears”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-usa-china-trade-idUSTRE79C72820111013)</span>

<span class="TitleChar">Analysts cautioned ..</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9px;">that could be mutually harmful." </span>
===US-China war causes extinction=== 
<span style="font-size: 17px;">Cheong</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">2000</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">THE high-intensity ...</span>of civilization.
===Lack of trade leadership causes protectionism and mercantilism=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Linicome 6/12/12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(Scott Lincicome, an international trade attorney with White & Case, LLP. He has extensive experience in trade litigation before with the United States Department of Commerce, the US International Trade Commission (ITC), served as a senior trade policy adviser for Senator John McCain’s Presidential campaign, former researcher for the CATO Institute, “Is Missing American Trade Leadership Beginning to Bear Protectionist Fruit?” June 12, 2012, http://lincicome.blogspot.com/2012/06/is-missing-american-trade-leadership.html, RS) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Over the past few years,...</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">has faded away</span>//<span class="TitleChar">.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">(Mercantilism is the lessening of economic dependence)</span>**
===Mercantilism destroys globalization and increases international conflict and ensures war=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">Posen 9 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">(Adam Posen, Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">In the postwar period, </span>US power<span style="font-size: 11px;">and prestige, beyond the nation's military might</span><span class="TitleChar">, </span>have<span class="TitleChar"> been </span>based<span style="font-size: 11px;">largely</span>on American<span style="font-size: 11px;">relative</span>economic <span class="TitleChar">size and </span>success__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">. </span>__

<span style="font-size: 12px;">These facts enabled ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">following priority measures.</span>
===Protectionism snowballs and causes nuclear war=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Panzner 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing <span style="font-size: 11px;">calls for </span>curbs ....__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">beginning</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">s of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">a new world war.</span>__





====**Contention three- Hazmat Security**==== 

===Contention three- HAZMAT Security=== 
===We provide two internal links-=== 
===1.Marine highways ensure safe transfer of hazardous materials=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 33]</span>

Use of<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America’s</span>Marine... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">manmade disasters.</span>

===2.Hazmat transfer safer on water than land=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 34-5]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The transportation of hazardous ...and risk are included.88</span>
===Water-way transportation secures hazmat materials and minimizes the risk of nuclear terror=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Department of transportation 04</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Oversees federal highway, air, railroad, and maritime and other **transportation** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">administration functions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> http://www.eri-safety.com/Documents/2427fs.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Every day</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, ...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">weapons of mass destruction</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. </span>
===Terrorists can make a bomb; they only need 10 kilograms of hazmat material!=== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NAE 2012</span>**

<span style="font-size: 6pt; vertical-align: baseline;">Founded in 1964, the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) is a private, independent, nonprofit institution that provides engineering leadership in service to the nation. The mission of the National Academy of Engineering is to advance the well-being of the nation by promoting a vibrant engineering profession and by marshalling the expertise and insights of eminent engineers to provide independent advice to the federal government on matters involving engineering and technology. The NAE has more than 2,000 peer-elected members and foreign associates, senior professionals in business, academia, and government who are among the world’s most accomplished engineers. They provide the leadership and expertise for numerous projects focused on the relationships between engineering, technology, and the quality of life. The NAE is a member of the National Academies, which includes the NAE, the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the Institute of Medicine (IOM), and the National Research Council (NRC)— which serves as the principal operating arm of the academies. The NAE operates under the same congressional act of incorporation that established the National Academy of Sciences, signed in 1863 by President Lincoln. Under this charter the NAE is directed "whenever called upon by any department or agency of the government, to investigate, examine, experiment, and report upon any subject of science or art." Engineering program activities of the National Academies cut across the many operational units of the four organizations constituting the Academies, although most projects are executed by units of the NRC.The NAE’s independent assets and operating funds are held in the National Academy of Engineering Fund (NAEF), a tax-exempt corporation under section 501 (c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code. It was created to support the mission and goals of the NAE and its tax identification number is 23-7284092.In addition to offices in Washington, DC, the Academy maintains meeting facilities in Irvine, Calif., and Woods Hole, Mass. http://www.engineeringchallenges.org/cms/8996/9134.aspx</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">From the beginnings ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">uranium, to build a bomb</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>
===Nuclear terror ensures escalation, retaliation and extinction=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ayson</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld) http://www.the3nr.com/2010/07/14/excellent-new-terrorism-impact-card/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear .... chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


===<span style="text-decoration: none;">Solvency – 1AC</span>=== 

===Contention Solvency-=== 

===Federal action key – too many obstacles to private action alone –=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MARAD ‘11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration], America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 69-70]</span>

Without <span class="TitleChar">strong </span>leadership ...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">services in a significant manner.</span>
=== === 
===Companies are already interested – Plan makes it cost competitive and increases profit margins=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kennedy, 8</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Sean D. Kennedy, J.D. 2008, Tulane University School of Law, Short Sea Shipping in the United States - The New Marine Highways, 33 Tul. Mar. L. J. 203, Winter, 2008]</span>

Maritime transportation <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">overland sector." n72</span>
===Cargo has stressed US transportation networks- ports overloaded, roads congested, environment hurt – Only SSS solves=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perakis and Denisis, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS, Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, MARIT. POL. MGMT., DECEMBER 2008, VOL. 35, NO. 6, 591–614]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">US international trade,...</span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> environmental benefits</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Tech and logistical infrastructure already exist to fix time concerns=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perakis and Denisis, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS, Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, MARIT. POL. MGMT., DECEMBER 2008, VOL. 35, NO. 6, 591–614]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="TitleChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">recent </span>developments ....__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the success of SSS.</span>__

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

=2NR's=