For aff cites contact: sydneygriggsz@gmail.com
For neg cites contact: jrmartin707@gmail.com
If we read something against you that isn't up on here, feel free to shoot us an email, because we probably just forgot.
If you abbreviate "hegemony" as "hege", you can just leave now.

[[toc]]
=**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AFF:</span>**= 
==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Gender-Neutral 1AC</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V2.0: NFL Nationals</span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 28px;">All the same as quals but without the 3rd contention - the Nhanenge card in Contention 3 was moved to Contention 2.</span>
===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V1.0: NFL Quals</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 120%;">Contention 1 is the Transportation Infrastructure AKA The Topic:</span>**

**Along with the economic boom following the Great Depression, came a car culture where the travel patterns of men were privileged due to the role they had within their family. The 1990’s presented a pivotal shift in social roles for all genders. The model in which transportation infrastructure is designed is still one that privileges masculinity. As Queirós and Marques da Costa explain in 2012, the transportation sector is dominated by male, androcentric policies. Despite the statistics proving feminine travel patterns are more dependent on public transit, the transit systems are still focused on masculine travel patterns, and infrastructure policy is decided and engineered along those lines. That makes transportation policymaking a critical locus point for discussing gender issues.**

**Status quo transportation infrastructure privileges masculine norms and misrepresent what new studies are calling “the mobility of care” which makes public transportation more challenging for persons in traditionally feminine roles. The gender bias exists in contrast with the actual data of ridership patterns. In 2012, Jaffe reports that transit systems are designed for the traditional male travel patterns of the nine-to-five commute, while ignoring the burden of “care work” that falls to feminine roles. Transit systems fail to accommodate the bulk of their users, who are using them primarily for child and family care. Our transportation policy should be reoriented towards a more gender-equitable form of infrastructure.**

**Bauhardt explains in 2004 that this bias does not only exist in the physical transit systems, but in the actual infrastructure planning process. The re-appropriation of time and space as commodities to be dominated through transportation systems is rooted in masculine ideology – we must accelerate and overcome, never satisfied to work with nature, only against it. This technical thought is pervasive in our transportation planning, converting time, space, and the idea of transport into economic resources rather than social categories. Our feminist perspective dictates a shift from a quantitative analysis of transport to a qualitative perspective that focuses on social and quality of life effects.**

**Karen Warren and Duane Cady have written several articles on this topic which many of us have probably read but they make very good arguments about how the masculine ideology is at the root cause of things like proliferation, environmental destruction, domestic violence, and war. They say, “… this is because of a patriarchal preoccupation with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically [masculine] assumptions.” “Patriarchal frameworks legitimate impaired thinking which is manifested in behaviors which, will make life on earth impossible.” But even though we can, we don’t need to win some grand scale impact to outweigh whatever disadvantage the negative might present. It’s common sense and common ethics that drives our planning process.**

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment by recognizing current transportation infrastructure as gendered and reconfiguring public transportation infrastructure in the United States to be gender neutral.**

**<span style="font-size: 120%;">Contention 2 is Solvency:</span>**

**It’s not just posturing – post-plan, there will be significant changes to actual transportation infrastructure in the United States.**
**Jaffe 2012,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Public Transportation's Hidden Gender Imbalance, Feb 1, 2012, Eric Jaffe is a contributing writer to The Atlantic Cities and the author of The King's Best Highway: The Lost History of the Boston Post Road, the Route That Made America. He lives in New York., http://www.theatlanticcities.com/commute/2012/02/public-transportations-hidden-gender-imbalance/1107/</span>

Take, for instance, a recent transportation data set from Spain…
Systems can also conduct what the researchers call "gender audits" to evaluate their ability to meet the transport needs of female riders.

**Studies show that status quo transportation infrastructure ignores a very important type of mobility – “the mobility of care.” We must recognize these in order for public transport to be equitable to all gender roles.**
**Stanford 2012**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stanford studies on public transportation, Public Transportation: Rethinking Concepts and Theories, http://genderedinnovations.stanford.edu/case-studies/transportation.html#tabs-2</span>

Researchers examining public transportation often categorize trips according to purpose in order to better understand existing transportation patterns and to better plan for infrastructure changes…
Level access from platforms to trains (Transport for London, 2007).

**We’re not just talking about America here – our transportation policies, inequality and all, are modeled globally – the plan spills over internationally.**
**Springs 7**-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transportation Planning and Operations Manager at Transportation Management Association of Chester County, Graduate Transportation Research Assistant @ Clemson, MA in City and Regional Planning @ Clemson, BS in Sociology @ Charleston, [Mary Alice, “Inequity in transportation: The Problem with Auto Hegemony,” http://chrestomathy.cofc.edu/documents/vol6/springs.pdf, DKP]</span>

While problems with auto hegemony have only recently surfaced in wealthy nations, poor nations are evidently experiencing immediate drawbacks…
However, if the United States can set a better example for establishing a more diversified repertoire of transportation choices, then hopefully developing countries, such as China, will follow this example rather than continuing down the more conventional but hazardous path toward auto hegemony.


**This has worked in the past – the success of incorporating feminist perspectives into their transportation infrastructure in order to make it gender neutral is proven. The incorporation of a gender perspective in transportation sector in Sweden started within the overall process of designing a policy for a sustainable transportation system. This set the stage for gender mainstreaming within the sector by presenting differences in travel patterns between masculine and feminine roles in society and noting the lack of feminist perspective in the decision-making process. A clear connection is made between the goals of gender equality and sustainable development, especially regarding equal representation and participation in societal decision-making.**

**The exclusion of feminist perspectives due to patriarchal domination is the root cause of racism, sexism, and all forms of oppression. Perception of sexuality is the initial split – all forms of segregation and domination are part and parcel.**
**ASFS 87** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alliance To Stop First Strike, Anti-militarism and Anti-Patriarchy activist organization, Nonviolent Civil Disobedience Handbook, Activism: Peace: NVCD: Discrimination, http://www.activism.net/peace/nvcdh/discrimination.shtml)</span>

Part of struggling against nuclear weapons involves understanding the ways in which the oppression of particular groups of people supports militarism, makes the institutionalized system of war and violence appear "natural" and "inevitable."…
When people act from a sense of informed pride in themselves and their own traditions, they will be more effective in all struggles for justice and peace.

**Even if we disagree on the roots of violence, we can still combine multiple struggles to spur activism against oppression**
**Butler 4**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature @ UC Berkeley (Judith, Precarious Life: the Powers of Mourning and Violence, page 48)</span>

We could have several engaged intellectual debates going on at the same time and find ourselves joined in the fight against violence, without having to agree on many epistemological issues…
Indeed, an international coalition of feminist activists and thinkers " a coalition that affirms the thinking of activists and the activism of thinkers and refuses to put them into distinctive categories that deny the actual complexity of the lives in question" will have to accept the array of sometimes incommensurable epistemological and political beliefs and modes and means of agency that bring us into activism.

**Some of you may be asking why we’re reading a plan in the first place. After all, this is St. Vincent’s, isn’t it? But we’ve learned. Engaging the political is key – individual radicalism and anti-politics fail to account for the rest of society, cede power to unaccountable elites, and abandon a meaningful framework of discussion.**
**Chandler 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Professor David Chandler, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the Center for Democracy, University of Westminster, editor of over a dozen books and contributor to over sixty peer-reviewed journals, research focus in the human subject in the political and social sphere. “Building Global Civil Society 'From Below'?”, Millennium, Vol. 33, No. 4, p. 339)</span>

The struggle for individual ethical and political autonomy, the claim for the recognition of separate 'political spaces' and for the 'incommunicability' of political causes, demonstrates the limits of the radical claims for the normative project of global civil society 'from below'…
If the only alternative to the political 'game' is to threaten to 'take our ball home' the anti-politics of rejectionism, the powers that be can sleep peacefully in their beds.

**<span style="font-size: 120%;">Contention 3 is Nationals Needs Us:</span>**

**I’ll be honest, I love debate. We love debate. It’s an amazing activity; there is no doubt about that. Debate creates a space where young minds can discuss issues that matter to them and develop skills that are critical for their future. I know it is weird to think about it but WE are the future of this country and it is important that we use debate as something that will further assist that development. However, we shouldn’t let out admiration for the activity blind us. There are problems with the debate community. It is traditionally and still today exclusive of the feminine perspective. Our discussions are regrettably and repeatedly centered around a race to the quickest extinction impact and the most hegemonic control and domination. We as a community have allowed the proliferation of prolif impacts to overtake our real focus as policymakers and students: that is, to**

**Debate has seen amazing things over the last sixty years, which have closely aligned with what was going on in society. A once young debater, Brian McBride introduced the first critical argument to policy debate, which signified that the activity was opening up to different kinds of education.**

**Not long ago the community started to realize that impacts no longer needed to be based exclusively off of nuclear war, and that there was an important discussion that has to be had about the different kinds of oppression going on.**

**We have reached a point in policy debate where we are more liberal and willing to learn compared to anytime before this, however, there is a discussion that is still being ignored and pushed out of debate.**

**The discussion of gender is one that seems to be not welcome in debate. This is partially because of the masculine assumptions and norms of debate but that needs to change.**

**In debate the feminist perspective is violently forced out of the debate space. Don’t get us wrong, there is much discussion of different kinds of oppression but it now seems like we are fetishizing over the newest Zizek card while still ignoring a prevalent type of oppression.**

**You can check the wiki - we are the only team currently reading a feminism aff.**

**We honestly care about what we are talking about, but our voice needs to be heard. We are not here so we can qualify to NFL Nationals because we want a big trophy. It is more than that. We need our voices to be heard and NFL Nationals is our last chance. Even the tournament site says that it is the most prestigious tournament where everything is posted and debaters around the world are watching and listening to what is going on. What happens at Nationals is truly national – it’s the only chance we get to spread the word on a grand scale. NFLs is specifically the right tournament to break down these mindsets. Let’s face it, a historically conservative lay tournament in Alabama isn’t going to welcome the gender discussion with open arms but that’s all the more reason to bring it there and break down the doors.**

**We firmly believe that an aff ballot is not only an endorsement of our affirmative, but a door which you will open for us and debaters around the country to discuss their perspectives and what matters to them without being criticized and pushed out of the activity.**

**Discussion of feminism is key to the reinforcing the individual because in a world where we let exclusively policies dominate debate, the individual becomes disempowered because they are excluded. Our affirmative is key for the development of a new social science.**
**Nhanenge 7** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Master of Arts at the development studies @ the University of South Africa (Jytte “Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the concerns of women,, poor people and nature into development” http://uir.unisa.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10500/570/dissertation.pdf?sequence=1)</span>

Consequently, also social scientists apply the scientific characteristics of objectivity, value-freedom, rationality and quantifiability to social life…
'Hue result is a dominant and violent ideology masked as science. (Reitzes l993: 32, 34, 42-45).


==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Insecurity 1AC</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V2.0 - Stanford/Berkeley</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">I thought I was flying to a debate tournament, but when I got here and heard the other teams start to speak, I realized I was still in the airport after all.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We begin with a discussion of the nature of airport security. The logic of preemption is a logic of racial categorization – to secure our world against the pervasive threat of terrorism we must identify the individuals who pose the greatest threat. Airport security is no longer a question of “Who is holding the bomb?” but “Which turban is hiding the bomb?”, all the while eschewing the essential question of “Is there a bomb at all?” Through mass media and state propaganda we have been assured that terrorism is inevitable in any future where we don’t conform to the static notions of identity and don’t take out our laptops to put them in a separate bin for the scanner. Through our desperate desire to predict the worst possible outcome we unconsciously adhere to accepted stereotypes of racist discrimination. We hear this in the words of an American Sikh traveler:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The most recent [incident] was at LAX airport in April 2011. I was at security for the gate that leads to American Airlines and I was returning home to New York City [via] JFK airport. I was wearing a turban with Western-style clothing, like I always do. A TSA agent asked me to step aside for additional screening. She searched through all of my bags, unpacking everything. I asked her why I was being singled out, and she said it was because I was wearing a head covering. She said it would be the same if I were wearing a baseball [cap]. I told her my turban was religious and that I don’t take it off in public. She responded rudely and said “Some people call their baseball [cap] a religion.” Then, she put on gloves and started grabbing at my turban from all angles. It really felt like a violation. She was being so rough to [the] point where she almost took my turban off. She didn’t tell me I could have done it myself and she hardly warned me when she was going to start.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(26-year-old Sikh female teacher, Crown Heights, Brooklyn – “In Our Own Words: Narratives of South Asian New Yorkers Affected by Racial and Religious Profiling”, a joint project by the NYC Profiling Collaborative, DRUM, The Sikh Coalition, United Sikhs, South Asian Youth Action, Coney Island Avenue Project, Council of Peoples Organization, South Asian Americans Leading Together, March 2012, p. 21, [[http://www.saalt.org/filestore/Reports/In%20Our%20Own%20Words%20Web%20FINAL.pdf]]) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The modern airport is an intrinsically securitized space – the physical and behavioral security systems exemplify the political climate of pervasive security. But this is not the defensive, observational security of Foucault’s panopticon. Danger is preemptively accounted for, not reactively addressed. The identity of the terrorist threat is constructed and applied to whomsoever the apparatus sees fit. Each passenger is reduced to a series of numbers on the screen of the biometric analyst and profiled into the rigid and racialized categories of the behavioral detection officer. The political rhetoric of inevitability and catastrophism has required the fluid adaptation of airport security to the omnipresent possibility of an explosive break in the system. The move from prevention to prediction has required the shift from the all-seeing panopticon to the all-knowing ban-opticon.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adey 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter Adey, School of Physical and Geographical Sciences, Research Institute for Law, Politics and Justice Keele University, Keele ST5 5BG, England, Received 5 January 2008; in revised form 1 September 2008; published online 23 February 2009, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Vol. 27, pages 274-295, “Facing airport security: affect, biopolitics, and the preemptive securitisation of the mobile body,”)</span>

What do the processes of airport security feel like?...
As Amoore writes, ``What Van Munster (2004, page 142) has called a `discourse on eventualities' has allowed the war on terror to be fought preemptively'' (Amoore, 2006, page 340).

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Through the administration of preemptive security, the state claims a unique ontological relationship to future events, as sovereign power of force is magnified by the exclusive access to knowledge of inevitable threats. The logic of inevitability that motivates precautionary action against catastrophic threats allows the state to invoke any form of power to prevent perceived disaster scenarios. The attempt to expunge unpredictability from the social sphere is an effort to freeze society in a form of permanent stasis maintained by violence. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tiessen 11</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Tiessen, Infoscape Research Lab: Centre for the Study of Social Media Faculty of Communication and Design, Ryerson University 2011, Surveillance and Society, Vol. 9, No. ½, pp. 167-184, “Being Watched Watching Watchers Watch: Determining the Digitized Future While Profitably Modulating Preemption (at the Airport),” http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/viewFile/modulating/modulating)</span>

By decreeing that it can know the unknowable, the state/security apparatus enacts a set of security protocols premised on the coercive power that comes from being able to mandate preemptive action in response to unknowable futures…
Rational free will, as a motivating factor in social and political change, by comparison, is not only futile, it becomes potentially life threatening.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The threat of terrorism is preempted by an attempt to homogenize and create a uniform population free of ontological difference. The security-industrial complex thrives on the creation of new dangers to justify its deliberate destruction of ontological difference, a process that intrinsically motivates racial violence and preserve a static society, reproducing its own threats.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell 05</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew J. Mitchell is a professor of Philosophy at Emory University with a research focus on Heidegger and Contemporary Continental Philosophy (“Heidegger and Terrorism” Stanford University Research in Phenomenology, 35 Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, The Netherlands 2005)</span>

The uniformity of beings arising from the emptiness of the abandonment of Being, in which it is only a matter of the calculable security of its order, an order which it subjugates to the will to will, this uniformity also conditions everywhere in advance of all national differences the uniformity of leadership [Führerschaft], for which all forms of government are only one instrument of leadership among others…
Human resources do not die, they perish.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We refuse to allow debate to exist in this state of security. Thus, Josh and I affirm the immanent potential of this resolution and debate itself to break free of the static logic of airport security. With the recognition that representation is essential to understandings of security logic, we offer airport security as our test case. But it is not merely the airports with which we are concerned – the question of the infrastructure topic and of debate itself is one of security. But the securitization of the topic didn’t have to happen. The static status quo is not the inevitable future – in fact, nothing is inevitable. The fluid pedagogy of the 1AC stands in stark opposition to security’s ontological stasis and debate’s epistemological stasis.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Just as policymakers are afraid of breaking the secure stasis of the status quo, the debate community is afraid of leaving its comfort zone. Our resolutions change but our arguments do not. Each round begins with a set of assumptions about how to debate and if these rules are breached, the behavioral detection officers read framework. In this manner, the debate round is analogous to the airport. If you want to access the benefits of debating, then you should fit into our preconceived notions of how to debate. Those who refuse are asked to undergo additional screening while the rest of the debate community regurgitates stale information, and we can only pass through the gates once we get past the “performance detector”. To take advantage of the incredible potential of the debate community, we must create our own unique education, free of these restrictions. If we set off the alarm in the process, so be it.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reid-Brinkley 12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “The Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley Interview”, 2/13/12, http://puttingthekindebate.com/2012/04/02/the-dr-shanara-reid-brinkley/)</span>

Dr. Reid-Binkley: Now here is the fear…
Once you say you’re black, then you’re biased.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Debate’s catastrophic impact calculus reflects the absolutist logic of airport security. We are beholden to maintain the status quo because any change in policy ends in nuclear war – we mask over the real world impacts in our race to the quickest extinction scenario, sacrificing our decision-making abilities for the sake of outweighing on magnitude. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Herbeck & Katsulas 92</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate; Dale Herbeck Professor and Chair Department of Communication John Katsulas is the director of Fulton Debate Society; 1992-10-00) </span>

Those of us who judge debate with some frequency know that while it is difficult to quantify probabilities, risk analysis forces us to assign probabilities to all arguments in a debate…
Of course, the problem with such argumentation is that it frequently borders on the absurd.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Take this opportunity to challenge the discursive norms of debate practice and endorse a new pedagogy. Debate’s death culture is intrinsic to our use of language and can only be critically interrogated through a language of opposition – the ballot is your chance to make a change in the community.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bjork 93</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University. Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…
We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V1.0 - Golden Desert</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">I thought I was flying to a debate tournament, but when I got here and heard the other teams start to speak, I realized I was still in the airport after all.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention One is Security:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The modern airport is an intrinsically securitized space – the physical and behavioral security systems exemplify the political climate of pervasive security. But this is not the defensive, observational security of Foucault’s panopticon. Danger is preemptively accounted for, not reactively addressed. The identity of the terrorist threat is constructed and applied to whomsoever the apparatus sees fit. Each passenger is reduced to a series of numbers on the screen of the biometric analyst and profiled into the rigid and racialized categories of the behavioral detection officer. The political rhetoric of inevitability and catastrophism has required the fluid adaptation of airport security to the omnipresent possibility of an explosive break in the system. The move from prevention to prediction has required the shift from the all-seeing panopticon to the all-knowing ban-opticon.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adey 09</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter Adey, School of Physical and Geographical Sciences, Research Institute for Law, Politics and Justice Keele University, Keele ST5 5BG, England, Received 5 January 2008; in revised form 1 September 2008; published online 23 February 2009, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Vol. 27, pages 274-295, “Facing airport security: affect, biopolitics, and the preemptive securitisation of the mobile body,”)</span>

What do the processes of airport security feel like?...
As Amoore writes, ``What Van Munster (2004, page 142) has called a `discourse on eventualities' has allowed the war on terror to be fought preemptively'' (Amoore, 2006, page 340).

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The overt, disciplinary power of the state has given way to the flexible control of mobile security, woven imperceptibly into the social fabric. In other words, the age of Discipline and Punish is dead. The security-industrial complex has formed to sacrifice our privacy not only for our supposed “own good”, but for profit, constantly changing its techniques to mask its true intentions. The contradictions that arise within airport security highlight the internal tensions of security logic.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tiessen 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew Tiessen, Infoscape Research Lab: Centre for the Study of Social Media Faculty of Communication and Design, Ryerson University 2011, Surveillance and Society, Vol. 9, No. ½, pp. 167-184, “Being Watched Watching Watchers Watch: Determining the Digitized Future While Profitably Modulating Preemption (at the Airport),” http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/viewFile/modulating/modulating)</span>

Gilles Deleuze once wrote in, “Postscript on the Societies of Control” (1992), that in the future (our present) societies would be controlled or “disciplined” using subtly unobtrusive and strategically applied forms of “modulation.”…
Appearances, it seems, are still deceiving – even if what’s being made to appear are high-resolution scans of our naked bodies.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Through the administration of preemptive security, the state claims a unique ontological relationship to future events, as sovereign power of force is magnified by the exclusive access to knowledge of inevitable threats. The logic of inevitability that motivates precautionary action against catastrophic threats allows the state to invoke any form of power to prevent perceived disaster scenarios. The attempt to expunge unpredictability from the social sphere is an effort to freeze society in a form of permanent stasis maintained by violence. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tiessen 11</span>** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Matthew Tiessen, Infoscape Research Lab: Centre for the Study of Social Media Faculty of Communication and Design, Ryerson University 2011, Surveillance and Society, Vol. 9, No. ½, pp. 167-184, “Being Watched Watching Watchers Watch: Determining the Digitized Future While Profitably Modulating Preemption (at the Airport),” http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/viewFile/modulating/modulating)</span>

By decreeing that it can know the unknowable, the state/security apparatus enacts a set of security protocols premised on the coercive power that comes from being able to mandate preemptive action in response to unknowable futures…
Rational free will, as a motivating factor in social and political change, by comparison, is not only futile, it becomes potentially life threatening.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The threat of terrorism is preempted by an attempt to homogenize and create a uniform population free of ontological difference. The security-industrial complex thrives on the creation of new dangers to justify its deliberate destruction of ontological difference, a process that intrinsically motivates racial violence and preserve a static society, reproducing its own threats.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell 05</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew J. Mitchell is a professor of Philosophy at Emory University with a research focus on Heidegger and Contemporary Continental Philosophy (“Heidegger and Terrorism” Stanford University Research in Phenomenology, 35 Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, The Netherlands 2005)</span>

The uniformity of beings arising from the emptiness of the abandonment of Being, in which it is only a matter of the calculable security of its order, an order which it subjugates to the will to will, this uniformity also conditions everywhere in advance of all national differences the uniformity of leadership [Führerschaft], for which all forms of government are only one instrument of leadership among others…
Human resources do not die, they perish.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The logic of preemption is a logic of racial categorization – to secure our world against the pervasive threat of terrorism we must identify the individuals who pose the greatest threat. Airport security is no longer a question of “Who is holding the bomb?” but “Which turban is hiding the bomb?”, all the while eschewing the essential question of “Is there a bomb at all?” Through mass media and state propaganda we have been assured that terrorism is inevitable in any future where we don’t conform to the static notions of identity and don’t take out our laptops to put them in a separate bin for the scanner. Through our desperate desire to predict the worst possible outcome we unconsciously adhere to accepted stereotypes of racist discrimination. We hear this in the words of an American Sikh traveler:</span>**

The most recent [incident] was at LAX airport in April 2011…
She didn’t tell me I could have done it myself and she hardly warned me when she was going to start.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(26-year-old Sikh female teacher, Crown Heights, Brooklyn – “In Our Own Words: Narratives of South Asian New Yorkers Affected by Racial and Religious Profiling”, a joint project by the NYC Profiling Collaborative, DRUM, The Sikh Coalition, United Sikhs, South Asian Youth Action, Coney Island Avenue Project, Council of Peoples Organization, South Asian Americans Leading Together, March 2012, p. 21, http://www.saalt.org/filestore/Reports/In%20Our%20Own%20Words%20Web%20FINAL.pdf) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Security policy has historically racist roots – our conception of a barbaric, savage “other” sustains our images of national unity and safety. Nationalism stands in opposition to terrorism but at the same time relies on it – the existence of the antinational terrorist feeds into the protective power of the nation-state. The call to maintain a static, secure state requires the exclusion of alternative identities delineated along race lines.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty 96</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roxanne Doty, Prof. of Political Science @ ASU, 1996 [Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representations in North-South Relations, p. 166-71]</span>

One of the deadly traces that has been deposited in our current "reality" and that figures prominently in this study is "race."…
The price that international relations scholarship pays for its inattention to the issue of representation is perpetuation of the dominant modes of making meaning and deferral of its responsibility and complicity in dominant representations.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thus, Josh and I affirm the immanent potential of this resolution and debate itself to break free of the static logic of airport security. With the recognition that representation is essential to understandings of security logic, we offer airport security as our test case. But it is not merely the airports with which we are concerned – the question of the infrastructure topic and of debate itself is one of security. But the securitization of the topic didn’t have to happen. The static status quo is not the inevitable future – in fact, nothing is inevitable. The fluid pedagogy of the 1AC stands in stark opposition to security’s ontological stasis and debate’s epistemological stasis.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two is Insecurity:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Just as policymakers are afraid of breaking the secure stasis of the status quo, the debate community is afraid of leaving its comfort zone. Our resolutions change but our arguments do not. Each round begins with a set of assumptions about how to debate and if these rules are breached, the behavioral detection officers read framework. In this manner, the debate round is analogous to the airport. If you want to access the benefits of debating, then you should fit into our preconceived notions of how to debate. Those who refuse are asked to undergo additional screening while the rest of the debate community regurgitates stale information, and we can only pass through the gates once we get past the “performance detector”. To take advantage of the incredible potential of the debate community, we must create our own unique education, free of these restrictions. If we set off the alarm in the process, so be it.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reid-Brinkley 12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “The Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley Interview”, 2/13/12, http://puttingthekindebate.com/2012/04/02/the-dr-shanara-reid-brinkley/)</span>

Dr. Reid-Binkley: Now here is the fear…
Once you say you’re black, then you’re biased.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Debate’s catastrophic impact calculus reflects the absolutist logic of airport security. We are beholden to maintain the status quo because any change in policy ends in nuclear war – we mask over the real world impacts in our race to the quickest extinction scenario, sacrificing our decision-making abilities for the sake of outweighing on magnitude. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Herbeck & Katsulas 92</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate; Dale Herbeck Professor and Chair Department of Communication John Katsulas is the director of Fulton Debate Society; 1992-10-00)</span>

Those of us who judge debate with some frequency know that while it is difficult to quantify probabilities, risk analysis forces us to assign probabilities to all arguments in a debate…
Of course, the problem with such argumentation is that it frequently borders on the absurd.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It’s no secret: all of our impact cards are cut from the end of the article where it says “And in the least likely, worst case scenario”. The precautionary principle that justifies security logic is the same as motivates judges’ ballots – if there’s one percent risk of a link, vote neg on the disad. This impossible standard crushes debate’s educational value, resulting in political paralysis, and utterly fails as a model for legitimate decision-making. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schneier 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruce Schneier, security technologist and author, MA from American University, Honorary Ph.D. from University of Westminster, “Worst-case thinking makes us nuts, not safe”, May 12, 2010, http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/12/schneier.worst.case.thinking/) [edited for ableist language]</span>

There's a certain blindness that comes from worst-case thinking…
Ignorance isn't a cause for doubt; when you can fill that ignorance with imagination, it can be a call to action.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Take this opportunity to challenge the discursive norms of debate practice and endorse a new pedagogy. Debate’s death culture is intrinsic to our use of language and can only be critically interrogated through a language of opposition – the ballot is your chance to make a change in the community.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bjork 93</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University. Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…
We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Use your ballot to say NO to the violent coercion of airport security that is mapped onto status quo debate practices. Each NO is but a piece of the puzzle, combining to break open a discursive space within the debate community, to reclaim ontological difference and oppose the ban-optic society. We cannot offer you all the answers, but we can ask the questions. Voting aff won’t change the world overnight. Take a chance, be insecure. This rejection is but one of many – will you take the first step?</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holloway 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 17-20)</span>

Imagine a sheet of ice covering a dark lake of possibility…
This is surely the only subject matter of theory that is left.

==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">TSA 1AC</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V3.0 - Texas/Gonzaga</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is Racial Profiling:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo airport security masks a system of racial profiling behind “behavioral detection”. And, the TSA is in the process of expanding this program throughout the United States.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**New York Times 12**(August 11, 2012)(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/us/racial-profiling-at-boston-airport-officials-say.html?pagewanted=all)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More than 30 federal officers in an airport program intended to spot telltale mannerisms of potential terrorists say the operation has become a magnet for racial profiling, targeting not only Middle Easterners but also blacks, Hispanics and other minorities…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The assessors look for inconsistencies in the answers and other signs of unusual behavior, like avoiding eye contact, sweating or fidgeting, officials said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Behavioral screening is nothing more than a euphemism for racist discrimination that becomes engrained in the public conscious.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because behavioral profiling requires security officials to identify conduct that is perfectly natural in a variety of situations, those whose actions triggers scrutiny under this security method are prone to abuse by security officers based on “race-based preconceptions as to which racial groups are more likely to represent a ‘terrorist’ threat.”…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The brunt of this discrimination, critics warn, will be borne by those who are (or are perceived to be) Muslim, Arab and South Asian, wrongly reinforcing the idea that terrorist suspects can be successfully identified by their race, ethnicity or religion and reiterating prejudicial stereotypes in the mind of the public instead of devoting resources to “genuine threats to security.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline security is only the first step to the implementation of a racist security state that spreads its authority across all transportation sectors nationwide.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kleiner 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Critics of this method are likely to argue that such an elaborate, “Big Brother” —style physical security system is untenably expensive and even unnecessary since the overwhelming majority of airline passengers are not terrorists…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, those who opposed CAPPS II’s use of personal data originally supplied to airlines for reasons unrelated to terrorism should be pleased to note that an enhanced, advanced physical security system requires no special data because it presumes that each passenger is equally capable, if not of acting as a terrorist, then of being targeted by one as a “bomb mule.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism outweighs every impact – it’s a precondition to ethical decision-making. It must be rejected without fail in every instance.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Memmi 2000** – Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism normalizes war as the permanent condition of society.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mendieta 2**, (Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within, constitutively…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To protect society entails we be ready to kill its threats, its foes, and if we understand society as a unity of life, as a continuum of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>

**Racism is the root cause of biopolitical killing.**
**Jabri 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>educator, academic and writer. She is Director of the Centre for International Relations and Senior Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of War Studies, King's College London. Michel Foucault’s Analytics of War:The Social, the International,and the Racial VIVIENNE JABRI King’s College London International Political Sociology (2007) 1 , 67–81 http://www.scribd.com/doc/49532280/foucault

Foucault’s analytic of biopower is indicative of his understanding of the inter-national and practices that constitute humanity in terms of racial division...
When the above statement is understood at the level of practices, the enemy can no longer be conceived in biological terms, as is implied by Foucault, but comes to acquire a political subjectivity. Racism as a practice can only be understood in political terms.

**Racism must be rejected at all costs – every single step is necessary to destroy a culture of separatism and dehumanization. Small reforms matter.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Barndt 91</span>** [Joseph Barndt, co-director of Crossroads, a ministry to dismantle racism, 1991, "Dismantling Racism: The Continuing challenge to White America," p. 155-6.]

To study racism is to study walls. We have looked at barriers and fences, restraints and limitations, ghettos and prisons…
For the sake of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Binding federal legislation and investment in physical security initiatives is the best way to prevent racial profiling</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rather than spending millions of tax dollars on programs that profile and inadvertently discriminate against minority passengers, the TSA should concentrate on the continued development and expansion of these and other physical security initiatives…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If the implementation of advanced technology security programs forces airports to spend more time and human capital on screening passengers, so be it: not only does this approach avoid unconstitutional scrutinizing of those who fit into protected class categories, but this method will enable TSA to identify individuals like Richard Reid, John Walker Lindh, and Marwan alShehhi (those intending to commit acts of terror) as well as individuals like Jeffrey Goldberg and Nathaniel Heatwole (those merely seeking to underscore the inadequacies of existing national security measures).</span>

**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by investing in physical security initiatives in airports, including a computerized system for randomly selecting passengers for secondary searches to replace the Transportation Security Administration’s behavior detection program.**

**We reserve the right to clarify.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two is Ethical Policymaking:</span>**

**We must not let political pressure or concerns about political capital get in the way of making ethical decisions – ranking political priorities disenfranchises minority populations.**
**Ruby-Sachs 8** (Emma, Lawyer and politics writer for the Huffington Post, “Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis”, Huff Post Politics, 11/24/2008, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html)

On Friday, the Washington Times reported that Barack Obama will be waiting until 2010 to push for the end of Don't Ask Don't Tell…
Working towards full LGBT rights should, and hopefully will, remain a priority for all of us.

**<span style="background-color: white;">The role of the ballot must be to endorse our advocacy as part of an educational system geared towards combating social injustice.</span>**
**Nieutvenhuis 10**– Professor of Management and Policy StudiesJan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1

Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled with attempts to create social justice…
For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.

**We <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">should plan through the lens of racial equity – only a decision-making system founded on a system that resists structural racism can be ethical and effective.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">JCPES 11</span>** The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, 4/13/11, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf

Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a critical lens through which we should plan and examine decision-making…
We must be the actors that initiate and when necessary carry out the change, not just in one sector, but at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.

**Engaging the political is key – individual radicalism and anti-politics fail to account for the rest of society, cede power to unaccountable elites, and abandon a meaningful framework of discussion.**
**Chandler 4** (Professor David Chandler, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the Center for Democracy, University of Westminster, editor of over a dozen books and contributor to over sixty peer-reviewed journals, research focus in the human subject in the political and social sphere. “Building Global Civil Society 'From Below'?”, Millennium, Vol. 33, No. 4, p. 339)

The struggle for individual ethical and political autonomy, the claim for the recognition of separate 'political spaces' and for the 'incommunicability' of political causes, demonstrates the limits of the radical claims for the normative project of global civil society 'from below'…
If the only alternative to the political 'game' is to threaten to 'take our ball home' the anti-politics of rejectionism, the powers that be can sleep peacefully in their beds.

**Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitable and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other**
**Simmons 99** William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6

Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the state be made as ethical as possible…
Each of these principles, left to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.

**Our infusion of ethics into politics is the only way to solve political concerns – focus on ontology cannot make material change or alter existing systems – this evidence is comparative**
**Kioupkiolis 11** (Alexandros, Lecturer in Political Organization at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, “Keeping it open: Ontology, ethics, knowledge and radical democracy,” Philosophy & Social Criticism vol. 37 no. 6 )

As he understands it, the ‘political’ implies primarily the subversion of social fixity, the questioning of established order, transformative praxis and the construction of new subjectivities and social aggregations…
These features make the ethics of infinite responsibility well suited to produce the hegemonic glue that will hold the various dissident groups together in collective aggregations that fight global inequities.


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Impact Framing:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Debate’s fixation on unlikely worst-case-scenario impacts is counterproductive and interferes with risks worth taking.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Rescher 83 </span>**[Nicholas, Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at University of Pittsburgh, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]

The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of unrealism in deliberations about risk in real-life situations…
The worst threat is certainly something to be borne in mind and taken into account, but it is emphatically not a satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.

**1% risk calculus makes decisionmaking impossible and causes paralysis – only prefer high probability scenarios.**
**Meskill 09** (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)

Tom Friedman's piece today in the Times on the environment (http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/09/opinion/09friedman.html?_r=1) is one of the flimsiest pieces by a major columnist that I can remember ever reading…
Many religious movements - for example the early Jesus movement - have exhibited precisely this combination of traits: the looming apocalypse, with the time (just barely) to take action.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We should critically interrogate debate’s traditional focus on existential impacts – this admiration of disasters masks our ethical obligations.</span>**
**Bjork 93** (former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)

I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…
We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.

**High-impact low-probability scenarios turn debate into an absurdist game of illusions divorced from real-world policymaking – we reject the impact framing of “that causes global nuclear war” in favor of a recognition of structural inequality that we can solve.**
**Herbeck and Katsulas 92** (The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate; Dale Herbeck Professor and Chair Department of Communication John Katsulas is the director of Fulton Debate Society; 1992-10-00)

Those of us who judge debate with some frequency know that while it is difficult to quantify probabilities, risk analysis forces us to assign probabilities to all arguments in a debate…
Of course, the problem with such argumentation is that it frequently borders on the absurd.

**<span style="color: #222222;">The liberal international order and nuclear deterrence have made great power war extinct – cooperation is more likely than conflict.</span>**
**Deudney & Ikenberry 9** (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, & John, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, Jan/Feb 2009, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” proquest, accessed 6-15-11,)

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing factors and forces…
In fact, the conditions of the twenty-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.

**No correlation between economic decline and war.**
**Ferguson 06**-Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History @ Harvard University, William Ziegler Professor of Bussiness Administration @ Harvard Bussiness School, Phillipe Roman Chair in History and International Affairs @ the London School of Economics, Research Fellow @ the University of Cambrige, Senior Fellow @ the Hoover Instituion, Stanford University, Senior Research Fellow @ Jesus College, Oxford University, PhD, MA, B.A. in History @ Oxford University [Niall, Foreign Affairs, “The Next War of the World,” September/October 2006, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61916/niall-ferguson/the-next-war-of-the-world]]</span>]

Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed…
Some wars came after periods of growth, others were the causes rather than the consequences of economic catastrophe, and some severe economic crises were not followed by wars.

**Even the creators of nuclear winter theory acknowledge that extinction is not a possible result of nuclear war.**
**Robock 10** (Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)

While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is also important to point out what will not be the consequences…
The consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction claims from war are based in a racist mindset which views white westerners as the only ‘civilization’ - social inequality outweighs as a structural impact.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Martin 82**,</span> associate prof in <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/ssmac/sts/index.html|Science, Technology and Society]]</span> at the University of Wollongong, 1982, Brian, Critique of nuclear extinction, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300 http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html

White, western orientation…
In practice, poor non-white populations arguably would be better off without the attentions of white, western 'civilisation' - although nuclear war is hardly the way to achieve this.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, view liberty and equity as moral side constraints – pure utilitarianism makes true individual rights impossible to attain.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Nozick 74 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Nozick, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">74</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Anarchy, State, and Utopia, Copyright @ 1974, google books)</span>

2. MORAL CONSTRAINTS AND MORAL GOALS…
He does not get some overbalancing good from his sacrifice, and no one is entitled to force this upon him-least of all a state or government that claims his allegiance (as other individuals do not) and that therefore scrupulously must be neutral between its citizens.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V2.0 - Fullerton/Glenbrooks</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is Racial Profiling:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo airport security masks a system of racial profiling behind “behavioral detection”. And, the TSA is in the process of expanding this program throughout the United States.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**New York Times 12**(August 11, 2012)(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/us/racial-profiling-at-boston-airport-officials-say.html?pagewanted=all)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More than 30 federal officers in an airport program intended to spot telltale mannerisms of potential terrorists say the operation has become a magnet for racial profiling, targeting not only Middle Easterners but also blacks, Hispanics and other minorities…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The assessors look for inconsistencies in the answers and other signs of unusual behavior, like avoiding eye contact, sweating or fidgeting, officials said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Behavioral screening is nothing more than a euphemism for racist discrimination that becomes engrained in the public conscious.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because behavioral profiling requires security officials to identify conduct that is perfectly natural in a variety of situations, those whose actions triggers scrutiny under this security method are prone to abuse by security officers based on “race-based preconceptions as to which racial groups are more likely to represent a ‘terrorist’ threat.”…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The brunt of this discrimination, critics warn, will be borne by those who are (or are perceived to be) Muslim, Arab and South Asian, wrongly reinforcing the idea that terrorist suspects can be successfully identified by their race, ethnicity or religion and reiterating prejudicial stereotypes in the mind of the public instead of devoting resources to “genuine threats to security.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline security is only the first step to the implementation of a racist security state that spreads its authority across all transportation sectors nationwide.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kleiner 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Critics of this method are likely to argue that such an elaborate, “Big Brother” —style physical security system is untenably expensive and even unnecessary since the overwhelming majority of airline passengers are not terrorists…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, those who opposed CAPPS II’s use of personal data originally supplied to airlines for reasons unrelated to terrorism should be pleased to note that an enhanced, advanced physical security system requires no special data because it presumes that each passenger is equally capable, if not of acting as a terrorist, then of being targeted by one as a “bomb mule.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism normalizes war as the permanent condition of society.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mendieta 2**, (Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within, constitutively…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To protect society entails we be ready to kill its threats, its foes, and if we understand society as a unity of life, as a continuum of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism outweighs every impact – it’s a precondition to ethical decision-making. It must be rejected without fail in every instance.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Memmi 2000** – Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**Racism is the root cause of biopolitical killing.**
**Jabri 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>educator, academic and writer. She is Director of the Centre for International Relations and Senior Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of War Studies, King's College London. Michel Foucault’s Analytics of War:The Social, the International,and the Racial VIVIENNE JABRI King’s College London International Political Sociology (2007) 1 , 67–81 http://www.scribd.com/doc/49532280/foucault

Foucault’s analytic of biopower is indicative of his understanding of the inter-national and practices that constitute humanity in terms of racial division...
When the above statement is understood at the level of practices, the enemy can no longer be conceived in biological terms, as is implied by Foucault, but comes to acquire a political subjectivity. Racism as a practice can only be understood in political terms.

**Racism must be rejected at all costs – every single step is necessary to destroy a culture of separatism and dehumanization. Small reforms matter.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Barndt 91</span>** [Joseph Barndt, co-director of Crossroads, a ministry to dismantle racism, 1991, "Dismantling Racism: The Continuing challenge to White America," p. 155-6.]

To study racism is to study walls. We have looked at barriers and fences, restraints and limitations, ghettos and prisons…
For the sake of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Binding federal legislation and investment in physical security initiatives is the best way to prevent racial profiling</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rather than spending millions of tax dollars on programs that profile and inadvertently discriminate against minority passengers, the TSA should concentrate on the continued development and expansion of these and other physical security initiatives…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If the implementation of advanced technology security programs forces airports to spend more time and human capital on screening passengers, so be it: not only does this approach avoid unconstitutional scrutinizing of those who fit into protected class categories, but this method will enable TSA to identify individuals like Richard Reid, John Walker Lindh, and Marwan alShehhi (those intending to commit acts of terror) as well as individuals like Jeffrey Goldberg and Nathaniel Heatwole (those merely seeking to underscore the inadequacies of existing national security measures).</span>

**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by investing in physical security initiatives in airports, including a computerized system for randomly selecting passengers for secondary searches to replace the Transportation Security Administration’s behavior detection program.**

**We reserve the right to clarify.**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two is Ethical Policymaking:</span>**

**We must not let political pressure or concerns about political capital get in the way of making ethical decisions – ranking political priorities disenfranchises minority populations.**
**Ruby-Sachs 8** (Emma, Lawyer and politics writer for the Huffington Post, “Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis”, Huff Post Politics, 11/24/2008, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html)

On Friday, the Washington Times reported that Barack Obama will be waiting until 2010 to push for the end of Don't Ask Don't Tell…
Working towards full LGBT rights should, and hopefully will, remain a priority for all of us.

**<span style="background-color: white;">The role of the ballot must be to endorse our advocacy as part of an educational system geared towards combating social injustice.</span>**
**Nieutvenhuis 10**– Professor of Management and Policy StudiesJan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1

Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled with attempts to create social justice…
For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.

**Attempting to predict political outcomes is impossible – linear analysis leads to serial policy failure. Both positive and negatives results are inevitable.**
**Sa 4** – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)

In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either a virtuous cycle or a vicious cycle…
There could be a variety of reasons for this inaccuracy in prediction, but one certain reason is that policies themselves are intrinsically governed by uncertainty, complexity and chaos in policies that produce many different outcomes though they are faced with the same initial internal states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Instead, we should plan through the lens of racial equity – only a decision-making system founded on a system that resists structural racism can be ethical and effective.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JCPES 11</span>** The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, 4/13/11, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf

Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a critical lens through which we should plan and examine decision-making…
We must be the actors that initiate and when necessary carry out the change, not just in one sector, but at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.

**Disads are non-unique – fights over transportation are inevitable - only placing equity at the heart of our decision-calculus as opposed to political concerns can deliver basic rights to all.**
**LCEF 11** Leadership Conference Education Fund was established in 1969 to promote social justice goals (civilrights.org), “Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity” March, http://www.aapd.com/what-we-do/transportation/where-we-need-to-go.pdf

This year, Congress will consider the surface transportation reauthorization bill, allocating a significant investment of federal dollars to repair our aging infrastructure and expand it to meet the needs of our 21st-century economy…
The purpose of this paper is to highlight an important opportunity for all segments of society to participate fully in the debates around our nation’s transportation policy to ensure no community is left behind.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Impact Framing:</span>**

**The international system exists in a state of chaos – predicting responses in the long-term is impossible – there are too many variables acting at once.**
**Kissane 10** – assistant dean at the Centre d'Etudes Franco-Americain de Management, lecturer at the University of South Australia, PhD from the University of South Australia in International Relations theory (Dylan, “The Illusion of Anarchy: Chaos, Complexity and the Origins of World War One”, found online)

Finally, in a chaotic system we would expect that long-term prediction is not only unlikely but also truly impossible…
This paper turns, then, to the debate on the reasons for the outbreak of World War One.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Debate’s fixation on unlikely worst-case-scenario impacts is counterproductive and interferes with risks worth taking.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Rescher 83 </span>**[Nicholas, Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at University of Pittsburgh, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]

The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of unrealism in deliberations about risk in real-life situations…
The worst threat is certainly something to be borne in mind and taken into account, but it is emphatically not a satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.

**1% risk calculus makes decisionmaking impossible and causes paralysis – only prefer high probability scenarios.**
**Meskill 09** (David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)

Tom Friedman's piece today in the Times on the environment (http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/09/opinion/09friedman.html?_r=1) is one of the flimsiest pieces by a major columnist that I can remember ever reading…
Many religious movements - for example the early Jesus movement - have exhibited precisely this combination of traits: the looming apocalypse, with the time (just barely) to take action.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We should critically interrogate debate’s traditional focus on existential impacts – this admiration of disasters masks our ethical obligations.</span>**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bjork 93</span>** (former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)

I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…
We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.

**High-impact low-probability scenarios turn debate into an absurdist game of illusions divorced from real-world policymaking – we reject the impact framing of “that causes global nuclear war” in favor of a recognition of structural inequality that we can solve.**
**Herbeck and Katsulas 92** (The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate; Dale Herbeck Professor and Chair Department of Communication John Katsulas is the director of Fulton Debate Society; 1992-10-00)

Those of us who judge debate with some frequency know that while it is difficult to quantify probabilities, risk analysis forces us to assign probabilities to all arguments in a debate…
Of course, the problem with such argumentation is that it frequently borders on the absurd.

**<span style="color: #222222;">The liberal international order and nuclear deterrence have made great power war extinct – cooperation is more likely than conflict.</span>**
**Deudney & Ikenberry 9** (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, & John, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, Jan/Feb 2009, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” proquest, accessed 6-15-11,)

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing factors and forces…
In fact, the conditions of the twenty-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.

**No correlation between economic decline and war.**
**Ferguson 06**-Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History @ Harvard University, William Ziegler Professor of Bussiness Administration @ Harvard Bussiness School, Phillipe Roman Chair in History and International Affairs @ the London School of Economics, Research Fellow @ the University of Cambrige, Senior Fellow @ the Hoover Instituion, Stanford University, Senior Research Fellow @ Jesus College, Oxford University, PhD, MA, B.A. in History @ Oxford University [Niall, Foreign Affairs, “The Next War of the World,” September/October 2006, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/61916/niall-ferguson/the-next-war-of-the-world]]</span>]

Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed…
Some wars came after periods of growth, others were the causes rather than the consequences of economic catastrophe, and some severe economic crises were not followed by wars.

**Even the creators of nuclear winter theory acknowledge that extinction is not a possible result of nuclear war.**
**Robock 10** (Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)

While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is also important to point out what will not be the consequences…
The consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction claims from war are based in a racist mindset which views white westerners as the only ‘civilization’ - social inequality outweighs as a structural impact.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Martin 82**,</span> associate prof in <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/ssmac/sts/index.html|Science, Technology and Society]]</span> at the University of Wollongong, 1982, Brian, Critique of nuclear extinction, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300 http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html

White, western orientation…
In practice, poor non-white populations arguably would be better off without the attentions of white, western 'civilisation' - although nuclear war is hardly the way to achieve this.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Finally, view liberty and equity as moral side constraints – pure utilitarianism makes true individual rights impossible to attain.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Nozick 74 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Nozick, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">74</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Anarchy, State, and Utopia, Copyright @ 1974, google books)</span>

2. MORAL CONSTRAINTS AND MORAL GOALS…
He does not get some overbalancing good from his sacrifice, and no one is entitled to force this upon him-least of all a state or government that claims his allegiance (as other individuals do not) and that therefore scrupulously must be neutral between its citizens.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">V1.0 - Long Beach</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention One is Racial Profiling:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo airport security masks a system of racial profiling behind “behavioral detection”. And, the TSA is in the process of expanding this program throughout the United States.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**New York Times 12**(August 11, 2012)(http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/us/racial-profiling-at-boston-airport-officials-say.html?pagewanted=all)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More than 30 federal officers in an airport program intended to spot telltale mannerisms of potential terrorists say the operation has become a magnet for racial profiling, targeting not only Middle Easterners but also blacks, Hispanics and other minorities…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The assessors look for inconsistencies in the answers and other signs of unusual behavior, like avoiding eye contact, sweating or fidgeting, officials said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Behavioral screening is nothing more than a euphemism for racist discrimination that becomes engrained in the public conscious.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because behavioral profiling requires security officials to identify conduct that is perfectly natural in a variety of situations, those whose actions triggers scrutiny under this security method are prone to abuse by security officers based on “race-based preconceptions as to which racial groups are more likely to represent a ‘terrorist’ threat.”…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The brunt of this discrimination, critics warn, will be borne by those who are (or are perceived to be) Muslim, Arab and South Asian, wrongly reinforcing the idea that terrorist suspects can be successfully identified by their race, ethnicity or religion and reiterating prejudicial stereotypes in the mind of the public instead of devoting resources to “genuine threats to security.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline security is only the first step to the implementation of a racist security state that spreads its authority across all transportation sectors nationwide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Lawyer, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Critics of this method are likely to argue that such an elaborate, “Big Brother” —style physical security system is untenably expensive and even unnecessary since the overwhelming majority of airline passengers are not terrorists…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, those who opposed CAPPS II’s use of personal data originally supplied to airlines for reasons unrelated to terrorism should be pleased to note that an enhanced, advanced physical security system requires no special data because it presumes that each passenger is equally capable, if not of acting as a terrorist, then of being targeted by one as a “bomb mule.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism is a necessary cause of genocide and violent extremism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Steuter & Wills 8** [Erin and Deborah, Writers at Rowman & Littlefield Publishers Inc., At War With Metaphor: Media, Propaganda, and Racism in the War on Terror, pg. 41 , 2008]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Every genocide is followed by denial…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Once moderate voices have been suppressed, individual deaths escalate into mass killings.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism creates a permanent condition of war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mendieta 2**, (Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within, constitutively…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To protect society entails we be ready to kill its threats, its foes, and if we understand society as a unity of life, as a continuum of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism outweighs every impact – it’s a precondition to ethical decision-making. It must be rejected without fail in every instance.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Memmi 2000** – Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have an a priori academic and ethical obligation to reject racism – it poisons all social relations, solidifying a permanent system of oppression and rendering problems invisible to political analysis.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arnesen 1** (Eric Arnesen, Fall 2001, Professor of History at George Washington University, Whiteness and the Historians’ Imagination, Published at University of Illinois at Chicago, [[http://webs.rps205.com/teachers/jsolberg/files/A125C20651D2406E873089EBFF386B49.pdf]], 6/27/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whiteness is not merely one more avenue of scholarly investigation among others, for many of its practitioners aggressively position themselves on the front lines of antiracism in the academy…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The remaining sections, which explore the weaknesses of the historical scholarship on whiteness, suggest that the concept’s problems are sufficiently serious as to cast doubt on its utility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The role of the ballot must be to endorse our advocacy as part of an educational system geared towards combating social injustice.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nieutvenhuis 10** – Professor of Management and Policy Studies, Jan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1 </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as something that must be reconciled with attempts to create social justice…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Binding federal legislation and investment in physical security initiatives is the best way to prevent racial profiling</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kleiner 10** (Yevgenia, Editor for Boston College Third World Law Journal. “Racial Profiling in the Name of National Security: Protecting Minority Travelers' Civil Liberties in the Age of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, 30:1.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rather than spending millions of tax dollars on programs that profile and inadvertently discriminate against minority passengers, the TSA should concentrate on the continued development and expansion of these and other physical security initiatives…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If the implementation of advanced technology security programs forces airports to spend more time and human capital on screening passengers, so be it: not only does this approach avoid unconstitutional scrutinizing of those who fit into protected class categories, but this method will enable TSA to identify individuals like Richard Reid, John Walker Lindh, and Marwan alShehhi (those intending to commit acts of terror) as well as individuals like Jeffrey Goldberg and Nathaniel Heatwole (those merely seeking to underscore the inadequacies of existing national security measures).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by investing in physical security initiatives in airports to replace the Transportation Security Administration’s behavior detection program, including a computerized system for randomly selecting passengers for secondary searches. We’ll clarify.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 19px;">Contention Two is Ethical Policymaking:</span>**


<span style="font-family: Arial;">**We must not let political pressure or concerns about political capital get in the way of making ethical decisions – ranking political priorities disenfranchises minority populations.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Ruby-Sachs 8** </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Emma, Lawyer and politics writer for the Huffington Post, “Ranking the Issues: Gay Rights in an Economic Crisis”, Huff Post Politics, 11/24/2008, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/emma-rubysachs/ranking-the-issues-gay-ri_b_146023.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">On Friday, the Washington Times reported that Barack Obama will be waiting until 2010 to push for the end of Don't Ask Don't Tell…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Working towards full LGBT rights should, and hopefully will, remain a priority for all of us.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 95%;">Rejection of ethics for political concerns perpetuates tyranny – the primary concern should be our ethical commitment to others.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 95%;">Jovanovic & Wood 4</span><span style="font-size: 90%;">–</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">*Communications/Rhetoric Professors @ Denver University and University of North Carolina respectively, (Spoma and Roy, “Speaking from the Bedrock of Ethics,” Philosophy and Rhetoric Vol 37 no 4, 2004, 317-334)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Levinas describes sociality of the kind we are discussing as a "moral summons" (1969, 196)…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">That we are haunted by misgivings or guilt or profound questions as we anticipate or reflect on an act of violence points out that our redemption is to be found in this responsibility (Bailie 2001).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Attempting to predict political outcomes is impossible – linear analysis leads to serial policy failure. Both positive and negatives results are inevitable.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Sa 4** – </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either a virtuous cycle or a vicious cycle…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">There could be a variety of reasons for this inaccuracy in prediction, but one certain reason is that policies themselves are intrinsically governed by uncertainty, complexity and chaos in policies that produce many different outcomes though they are faced with the same initial internal states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**The international system exists in a state of chaos – predicting responses in the long-term is impossible – there are too many variables acting at once.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Kissane 10** – </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">assistant dean at the Centre d'Etudes Franco-Americain de Management, lecturer at the University of South Australia, PhD from the University of South Australia in International Relations theory (Dylan, “The Illusion of Anarchy: Chaos, Complexity and the Origins of World War One”, found online)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, in a chaotic system we would expect that long-term prediction is not only unlikely but also truly impossible…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">This paper turns, then, to the debate on the reasons for the outbreak of World War One.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Instead, we should plan through the lens of racial equity – only a decision-making system founded on a system that resists structural racism can be ethical and effective.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**JCPES 11**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, 4/13/11, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a critical lens through which we should plan and examine decision-making…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">We must be the actors that initiate and when necessary carry out the change, not just in one sector, but at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**We should critically interrogate debate’s traditional focus on existential impacts – this admiration of disasters masks our ethical obligations.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Bjork 93**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Debate’s fixation on unlikely worst-case-scenario impacts is counterproductive and interferes with risks worth taking.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Rescher 83**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[Nicholas, Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at University of Pittsburgh, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of unrealism in deliberations about risk in real-life situations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The worst threat is certainly something to be borne in mind and taken into account, but it is emphatically not a satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**1%” risk calculus makes decision-making impossible – only prefer high probability scenarios.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Meskill 9**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(David, professor at Colorado School of Mines and PhD from Harvard, “The "One Percent Doctrine" and Environmental Faith,” Dec 9, http://davidmeskill.blogspot.com/2009/12/one-percent-doctrine-and-environmental.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Tom Friedman's piece today in the Times on the environment (http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/09/opinion/09friedman.html?_r=1) is one of the flimsiest pieces by a major columnist that I can remember ever reading…</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Many religious movements - for example the early Jesus movement - have exhibited precisely this combination of traits: the looming apocalypse, with the time (just barely) to take action.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**The liberal international order and nuclear deterrence have made great power war extinct – cooperation is more likely than conflict.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Deudney & Ikenberry 9**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, & John, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, Jan/Feb 2009, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” proquest, accessed 6-15-11,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing factors and forces.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">In fact, the conditions of the twenty-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**No great power war – recent studies and trends prove**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Robb 12**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Doug Robb, U,S. Navy Proceedings Magazine - May 2012 Vol |38/5/I,3I I “Now Hear This - Why the Age of Great-Power War Is Over”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">In Proceedings ’ April “Now Hear This,” Navy Lieutenant Commander Rachel Gosnell and Marine Second Lieutenant Michael Orzetti argue that “the possibility of great-power war [between the United States and China] cannot be ruled out.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">As Bob Dylan warned, “When you ain’t got nothing, you ain’t got nothing to lose.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Even the creators of nuclear winter theory acknowledge that extinction is not a possible result.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Robock 10**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">While it is important to point out the consequences of nuclear winter, it is also important to point out what will not be the consequences.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The consequences of nuclear winter are extreme enough without these additional effects, however.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">**View liberty and equity as moral side constraints – pure utilitarianism makes true individual rights impossible to attain.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Nozick 74**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Robert Nozick, Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, 74 (Anarchy, State, and Utopia, Copyright @ 1974, google books) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">2. MORAL CONSTRAINTS AND MORAL GOALS This question assumes that a moral concern can function only as a moral goal, as an end state for some activities to achieve as their result.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">He does not get some overbalancing good from his sacrifice, and no one is entitled to force this upon him-least of all a state or government that claims his allegiance (as other individuals do not) and that therefore scrupulously must be neutral between its citizens.</span>


==**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Bering Strait 1AC</span>**== 
===**V1.0 - Wake Forest**=== 

<span class="Underline">**Sydney and I ask you to imagine that the United States federal government increases its investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States in order to complete a fixed-link Bering Strait crossing.**</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">**Contention One is Russia:**</span>

**The Bering Strait tunnel is a unique act of imagination which recalls inspiring science fiction of the past — it’s a symbol of hope for global cooperation.**
**MORRISON 2011** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Richard, “A train trip from Moscow to New York?; The proposed construction of a tunnel linking the rail networks of Russia and North America is a brave new world indeed,” The Times, August 26, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Not since Yuri Gagarin orbited the Earth 50 years ago have the Russians grabbed so many headlines for their technological daring…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If the Bering Strait tunnel does open in 2045, I'll buy myself a train ticket to New York as a 90th birthday treat.</span>

**Unfortunately, American perceptions of Russia vacillate between extremes of cultural relativism and economic universalism. Current attitudes towards Russian technological projects stem from an unresolved mix of contempt and fascination.**
<span class="Underline">**ENGERMAN 2003**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 7-11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">American ideas about Russia's predominantly peasant population also built on indigenous Russian ones…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Within most chapters, biographical sections highlight the ubiquity of these beliefs, even among experts with discordant political views and divergent personal experiences.</span>

**This is particularly true of the Bering Strait tunnel. Russians are depicted as irrational zealots, obsessed with dreams of gigantic megaprojects despite their backwardness and inferiority, yet even this critic feels the pull of imagination in the Bering Strait tunnel.**
**WHITTELL 2001**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Giles, “Oh no, Ivan, spare us another big idea,” The Times, Jan 6, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Bering tunnel is a typical example of Russian folie de grandeur…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That is when Russia's tree-huggers and moss-watchers should assemble at the extreme eastern tip of Chukotka and ask those of us who follow them for the exotic dateline what on earth would travel along a Bering tunnel.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This example represents a broader trend of pitting Russia against the US which spills over into our daily lives. The effect of Russian stereotypes outweighs topic education — we will forget the details we learn but retain a general impression of Russia.**</span>
**WASHBURN AND BURKE 1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Philo, Purdue University, and Barbara, U of Minn Morris, “The Symbolic Construction of Russia and the United States on Russian National Television,” Sociological Quarterly, September)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Numerous analysis have argued that American media presentations of international events tend to fall in line with the policy interests of the U. S. government (Gans 1980; Paletz and Entman 1981; Parenti 1993; Qualier 1985; Wallis and Baran 1990)…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The power involved here is an ideological power; the power to signify events in a particular way.</span>

**Depicting Russia as a foreign Other located in a distant Asia apart from the West and incapable of technological transformation encourages violence and constructs an enemy relationship.**
**ENGERMAN 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 2-4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These questions redounded around the world in the twentieth century…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Particularist views of Russia, which emphasized the nations unique traditions and character traits, dominated American writings until the 1920s.</span>

<span class="Underline">**These cultural discourses determine policy towards Russia.**</span>
**VAN EFFERINK 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Leonhardt, MSc in Financial Economics at Erasmus University Rotterdam and an MA in 'Geopolitics, Territory and Security' at King’s College London. He is now working on a PhD with Royal Holloway’s (University of London), “Polar Partner or Poles Apart?” PSA Graduate Network Conference December 2010, [[http://www.psa.ac.uk/spgrp/51/2010/Ppr/PGC2_Van%20EfferinkLeonhardt_Polar_Partners_or_Poles_Apart_PSA_2010.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The term ‘critical geopolitics’ had already been coined by the end of the 1980s (Dodds 2001)…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As a result, it dehistoricises, degeographicalises and depoliticises knowledge.</span>

**Otherization of Russia results in real hostility.**
**LIEVEN 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, [[http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Russophobia today is therefore rooted not in ideological differences but in national hatred of a kind that is sadly too common…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is certainly not the wish of most Americans-nor of any other Westerners-and it is dangerous. For of one thing we can be sure: a country that is seen to need enemies will sooner or later find them everywhere.</span>

**Interrogating our perceptions of Russia is key to good foreign policy education overall — the same condescending discourses are spread to others.**
**LIEVEN 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anatol, Senior Associate for Foreign and Security policy at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Against Russophobia,” World Policy Journal, Winter, [[http://www.worldpolicy.newschool.edu/journal/lieven.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ever since the Cold War ended, Western officials and commentators have been telling the Russians how they need to grow out of their Cold War attitudes toward the West and Western institutions, and learn to see things in a "modern" and "normal" way...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At worst, it can encourage a kind of racism, in which certain nations are classed as irrationally, irredeemably savage and wicked</span>

<span class="Underline">**That makes extinction inevitable — survival is only possible by imagining our connections to others.**</span>
**KEEN 1986**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sam, author, contributing editor of Psychology Today, Faces of the Enemy: Reflections of the Hostile Imagination: The Psychology of Enmity, p. 135-136)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The two major problems that will have to be solved if we are to survive long beyond the twentieth century--the habit of warfare and ecological pollution--are two sides of a single coin…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is harder yet to imagine that we will survive if we cannot get beyond hostility to kinship.</span>

**Our act of imagination solves racism and all intolerance.**
**UPF 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Universal Peace Foundation, “Bering Strait Project,” http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The idea for a tunnel, first proposed over one hundred years ago, was again championed by UPF Founder Dr. Sun Myung Moon during his UPF Peace Tours of 2005 and 2006 as a way to bring peace by breaking through cultural and religious boundaries as well as geographic and political divisions…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Visionaries and pragmatists alike are excited by the potential for easier exchanges of people and goods between Asia and the Americas.</span>

**Racism outweighs every impact — precondition to ethical decision making**
**MEMMI** **2000 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission, probably never achieved, yet for this very reason, it is a struggle to be undertaken without surcease and without concessions…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">**Contention Two is Imagine:**</span>

**We must take a leap of imagination — the Bering Strait link is being killed by focus on the details of implementation and the fear of risk. We should start by imagining the crossing, not by debating how government policy is implemented.**
**OLIVER 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, writer and journalist, The Bering Strait Crossing: A 21st Century Frontier Between East and West, 216-219)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">'North by Northwest', now it is time to pass between continents, from the risible to the sublime, which is more challenging to assess…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is the crossing point.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Our framing of the aff is a bridge to others — we explore the tension between universalism and relativism in Western perceptions of Russian infrastructure projects.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**ENGERMAN 2003**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Engerman is Assistant Professor of History at Brandeis University, Modernization from the Other Shore: American Intellectuals and the Romance of Russian Development, p. 13-14)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Considering questions of economic progress and cultural difference in early twenty-first century America takes on renewed importance yet brings with it new difficulties…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Now that the "specter of communism" celebrated by these revolutionaries has receded, we are in a better position to understand the all-too-present ghosts of cultural difference and modernization.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan is a utopian imagination of technology asserted against the gradual erosion of hope that accompanies the focus on detail. Reclaiming the narrative of technological utopianism does not mean embracing all technologies, but it does prevent the destruction of all human meaning.**</span>
**Leong 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Leong Hang-tat, Ph.D. candidate at the Chinese University of Hong Kong in philosophy, “Ideology and Utopia in Science Fiction”, ProQuest) BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mannheim concludes his analysis of the concept of utopia after the discussion of the four utopian mentalities…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, the breakthrough in achieving technological utopia is shown in the transcendence of Kelvin and Bowman in Solaris and 2001 respectively. </span>

**Our call to imagine what the government might do forces us out of our current subject position — the ability to imagine another role is the foundation of ethical engagement with the Other.**
**EPSTEIN 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mikhail, Associate Professor in the Department of Russian and East Asian Languages and Cultures at Emory University, Transcultural Experiments: Russian and American Models of Creative Communication, p. 164-166</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transcultural theory needs to articulate its own ethics, which can be called an ethics of the imagination…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In distinction from the ethics of commonality, as prescribed in the golden rule, and in distinction from the differential ethics of uniqueness, the third level can be posited as an interferential ethics of multiplied identities and transformational possibilities that is certainly most appealing to the capacities of the imagination.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The policy interpretation of fiat makes ethical engagement with others impossible. We should imagine possibilities rather than legislate commands.**</span>
**EPSTEIN 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mikhail, Associate Professor in the Department of Russian and East Asian Languages and Cultures at Emory University, Transcultural Experiments: Russian and American Models of Creative Communication, p. 166-168)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Though ethics is usually presented as a set of rules and norms of behavior, this does not imply that the contents of ethics should be as normative and prescriptive as its forms are…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus, in addition to the golden rule of commonness, we need a differential and interferential ethics based on imagining others as different from ourselves and imagining ourselves as possibilities for others.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Our act of imagination solves this — the Bering Strait tunnel is the key metaphor to overcome other threats.**</span>
**GERLICZ 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (By Dr. Claude Gaudeau de Gerlicz, Chair, Bioespas, Bioinformatic and Biotechnology Laboratory, France, “Great Projects as Potential Peace Engines,” March 19, [[http://www.upf.org/bering-strait-project/193-bering-strait-research/1682-great-projects-as-potential-peace-engines]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Humanity has always sought to gather around great projects to decrease social tensions or transcend political, ethnic, or religious boundaries…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Construction of a tunnel was to be undertaken by a New Jersey construction company under a 90-year contract.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Every act of imagination has elements of science fiction — the very nature of fiat makes describing the “real world” impossible since every plan is a fictional alternative.**</span>
**FREEDMAN 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Associate Professor of English at Louisiana State University (Carl, “Critical Theory and Science Fiction” Wesleyan University Press, University Press of London, 20-22) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is a priori likely that most texts display the activity of numerous different genres, and that few or no texts can be adequately described in terms of one genre alone…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And it is with this dialectical understanding of genre that we may not reconsider the apparently difficult cases of Brecht, on the one hand, and //Star Wars// on the other.</span>

**Traditional conceptions of government fiat are also fiction, they simply present themselves as fact—fiat misrepresents the process of government decision-making, which means it’s neither educational nor predictable**
**CLAUDE 1988**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Inis, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia, States and the Global System, pages 18-20)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This view of the state as an institutional monolith is fostered by the notion of sovereignty, which calls up the image of the monarch, presiding over his kingdom…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We can hardly dispense with the convenient notion that Pakistan claims, Cuba promises, and Italy insists, and we cannot well abandon the formal position that governments speak for and act on behalf of their states, but it is essential that we bear constantly in mind the reality that governments are never fully in charge and never achieve the unity, purposefulness and discipline that theory attributes to them–and that they sometimes claim.</span>

**Thinking about linear policymaking fails to account for the complex realities of the real world--prediction is impossible**
**Sa 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either a virtuous cycle or a vicious cycle...</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There could be a variety of reasons for this inaccuracy in prediction, but one certain reason is that policies themselves are intrinsically governed by uncertainty, complexity and chaos in policies that produce many different outcomes though they are faced with the same initial internal states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Our model of fiat is better for policymaking — we should imagine alternative worlds even if they’re technically impossible, which means you should vote aff even if the Bering Strait tunnel is impossible.**</span>
**LIPPARD 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Sr. Security Product Manager for Global Crossing and a Ph.D. student in Human and Social Dimensions of Science and Technology at Arizona State University (April 29, Jim, “ Science fiction scenarios and public engagement with science ” __[[http://lippard.blogspot.com/2010/04/science-fiction-scenarios-and-public.html]]__)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Science fiction has been a popular genre at least since Jules Verne’s 19th century work, and arguably longer still…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Miller and Bennett, however, argue otherwise--that not only is science fiction useful for thinking about longer-term consequences, but that the parts about the people--how technologies actually fit into society--are just as, if not more important than the ideas about the technologies themselves.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Our act of imagination shapes world politics — representations create the world and are inextricably linked to policy.** </span>
**WELDES 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Lecturer, Bristol University; PhD (Minn) (Jutta, “Popular culture, science fiction, and world politics: exploring inter textual relations” in “To seek out new worlds: science fiction and world politics” ed. Weldes, Palgrave Macmillan 2003, 12-13) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But this is at best a partial understanding of the relationship between representation and “the real.”…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Based as they are on such assumptions, our analyses have more in common with Cynthia Weber’s use of popular film to “access what IR theory says, how it plots its story, and how all this together gives us a particular vision of the world” (2001: 132, emphasis added).</span>

=**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">NEG:</span>**= 
===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Topicality:</span>**=== 
====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Interpretations:</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-size: 120%;">Transportation Infrastructure:</span>===== 

======<span style="font-size: 15.555556297302246px;">Generic:</span>====== 

**Transportation infrastructure is roads, bridges, mass transit, inland waterways, ports, airports, air traffic control, and rails.**
**The White House 11** The American Jobs Act
Office of the Press Secretary, For Immediate Release September 12, 2011, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf

(9) INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT-…
(iv) Energy efficiency enhancements for buildings, including public and commercial buildings.

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Excludes Vehicles:</span>====== 

**Vehicles are a distinct field - “Infrastructure” is exclusively transportation networks.**
**CSFT 6** (“Aboard Transportation”, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)

Transportation…
3. Operations – They are the control of the whole transport system including traffic lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.

**Vehicles aren’t T**
**GC 12** (Global Cargo & Commodities Limited, “Haulage & Transport”, http://www.globalcargogh.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=44&Itemid=132)

The field of transport has several aspects; …
Policies, such as how to finance the system (for e.g. the use of tolls or gasoline taxes) may be considered part of the operations.

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Excludes Mass Transit:</span>====== 

**Transportation infrastructure consists of roads, bridges, airports, ports and rail lines – excludes mass transit systems**
**Alshawi 09**, 11/20/2009 (Mustafa – chairman of the Iraq Institute for Economic Reforms, and Associate Dean of Research at the University of Salford, Concept and Background to Public Private Partnership (PPP)/Private Finance Initiative (PFI): UK Experience, p. 1)

1 Infrastructure is defined as transportation infrastructure (roads, bridges, airports, ports, rail lines); communications infrastructure; housing; and electricity generation and distribution. Infrastructure projects can be <span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif;">“</span>mega projects<span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif;">”</span> (dams, coast-to<span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif;">‐</span>coast highways, mega<span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ 明朝',serif;">‐</span>ports, large power plants) or much smaller projects that can include communication franchises or limited highway spurs.

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Excludes Military:</span>====== 

**Infrastructure spending excludes military spending**
**National Infrastructure Improvement Act 07** (National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007 – Passed by the Senate, http://uspolitics.about.com/od/legislation/l/bl_s775.htm)

(4) INFRASTRUCTURE-…
(x) a solid waste disposal facility.

**Transportation infrastructure excludes military spending**
**Musick 10** (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)

Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources: transportation and water…
Examples of excluded spending are federal outlays for homeland security (which are especially pertinent to aviation), law enforcement and military functions (such as those carried out by the Coast Guard), and cleanup operations (such as those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Excludes Energy:</span>====== 

**Energy systems are regulated utilities, not “transportation infrastructure” – key to define types of investment.**
**Quadrant Real Estate 7** <span style="font-size: 70%;">(Real Estate Investors, “Global Diversified Infrastructure Fund of Funds”, http://www.quadrantrealestateadvisors.com/investments/public/uploads/documents%5CGlobal%20Diversified%20Infrastructure%20Fund%20of%20Funds.pdf)</span>

II. Defining Infrastructure Assets
Such assets include schools, prisons, hospitals, parks, and others.

======<span style="font-size: 130%;">Excludes Pipelines:</span>====== 

**Pipelines are explicitly excluded when defining “transportation infrastructure”.**
**DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 10** (United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, 9-23, http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110. pdf)

Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure..
For purposes of the Infrastructure Performance Index it is considered an element of energy infrastructure.

======<span style="font-size: 130%;">Underlying Structures:</span>====== 

**Transportation infrastructure must be underlying structures not accessories**
**Trimbath 11** (Susanne, US Chamber.com [website of the US Chamber of Commerce], former Senior Research Economist in the Capital Market Studies at the Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce, PhD in economics from NYU, 2011, “Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way,” http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf, alp)

The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce for the infrastructure performance index project presents a model for developing the way forward…
The structures are: • Transit • Highways • Airports • Railways • Waterways (Ports) • Intermodal Links

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Investment:</span>===== 

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Capital Expenditure:</span>====== 

**Infrastructure investment is direct capital expenditure**
**CBO 09** (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, Congressional Budget Office October 2009, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf)

In this analysis, investment in infrastructure is defined as capital spending on transportation, utilities (for example, water and power supply), environmental projects, and schools…
Capital spending under this study’s definition consists of investment in physical capital, such as structures and facilities, rather than intangible capital, which is formed by spending on educational programs or on research and development.

======<span style="font-size: 120%;">Excludes Maintenance:</span>====== 

**Only capital expenditure is topical and requires new projects, not maintaining current capabilities.**
**Becker 8 (**Werner, Deutsche Bank Research, et al., “Improving the Quality of Public Finances – The Road Ahead”, 2-5, http://www.dbresearch.com/PROD/DBR_INTERNET_EN-PROD/PROD0000000000220498.PDF)

With regard to the effects of public spending on growth, a distinction is traditionally made between current government consumption expenditure (on, say, the compensation of government employees) and capital expenditure geared to the future (on infrastructural projects such as transport, utility supply and communications systems)…
A problem here is the relatively broad definition of public investment.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Its:</span>===== 


‘**Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms 05**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership.
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
**Warner 11** – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)

‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program. ‘(6) TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM- The term ‘transportation program’ means a plan or strategy prepared by a metropolitan planning organization or a State for transportation systems and facilities in the metropolitan planning area or the State, including a transportation plan, transportation improvement program, statewide transportation plan, or statewide transportation improvement program developed under section 5303 or 5304 of this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">United States:</span>===== 


**The United States refers to the 48 conterminous states in North America and Alaska and Hawaii**
**Merriam-Webster Encyclopedia No Date** (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/united%20states)

United States: Country, North America. It comprises 48 conterminous states occupying the mid-continent, Alaska at the northwestern extreme of North America, and the island state of Hawaii in the mid-Pacific Ocean…
The U.S. is a federal republic with two legislative houses; its head of state and government is the president.

====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Standards:</span>==== 
=====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Limits Good:</span>===== 

**Limits are good - key to research and debate participation, that solves their education claims.**
**Rowland 84** (Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 53-54)

The first major problem identified by the work group as relating to topic selection is the decline in participation in the National Debate Tournament (NDT) policy debate…
In this view, it is the competitive imbalance resulting from the use of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Plan Flaw:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

“**Government” when capitalized means only the executive branch**
**Merriam-Webster No Date** (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/government)

Definition of GOVERNMENT…
(2) : administration 4b

**Small mistakes have huge legislative consequences-**
**Heath 06** [Brad, USA Today, 11-21-06, http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2006-11-20-typo-problems_x.htm]

In the legislative world, such small errors, while uncommon, can carry expensive consequences. In a few cases around the nation this year, typos and other blunders have redirected millions of tax dollars or threatened to invalidate new laws.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Framework:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**“Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum**
**Army Officer School 04** (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)

The colon introduces the following:…
That this council petition the mayor.

**And, “United States federal government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means**
**Ericson 03** (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy…
What you agree to do, then, when you accept the affirmative side in such a debate is to offer sufficient and compelling reasons for an audience to perform the future action that you propose.

**Rules of dialogue are key – bad interpretations make the dialogue terrible even if it’s technically a dialogue**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Bostad 4** <span style="font-size: 80%;">http://www.flt.uae.ac.ma/elhirech/baktine/140391690X%20-%20-%20Bakhtinian%20Perspectives%20on%20Language%20and%20Culture~%20Meaning%20in%20Language,%20Art%20and%20New%20.pdfFinn Bostad is Associate Professor of Applied Linguistics at The NorwegianUniversity of Science and Technology in the field of human communication and new technology. He has run and worked on national and university </span><span style="font-size: 80%; line-height: 1.5;">projects on meaning-making in Internet environments, published internationally on electronic discourse, and supervised a research programme on ICT and learning at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. He is currently researching multimedia semiotics.</span></span>
Very often a dialogue exists only if the persons involved in the communication act observe and respect some rules of dialogism, and some of these main ‘rules’ or principles may be a mutual trust or reciprocity (Rommetveit 1992), a sharing of power and comprehension that gives everybody an equal opportunity to have his or her voice heard…
In this near ideal situation there is no real centre of power, but a sharing of it.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Spending DA:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic growth now – stock markets and manufacturing are near record highs while consumer spending is still growing.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pringle 3/1 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sarah Pringle, BloombergBusinessweek, “U.S. Stocks Climb as Economic Data Offset Spending Cuts”, 3/1/13, http://www.businessweek.com/news/2013-03-01/u-dot-s-dot-stock-index-futures-drop-as-spending-cuts-loom)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. stocks rose, erasing earlier losses in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as better-than- estimated data on consumer confidence and manufacturing offset concerns about federal spending cuts…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">All 10 members advanced, as Delta Air Lines Inc. jumped 3.9 percent to $14.82 and United Continental Holdings Inc. gained 2.5 percent to $27.38, a two-year record high.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Federal deficit spending on expensive projects like the plan crushes economic growth. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Roe 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Phil, member of the Education and Workforce Committee and Representative from Tennessee, “Cut, cap and balance: A fight toward fiscal responsibility,” 5-18, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05/navy_plebes_scale_herndon_monu.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">On Monday, the United States reached the legal limit of its borrowing authority – further evidence that out-of-control spending is a matter of national security…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It’s clear that if we fail to stop the spending spree, our nation will face economic collapse in the long-term.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, cost overruns mean that infrastructure spending is not a valuable economic investment</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">De Rugy 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Her primary research interests include the U.S. economy, federal budget, homeland security, taxation, tax competition, and financial privacy issues. Her popular weekly charts, published by the Mercatus Center, address economic issues ranging from lessons on creating sustainable economic growth to the implications of government tax and fiscal policies.¶ She has testified numerous times in front of Congress on the effects of fiscal stimulus, debt and deficits, and regulation on the economy. (Veronique, “Infrastructure Spending is A Bad Bet”, National Review, Sep 09, 2011 http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/276636/why-infrastructure-spending-bad-bet-veronique-de-rugy</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Veronique de Rugy testified before the Joint Economic Committee today about whether infrastructure spending is a good investment for job creation…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A better alternative to federally funded projects could be private-public partnerships, privatization, or simple devolution to the states.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Link - HSR:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">High Speed Rail is absurdly expensive – delays and revisions in planning mean that initial cost estimates will be quadrupled. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reisman 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Will, “SF Examiner Staff Writer, High-speed rail cost increase latest in public works projects,” 1-8-12, http://www.sfexaminer.com/local/transportation/2012/01/high-speed-rail-cost-increase-latest-public-works-projects)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Overpromising and underdelivering have become the hallmark of California’s public works projects, and the latest plan to engage in this dubious practice is the state’s high-speed rail system…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“If there is an idea, no one wants to overestimate the cost, because the more expensive it becomes, the less likely there will be support,” Knox White said.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Elections DA:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**Obama will win now but could still lose key states**
**Witt 9/5** <span style="font-size: 80%;">[Ryan, Examiner.com, “An updated look at the 2012 Electoral College map with polls,” 9/5/2012, [[http://www.examiner.com/article/an-updated-look-at-the-2012-electoral-college-map-with-polls-7]]]</span>

Hundreds of millions of Americans will cast their ballots this November, but the votes that matter the most are cast by members of the Electoral College months later…


**Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support**
**Orski ‘12**<span style="font-size: 80%;"> (Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears)</span>

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge...
Potholes are rare, transit buses and trains seldom break down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

**Even tiny shifts matter – our link is low threshold and linear**
**Silver 12** <span style="font-size: 80%;"> (Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical modelshttp://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/)</span>

The last thing to remember is that when an election is quite close, it does not take very much to shift the race from one candidate being a 60/40 favorite to it being about even...
While, on the one hand, it is good not to overreact to new data at this early stage of the race, it is also worth remembering that even a one-point shift in a president’s approval ratings, or a modest change in the economic forecasts, can move a president’s re-election odds at the margin.

**GOP win makes strikes against Iran inevitable**
**Dilek 11** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran”, 9/20/11, [[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/]])</span>

Prepare yourself my fellow Americans...
Maybe it is about time the GOP wakes up to the new realities of the 21st Century foreign policy making and learn that being a ‘hawk’ is not always the right answer to every international challenge.

**Iran strikes cause multiple scenarios for nuclear war, CBW use and terrorist attacks.**
**Russell 09** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)</span>

Iran’s response to what would initially start as a sustained stand-off bombardment (Desert Fox Heavy) could take a number of different forms that might lead to escalation by the United States and Israel, surrounding states, and non-state actors...
In turn, such a nuclear strike would almost certainly prompt an Israeli and U.S. massive response – a potential “Armageddon” scenario.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Immigration Ptx:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Immigration reform will pass now, but with a fight in Congress. The top-down approach will inevitably lead to political dispute.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dinan & Howell 2/27</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Dinan and Tom Howell Jr February 27, 2013 Washington Times http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/feb/27/house-refuses-to-rush-on-illegals/?utm_source=RSS_Feed&utm_medium=RSS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee laid out a go-slow approach on immigration Wednesday, saying he doesn’t think having President Obama write a bill and demand that Congress vote on it would be successful…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Under current law, illegal immigrants are supposed to return to their home countries and are barred from re-entering the U.S. for up to 10 years.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital is key but plan kills it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shifter 12-</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adjunct Professor of Latin American Studies @ Georgetown, President of Inter-American Dialogue, member of the Council on Foreign Relations [Michael, Inter-American Dialogue, “Will Obama Kick the Can Down the Road,” 12/27/2012, http://www.thedialogue.org/page.cfm?pageID=32&pubID=3186]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Not surprisingly, Obama has been explicit that reforming the US’s shameful and broken immigration system will be a top priority in his second term…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">But a decision to pursue that measure -- though desperately needed -- would take away energy and time from other priorities like immigration.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation is uniquely contentious</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Freemark 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Yonah Freemark, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist, 1/25/11, “Understanding the Republican Party’s Reluctance to Invest in Transit Infrastructure,” http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2011/01/25/understanding-the-republican-partys-reluctance-to-invest-in-transit-infrastructure/, Accessed 7/9/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conservatives in Congress threaten to shut down funding for transit construction projects and investments in intercity rail…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">And that’s in Staten Island, hardly a bastion of urbanism.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Competitiveness Module:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Reform key to competitiveness—it’s reverse causal</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Guzzi 13</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President and CEO Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce [Paul, The Boston Globe, “Immigration reforms are key to winning the global race for talent,” 1/8/2013, http://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2013/01/08/podium-education/FOH9rk3bsRWETK9zXJZnYJ/story.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US immigration policy has proven inadequate to address the needs of companies competing in a globalized, 21st century economy…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Following up on the recommendations of the Chamber’s Global Talent Index last year, we believe the time is right for immigration reform that will improve employers’ ability to access a deeper talent pool and create pathways for more entrepreneurs to launch businesses in this country.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Solves great power nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Zalmay Khalilzad, Professor of polisci @ Columbia, was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Historically, Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Latin Relations Module:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reform solves US-Latin American relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Haugaard 13</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Executive Director, Latin America Working Group [Lisa, Huffington Post, “Ten New Year’s Resolutions for U.S. Policy Towards Latin America,” 1/4/2013, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lisa-haugaard/latin-america-united-states-relations_b_2409247.html</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Democrats and Republicans alike should heed the message delivered by the Latino vote in 2012 and provide a path to citizenship for the eleven million people living in the shadows in the United States and build a flexible, sensible legal immigration system for the future…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And right now, the Obama administration should protect the rights of migrants and border communities by stopping deportation practices that send migrants back to dangerous areas to be preyed upon by cartels, and by ensuring U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents are held accountable for abuses.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Relations solve proliferation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shifter 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President, Inter-American Dialogue Center [Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America, An Inter-American Dialogue Policy Report, April 2012 p. 16]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In addition to economic and financial matters, Brazil and other Latin American nations are assuming enhanced roles on an array of global political, environmental, and security issues…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Brazil could play a pivotal role.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kroenig 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Assistant Professor @ Georgetown University [Matthew, npr, “The History of Proliferation Optimism: Does It Have A Future?” 5/26/2012, http://www.npolicy.org/article.php?aid=1182andtid=30]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The greatest threat posed by the spread of nuclear weapons is nuclear war…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A nuclear exchange between the two superpowers during the Cold War could have arguably resulted in human extinction and a nuclear exchange between states with smaller nuclear arsenals, such as India and Pakistan, could still result in millions of deaths and casualties, billions of dollars of economic devastation, environmental degradation, and a parade of other horrors.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">States CP:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**TEXT: The fifty states and all relevant territories of the United States should [plan].**

**States are the best option to fund and manage transportation infrastructure; they have the capability to innovate and finance facilities better.**
**Edwards 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chris, Director of tax policy studies-Cato Institute, “Federal Infrastructure Investment”, http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. economy needs infrastructure, but state and local governments and the private sector are generally the best places to fund and manage it…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Other states could wait and see how California's system was performing before putting their own taxpayers on the hook.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">GLADIS CP:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**TEXT: The United States federal government should offer to negotiate the creation and enforcement of regulations and standards for the implementation of a Global Awareness Data Extraction International Satellite constellation with any other interested space-faring nations as per our solvency advocate. We’ll clarify.**

**That solves case**
**Marion 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rick Earles Marion, published 2010, CANEUS USA and CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A good candidate for our “ideal concept”, or at least one that represents a very good starting point, is the GLADIS concept from the United States Navy, Naval Research Laboratory…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellites are designed for at least three years on orbit.</span>

**The net benefit is backlash –**
**International cooperation over port security is happening now – but the plan’s expansion of the US lead role causes backlash and turns the case.**
**Cruise and Grillot 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca Cruise and Suzette Grillot, April 12th, 2007, University of Oklahoma, USA, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://convention3.allacademic.com/one/www/research/index.php?cmd=www_search&offset=0&limit=5&multi_search_search_mode=publication&multi_search_publication_fulltext_mod=fulltext&textfield_submit=true&search_module=multi_search&search=Search&search_field=title_idx&fulltext_search=%3Cb%3EProtecting+our+Ports%3A+Efforts+to+Enhance+International+Security+Cooperation%3C%2Fb%3E|Protecting our Ports: Efforts to Enhance International Security Cooperation]]</span>,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://convention3.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/9/9/2/5/p199255_index.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Since the events of 9/11/01, there has been much discussion of the pores nature of US boarders and ports of entry…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, we hope to be able to address the implications of an international port security regime and to make some policy prescriptions.</span>

**Hegemony without international support causes prolif, terrorism, and turns case.**
**Ikenberry 2** <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however…</span>
But history shows that powerful states tend to trigger self-encirclement by their own overestimation of their power.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">"Fast Enough" CP:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a transnational “fast enough rail” infrastructure as per our solvency advocate.**

**Solves case and avoids the disad – better-than-average rails solve best**
**Gulliver 11** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Gulliver Business Travel, some blog on The Economist, “How fast is fast enough?” July 3rd, 2011, http://www.economist.com/blogs/gulliver/2011/07/high-speed-rail</span>

Yes, bullet trains speeding at 180 mph [290 kph] or more from major city to major city are great for business execs in a hurry and on an expense account…
Improving frequency of service could also help, Mr Longman argues.

=====<span style="font-size: 140%;">AT - Perm:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan and CP are functionally distinct – literature compares the CP with high-speed rail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Longman 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Phillip Longman, senior fellow at the Washington Monthly and the New America foundation, “The Case for Not-Quite-So-High-Speed Rail,” July/August 2011, http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/julyaugust_2011/features/the_case_for_notquite_sohighsp030492.php?page=1</span>

Because of its more circuitous route and local stops, and because passenger trains on the Rhine Valley line also have to share tracks with many freight trains, these trains are slower than those on the new high-speed line…
By European or Asian standards, this service doesn’t qualify as high-speed rail, but it is faster on average than most American railways, and frequent enough to provide[s] vital connectivity throughout the Rhine Valley.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">State PIC:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">TEXT (vs. JARC): </span>****<span style="font-size: 90%;">Josh and I advocate that the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States receives its necessary investment.</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 90%;">The net benefit is autonomy – The affirmative’s focus on what the USFG should do erases all questions about what we, as individuals, should do—this externalization of responsibility makes effective solutions to violence impossible as we constantly reify violent actions and values in our daily lives. Without questioning our individual culpability we cannot empower ourselves to prevent the harms.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Kappeler 95** [Susanna, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: the Politics of Personal Behavior, pg. 10-11]</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">‘We are the war’ does not mean that the responsibility for a war is shared collectively and diffusely by an entire society—which would be equivalent to exonerating warlords and politicians and profiteers or, as Ulrich Beck says, upholding the notion of collective irresponsibility, where people are no longer held responsible for their actions, and where the conception of universal responsibility becomes the equivalent of a universal acquittal…</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">We share in the responsibility for this war and its violence in the way we let them grow inside us, that is, in the way we shape ‘our feelings, our relationships, our values’ according to the structures and the values of war and violence. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 90%;">National and institutional forms of emancipation are part of the ordering world. Their institutionalized arguments conceptually limit the possibilities for emancipation into voices of dissent that can be coopted and made into this very same mechanisms of ordering. Mirroring the institutions only suppresses the imagination.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">**Nayar 99** – Jayan, school of law at the University of Warwick, 9 Transnat’l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599, lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">There are now, on one level, high degrees of "professionalization" and "globalization" of "social activism."..</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;"> How much of the continuing violence within the misorderings of the world has followed from this experience? </span>

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Borders PIC:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**TEXT (vs. Critical Bering Strait): Josh and I ask you to imagine a substantial increase in transportation infrastructure necessary to complete a fixed-link global crossing. We’ll clarify.**

**Drawing of borders is a Eurocentric practice that sets some as diametrically opposed to others and makes possible colonialism.**
**Shapiro 97**, (Michael professor of political science at university of HI, 1997 “Violent Cartographies” p.195-7)

Apart from its immediate legitimation for colonization, Mill’s interpretive complicity with the European “advance” exemplifies more generally the interrelationship of spatial practices and ethical sensibility…
It is time to unread the old map and begin the process of writing another one, a process without limit.

**Vote negative to question the logic of borders. Rather than participate in the affirmative’s acceptance of violent cartographies, we call on you to disrupt the violence they make possible.**
**Shapiro 97**, (Michael professor of political science at university of HI, 1997 “Violent Cartographies” p.195-7)

Michel Foucault was calling for such intervention when he noted that the purpose of critical analysis is to question, not deepen, existing structures of intelligibility…
Most significantly, the encounter produces a disruption of the totalizing conceptions that have governed contemporary societies—for example, the illusion that they are unproblematically consolidated and that they have quelled recalcitrant subjectivities.

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Capitalism K:</span>**=== 
=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**The configuration of infrastructure is a key point of contestation of global capital – expansion of infrastructure creates the condition of possibility for rapid capital accumulation**
**Derickson 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Ph.D in Geography and Womens Studies (Kate Driscoll, “NEOLIBERALISM AND THE POLITICS OF LAND USE IN POST-KATRINA MISSISSIPPI”, Dissertation, The Pennsylvania State University The Graduate School College of Earth and Mineral Science https://etda.libraries.psu.edu/paper/11630/7208 SW)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Major reconfigurations of the built environment, as moments of creative destruction, can provide a particularly telling window into neoliberal capitalist social relations…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus, struggles over the built environment are a relevant but under-explored sphere for understanding the logic of capital accumulation in a given period insofar as they encompasses, to a degree, the evolving relationship between the state, civil society and capital.</span>

**Capitalism causes extinction and destroys value to life**
**Simonovic 7** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Ljubodrag, Ph.D. in Philosophy; M.A. in Law; author of seven books, 2007, A New World is Possible, “Basis of contemporary critical theory of capitalism.”] Gender edited</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The final stage of a mortal combat between [hu]mankind and capitalism is in progress…</span>
Instead of the "withering away" (Engels) of institutions of the capitalist society, the withering away of life is taking place.

**Our alternative is to vote negative to reject the affirmative as a refusal to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations—avoids transition wars**
**Herod 4** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Social Activist since 1968, owns an awesome website, Attended Columbia University and spent a year abroad at the University of Beirut (Lebanon)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, Getting Free, 2004, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, a strategy for destroying capitalism…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Otherwise we are doomed to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Role of the Ballot - Personal Politics:</span>===== 


**The alternative depends on you – the refusal to continue the affirmative’s call for institutional change can create a metaphysical mutation bringing efficacy to our call for a new politics, free of the logic of capital.**
**Monbiot 04** (George Monbiot, Professor of Philosophy at Bristol and Professor of Politics at Keele. Author, columnist, and political activist. “Manifesto for a New World Order.” p. 260)

All political systems are ephemeral, and we can expect any new means of governance we design to collapse eventually and be succeeded by others, perhaps even to age as rapidly as the deceased systems of the past century or so…
It depends on your preparedness to abandon your attachment to the old world and start thinking like a citizen of the new; to exchange your security for liberty, your comfort for elation. It depends on your willingness to act.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Role of the Ballot - Ethics:</span>===== 

**The role of the ballot is to act on your a-priori ethical obligation to reject capitalism.**
**Zizek & Daly 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-(Slavoj, PhD in Philosophy @ the University of Ljubljana, Senior Research in Sociology @ the University of Ljubljana, Professor of Philosophy and Psychoanalysis @ the European Graduate School, has been a visiting professor @ University of Chicago, Columbia University, Princeton, University of London, and NYU, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, and Glyn, has been a Professor @ Essex University and Manchester University, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol and recognize that our ethico-political responsibility is to confront the constitutive violence of today’s global capitalism and its obscene naturalization / anonymization of the millions who are subjugated by it throughout the world…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While it is perfectly true that universalism can never become Universal (it will always require a hegemonic-particular embodiment in order to have any meaning), what is novel about Zizek’s universalism is that it would not attempt to conceal this fact or reduce the status of the abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Framework - Pedagogy:</span>===== 

**Debate is a pedagogical activity where the plan obviously never happens—fiat is illusory—that means the role of the judge is to be a critical intellectual deciding between competing political strategies. The role of the ballot is to assess which team best critically and methodologically destroys capitalism**
**Giroux 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Henry, Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department, “Beyond the Politics of the Big Lie: The Education Deficit and the New Authoritarianism” June 6, 2012 [[http://truth-out.org/opinion/item/9865-beyond-the-politics-of-the-big-lie-the-education-deficit-and-the-new-authoritarianism]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While a change in consciousness does not guarantee a change in either one's politics or society, it is a crucial precondition for connecting what it means to think otherwise to conditions that make it possible to act otherwise…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Surviving the current education deficit will depend on progressives using history, memory and knowledge not only to reconnect intellectuals to the everyday needs of ordinary people, but also to jumpstart social movements by making education central to organized politics and the quest for a radical democracy.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Framework - Discussion Brackets:</span>===== 


**Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed.**
**Meszaros 89**(Istvan, Prof Emeritus of Philosophy @ U of SussexThe Power of Ideology, p 232-234 )

Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality – the self-proclaimed Wertfreiheit or value neutrality of so-called ‘rigorous social science’ – stronger than in the field of methodology…
Thus, more than ever before, the task of ideological demystification is inseparable from the investigation of the complex dialectical relationship between methods and values which no social theory or philosophy can escape.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Link - Incorporation/Solving Poverty:</span>===== 


**The aff is just a shift from the coercive strategy of capitalist exclusion to the incorporative strategy for furthering capital production by subsidizing elements of basic consumption and creating new avenues of exploitation. “Integration” is the ruse of choice for elites to ensure that the underprivileged think that they have dignity and rights, when really they are only being abused for their labor.**
**Gough et al 6** (James, senior lecturer in town and regional planning at Sheffield university, Aram Eisenschitz, senior lecturer in the school of health and social science at Middlesex university, Andrew McCulloch, senior lecturer at northumbria university, Spaces of Social Exclusion, p. 65)

Despite these evasions, active policies to manage the poor and poverty have been implemented since the sixteenth century…
The state, having initially appeared as a saviour of the poor's living standards, turned out to be remote and controlling.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Link - Security:</span>===== 

<span style="color: #222222;">**The securitization of the 1AC is the bourgeois attempt to push forward the ultimate capitalist agenda to construct threats in order to justify conservatism** </span>
**Neocleous 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Professor of Critique of Political Economy @ Brunel University [Mark,</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">“Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government, Published 2008]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We are often and rightly told that security is intimately associated with the rise of the modem state…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In other words, if security is the supreme concept of bourgeois society it is equally the supreme concept of liberal ideology.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Link - State:</span>===== 

**Demands on the state are rooted in a nationalist identification with the USFG, which we critique.**
**Herod 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October 2001, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Let's take another example…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If they would reject nationalism altogether, and states and governments, they could begin to see another way. </span>

**Merely being reactive to US policy lets the war-mongers set the agenda—our strategy must directly fight the state and capitalism, not merely get the government to change its policy.**
**Herod 1** (James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, 2001, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)

The 'peace now' protesters strike a similar stance…
Given who the government is, who it serves (capital, the rich), and what its interests and priorities are, it can't change its policies into those favored by progressives, not and survive as an imperial power that is.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Link - Space Militarization:</span>===== 

**Space weaponization empowers the elites of capitalism**
**Cooper 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brent, Faculty @ University of British Columbia, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lost in Space: a Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March, http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization#, JM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The second theoretical argument views space weaponization as a capitalist process that maintains and promotes itself through the enrichment of the global elite class…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The doctrine of space weaponization, therefore, in a classical Marxist sense, is an essential part of a continuing process of capital accumulation.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - Death/Genocide</span>===== 

**Capitalism causes incalculable deaths—nothing can outweigh**
**Herod 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Social Activist since 1968, owns an awesome website, Attended Columbia University and spent a year abroad at the University of Beirut (Lebanon)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, 2007, “Getting Free” Pg. 22-23)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We must never forget that we are at war, however, and that we have been for five hundred years…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is a terrible enemy we face.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - Econ Collapse:</span>===== 

**Capitalism causes inevitable crashes and conflict—economic meltdown would result in new controls on international capital.**
**Mead 97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter Russell, Henry Kissinger Senior Fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Roller-Coaster Capitalism: Creative Destruction at Work”, __Foreign Affairs__, January/February, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/19970101fareviewessay3746/walter-russell-mead/roller-coaster-capitalism-creative-destruction-at-work.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The more creative capitalism becomes -- the faster productivity rises, the more new technology transforms the way we work -- the more destructive it becomes…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Vast public investment projects will attempt to replace the tapped-out power of individual consumers to buy, reviving markets and growth and reducing unemployment by the creation of new demand through public</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - Nuclear War:</span>===== 

**Capitalism makes mass nuclear annihilation inevitable.**
**Webb 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sam Webb, National Chairman, Communist Party USA. “War, Capitalism, and George W. Bush.” 4-20-04. http://www.pww.org/article/view/ 4967/1/207/O)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capitalism was never a warm, cuddly, stable social system…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whether that occurs depends in large measure on the outcome of political struggle within and between classes and social movements at the national and international level.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - Racism</span>===== 


**The capitalist profit motive is the root cause of social discrimination, racism, and sexism.**
**Brown 5** (Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan, 05/13/2005, http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm)

The capitalist class owns the factories, the banks, and transportation-the means of production and distribution…
Violence against women in the home and in society at large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - Structural Violence:</span>===== 

**Structural violence outweighs everything**
**Abu-Jamal 98-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mumia, award winning Pennsylvania journalist, quotes James Gilligan, Professor at Harvard/NYU, “A quiet and deadly violence”, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The deadliest form of violence is poverty…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Such systems must pass away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Impact - VTL:</span>===== 


**No value to life under capitalism**
**Dillon 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Dillon, University of Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory Vol. 27, No. 2, Aprill 1999, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Otherness is born(e) within the self as an integral part of itself and in such a way that it always remains an inherent stranger to itself…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That duty, as with the advent of another Justice, is integral to the lack constitutive of the human way of being.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Alt is Utopian:</span>===== 


**Regardless of our alternative’s solvency, we have an ethical obligation to reject capitalism – our utopian thinking is key to resistance.**
**Marsh 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (james l, critique, action, and liberation p. 334-335)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Denial of utopia mutilates freedom and reason…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The prevailing rationality is profoundly irrational. </span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - No Alternative:</span>===== 


**There is only no alternative if we think under capital and accept it—accepting this means accepting all capitalism’s values and the destruction that follows**
**Meszaros 7** (Istvan, Prof Emeritus of Philosophy @ U of Sussex, “The Only Viable Economy” The Monthly Review Vol. 58.11 April JF)

It is not at all accidental or surprising that the proposition of “there is no alternative” occupies such a prominent place in the socioeconomic and political conceptions formulated from capital’s standpoint…
Namely, without making society—the society of freely associated individuals—rule over wealth, redefining at the same time also their relation to time and to the kind of use to which the products of human labor are put.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Cap Sustainable:</span>===== 


**Capitalism is ecologically and economically unsustainable – the system accelerates global crisis**
**Li 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Department of Economics, University of Utah (Minqi,“The End of the “End of History”: The Structural Crisis of Capitalism and the Fate of Humanity”, Science & Society, Vol. 74, Symposium: Capitalism and Crisis in the 21st Century, pp. 290-305, http://www.econ.utah.edu/~mli/Economics%207004/Li_The%20End%20of%20the%20End%20of%20History.pdf SW)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In 2001, the U. S. stock market bubble started to collapse, after years of “new economy” boom…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Now, not only has resources depletion reached an advanced stage, but the world has also virtually run out of space for any further environmental pollution.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Cap Solves Science:</span>===== 


**Capitalism inhibits scientific development—the alternative solves**
**Palecek 9** (Mike, writer, “Capitalism Versus Science” http://www.marxist.com/capitalism-versus-science.htm )

We are constantly bombarded with the myth that capitalism drives innovation, technology, and scientific advancement…
The only thing that stands in our way is capitalism.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Gibson-Graham:</span>===== 

**Gibson-Graham’s method surrenders to capitalism and allows the alt to become co-opted**
**Poitevin 1** (Rene, sociology@NYU, Socialist Reivew, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891/?tag=mantle_skin;content, accessed: 30 June 2011)

I begin with the postmodern (mis)appropriation of Althusser's notion of "overdetermination," namely the intuition that reality is so complex that it is better understood as a multicausal process rather than as a "structural" or systemic mechanism, as in the traditional Marxist explanation of capitalism...
I will make clear that what ultimately gives internal consistency to many of the critiques of postmodern and post-Marxist theorists is a profound distortion and co-optation of the most critical, unique, and politically mobilizing features of Marxist theory, on one hand, combined with a renaturalization of a capitalism predicated on liberal notions of social and economic reform, on the other.

**Gibson-Graham construct a straw person in order to reject Marxism, making a revolution impossible**
**Poitevin 1** (Rene, sociology@NYU, Socialist Reivew, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891/?tag=mantle_skin;content, accessed: 30 June 2011)

The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It) begs another question: Who are they going after?...
What is left out of their quasi-humorous dismissal of Marxism is the complicity of such a straw man in the long history of red-baiting and anti-Marxist repression in this country and around the world.

**Gibson-Graham’s discursive focus is epistemologically flawed and dooms their movement to failure**
**Poitevin 1** (Rene, sociology@NYU, Socialist Reivew, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891/?tag=mantle_skin;content, accessed: 30 June 2011)

A third feature of J.K. Gibson-Graham's work, in particular, and of the whole radical democracy tradition, in general, is its post-structuralist extremism…
Even Foucault, the great master of discontinuity, distances himself from such mirror-reversal solutions when theorizing the limits of discourse and accounting for the "divergence, the distances, the oppositions, the differences" that constitute the episteme of a period.33

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Growth Solves Environment:</span>===== 

**Growth cannot continue exponentially – we need to end it now to solve an environmental crisis – tech can’t solve**
**Brent 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– frequent contributor to Countercurrents, expert on population issues (Jason, “Cessation Of Growth: Voluntary And Coercive Population Control,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/brent180711.htm]]</span>, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Since compound/exponential growth is so powerful, both the economy and the population of the world must cease their growth in the very near future…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The concept of obtaining resources from extraterrestrial planets or transferring part of humanity to extraterrestrial planets is a non-workable fallacy.</span>

**The efficiency caused by capitalism increases demand and causes more emissions which destroys the environment - empirical evidence**
**Foster et al 10** (John Bellamy, is editor of Monthly Review and professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Brett Clark, assistant professor of sociology, North Carolina State University, Richard York, co-editor of Organization & Environment and associate professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Monthly Review, “Capitalism and the Curse of Energy Efficiency: The Return of the Jevons Paradox”, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/capitalism-and-the-curse-of-energy-efficiency, July 2, 2012) ALK

Technological optimists have tried to argue that the rebound effect is small, and therefore environmental problems can be solved largely by technological innovation alone, with the efficiency gains translating into lower throughput of energy and materials (dematerialization)…
The only real answer for humanity (including future generations) and the earth as a whole is to alter the social relations of production, to create a system in which efficiency is no longer a curse—a higher system in which equality, human development, community, and sustainability are the explicit goals.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Reformism Good:</span>===== 

**Single-issue movements and reforms of the state can’t solve capitalism**
**Herod 7** (James, Columbia U graduate and political activist, 2007, “Getting Free” Pg. 30 JF)

We cannot destroy capitalism with single-issue campaigns, yet the great bulk of radicals’ energy is spent on these campaigns…
There is one single-issue campaign I can wholeheartedly endorse: the total and permanent eradication of capitalism.

**Reformism fails—we must absolutely reject capitalism**
**Herod 7** (James, Columbia U graduate and political activist, 2007, “Getting Free” Pg. 39-40 JF)

But we must not think that the capitalist world can simply be ignored, in a live-and-let-live attitude, while we try to build new lives elsewhere…
Many people may not be accustomed to thinking about entire systems and social orders, but everyone knows what a lifestyle is, or a way of life, and that is the way we should approach it.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - We Solve Poverty/Racism:</span>===== 

**The Alternative is a pre-requisite to the affirmative, solvency is unattainable absent a rejection of capital, our re-conceptualization works to obscure the underlying causes of poverty and exclusion.**

**Sheilds 9** (Stuart, interested in critical approaches to International Political Economy. PhD in transnational dimension of regime transformation in Eastern Central Europe at Aberystwyth's Department of International Politics, in February 2002, and joined Manchester in September 2003, Spaces of Social Exclusion, http://search.proquest.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/docview/209698594?accountid=12861)

As a trope of contemporary political economy, social exclusion seems indelibly linked to the New Labour project…
This is a book that deserves to be read well beyond the academy - if someone were to slip a copy into Alistair Darling's pocket, perhaps?

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Perm:</span>===== 


**Alt comes first—doing nothing allows us to break with the status quo strategy of intervening without change, and instead risk the impossible**
**Daly 7-[**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Glyn, Lecturer of Politics at Northampton University, “The Materialism of Spirit: Zizek and the Logics of the Political,” International Journal of Zizek Studies, 1(4), 2007, http://www.zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/79/139, AD: 6-22-9]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In this sense our autonomy is at once more precarious and more radical…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A Left politics of subtraction would mean above all standing with the symptomal truths of our age and recognising the way in which its multiculturalism and infra-political engagement are already implicated in, fractalized as part of, the totality of cosmopolitan capitalism and its deliquescence over such issues as global poverty and hunger.</span>

**There can be no compromise – any inclusion of the affirmative is a façade of reformism that only causes capitalism to grow stronger.**
**Kovel 2** (Joel, Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, The Enemy of Nature, p142)

The value-term that subsumes everything into the spell of capital sets going a kind of wheel of accumulation, from production to consumption and back, spinning ever more rapidly as the inertial mass of capital grows, and generating its force field as a spinning magnet generates an electrical field…
For green capital (or 'socially/ecologically responsible investing') exists, by its very capital-nature, essentially to create more value, and this leaches away from the concretely green location to join the great pool, and follows its force field into zones of greater concentration, expanded profitability - and greater ecodestruction.

**Engaging the politics of capitalism causes extinction – there is no middle ground**
**Meszaros 1** (Istvan, prof. emeritus @ Univ. of Sussex, Socialism or Barbarism, pp. 80-81, JM)

Those who talk about the "third way" as the solution to our dilemma, asserting that there can be no room for the revival of a radical mass movement, either want to deceive us by cynically calling their slavish acceptance of the ruling order "the third way," or fail to realize the gravity of the situation, putting their faith in a wishfully non-conflictual positive outcome that has been promised for nearly a century but never approximated even by one inch…
This is why the century in front of us is bound to be the century of "socialism or barbarism."

**Including the plan kills solvency: we must refuse the call to action in order to remain truly open to revolutionary opportunity**
**Zizek 4** (Slavoj, , Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, “Iraq: The Borrowed Kettle” P. 71-73 JF)

The stance of simply condemning the postmodern Left for its accommodation, however, is also false, since one should ask the obvious difficult question: what, in fact, was the alternative?
The only way to lay the foundations for a true, radical change is to withdraw from the compulsion to act, to ‘do nothing’ – thus opening up the space for a different kind of activity.

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Transition Wars:</span>===== 

**The crackdown won’t happen, capital can’t afford to attack its labor – and it would only increase the success of the transition away from the status quo**
**Meszaros 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Istvan, Prof @ U of Sussex, </span>__Beyond Capital__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">P 725-727)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another argument which is often used in favour of permanent accommodation is the threat of extreme authoritarian measures that must be faced by a socialist revolutionary movement…</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It can use violence with success selectively, against limited groups of labour, but not against the socialist movement organized as a revolutionary mass movement.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 150%;">Taoism K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">1NC:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No one knows what is good and bad. The aff’s attempt to craft a perfect world destroys us spiritually – the alternative is to take no action to achieve desired ends</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 1</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia [Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the Taoist classic Huai-nan-tzu, one finds a famous story of a man who suddenly finds himself the unexpected owner of a new horse. ..</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Taoist lesson seems, in this regard, to be the same in each case: things happen, and some things cause us distress because we attach ourselves sentimentally to certain people, objects, and patterns of life; when those people, objects, or patterns of life take a sudden or drastic turn into a very different direction, a mature and responsible person calms his or her irrational emotions, and takes the morally responsible course of simply accepting the new state of things.’</span>


=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">2NC Overview:</span>===== 


**Death and misfortune are inevitable: spiritual suffering arises from plans and expectations that are inevitably let down. Both fortune and misfortunate are beautiful and should be accepted as they are.**
**Lao Tzu 300 B.C**.-, record keeper of the Zhou dynasty, approximately
(Tao Te Ching, chapter 16, as translated by Stephen Mitchell, http://academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu/core9/phalsall/texts/taote-v3.html#16)

Empty your mind of all thoughts…
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">and when death comes, you are ready.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">AT - Perm:</span>===== 

**Political approaches inevitably fail – spiritual enlightenment is our only hope.**
**Slabbert 1** [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” 2001, http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]

The inescapable forms of suffering include the obvious: being born, aging, and bodily decay…
As long as the human being has not solved the problem of greed in his heart, and as long as he is serving his own ego, any political system, no matter how noble, will be corrupted by the very people who should implement and protect it.

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">Link - Environmentalism:</span>===== 

**Attempts to fix the environment deny the very nature of the Tao – we must accept things for what they are.**
**Kirkland 98** [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]

Our modern problem is that we often have trouble assessing such teachings rationally…
And we see that the proper attitude of a human who understands these things is and must be to sit down, stop whining, and accept the natural reality of which we are a part.


=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">Link - Ethics:</span>===== 

**The Tao operates wisely – supposed “moral” intervention will only disrupt that process**
**Kirkland 98** [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]

The reader of the Tao te ching, for instance, is certainly enjoined not to practice jen, the Confucian ideal of "benevolence."…
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Ultimately, these perspectives assume human power and wisdom to be supreme, and they assume that "nature" is guided and protected by no benign forces beyond ourselves.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Hegemony Rhetoric K:</span>**=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">1NC:</span>===== 

**The words we use are significant and our political advocacies do not exist in a vacuum. We believe that debaters should be held responsible for their rhetoric in rounds. In other words, we believe debaters should be punished for using racist and hateful language. Based on these assumptions, we offer the following argument:**

**The entire point of the Affirmative is to make killing machines more efficient. The Aff is serious when they argue that killing other people efficiently is a core value of US power. We believe the Affirmative’s expression of this value is no different than the use of racist language, or being hateful towards others in the room. By arguing that it is important to make killing, warfare, and domination more effective by increasing heg, whether towards terrorists, the Chinese or any other group of people, the Aff represents itself as an agent of genocide.**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">This is a voting issue. The affirmative should be punished for advocating the tools of genocide in this debate. It is morally repugnant to assert that a policy is a good idea because it will allow us to kill others with ease. We should not promote this sort of knowledge production in debate rounds. We are calling out the aff for advocating a violent and fascist ideology. We think that they should be rejected for this ideology. There is no defense for genocide.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Hegemony is possible because of the use of metaphysical discourses that calculate the rest of the world while leaving the US unquestioned. Hegemonic thought is itself imperialism but it can be disrupted by an oppositional thinking.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Spanos 2K** (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, America’s Shadow, p. 191-193) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">What I have argued in this book about the relationship between philosophy and imperialism is that the euphoric annunciation of the end of history and the advent of the New World Order by the deputies of the dominant American culture at the end of the Cold War is symptomatic of the achievement of the global hegemony of "America" understood not simply as a political order, but as a way of thinking…</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">And, as I have suggested, it is the event of the Vietnam War—and the dominant American culture's inordinate will to forget it — that provides the directives for this most difficult of tasks not impossible.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Hegemony results in endless war – violence is reinforced by the mindless acceptance of a privileged position.**</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Burke 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;"> (Anthony, Professor of Politics and International Relations @ the University of New South Wales, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, p. 231-2, 2007)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Yet the first act in America's 'forward strategy of freedom' was to invade and attempt to subjugate Iraq, suggesting that, if 'peace' is its object, its means is war: the engine of history is violence, on an enormous and tragic scale, and violence is ultimately its only meaning…</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">As a senior adviser to Bush told a journalist in 2002: 'We're an empire now, and when we act, we create our own reality . . We're history's actors."</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">The role of the ballot is the intellectual task of undermining hegemony. Saying no and countering dominant discourses is necessary to prevent further violence</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;">Arac 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5; text-align: start;"> (Jonathan, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of English @ the University of Pittsburgh, Visiting Professor @ Columbia, and Director of Pitt’s Humanities Center, “Criticism between Opposition and Counterpoint” Boundary 2, Duke University Press, Vol. 25, No. 2, Summer 1998, pp. 55-69)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The motif of the "alternative”-what Conrad tragically lacked-is crucial in what Said demands of the intellectual…</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">So our critical use of history is a resource for our present alternatives.</span>


=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Heg Benign/Solves Genocide:</span>===== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Claims of benevolence legitimate imperialism, they aren’t objective and the idea that the colonized and oppressed are the benefactors is laughable.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Vanaik 7** (Achin, professor of International Relations and Global Politics in the Political Science Department of Delhi University, assistant editor in Mumbai for The Times of India, research fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Studies, “Selling US Wars”, P, p. 1. 2007)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The US today is militarily far and away the most powerful country in the world…</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">The former were the real beneficiaries, the liberated rather than the exploited or the oppressed!</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AT - Transition Wars:</span>===== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**The claim that our argument is the end of US hegemony and will cause war is a neoconservative fantasy – our criticism has a better chance of solving violence**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">**Rule 10** (James B., Emeritus Professor of Sociology @ Stony Brook University, has been a researcher or teacher @ MIT, Oxford, Nuffield, and Cambridge, Distinguished Affiliate Scholar @ the Center for the Study of Law and Society of UC Berkeley Law School, PhD in Sociology @ Harvard, MA Oxford, AB in Psychology @ Brandeis, The Military State of America and the Democratic Left, Dissent Vol. 57 No 1, Winter 2010)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">So what can the democratic Left offer as an alternative to the endless agenda of American world domination?...</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Such justifications must never come from the democratic Left.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 150%;">Ableism K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">1NC:</span>===== 

**The structure of transportation is oppressive towards the disabled, cities were built assuming everyone is perfectly born. This influences the idea that a few human beings can never be considered normal.**
**Gleeson 98** [Brendan Gleeson, Justice and the Disabling City Urban planning and governance Political economy of planning Social policy and the city The geography of disability Public land development Environmental policy and theory Transport and urban governance March 20, 1998, ISBN-10: [[http://chivs01aleph02.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com:8991/F?func=find-b&find_code=ISBN&request=1572303115|1572303115]]

Even allowing for the distinctive morphologies, economies, cultures, and planning policies of Western cities, the international breadth of concern raised by disabled people concerning inaccessibility (see Wrightson, 1989) demonstrates that this is a pervasive feature of urban life…
It is not surprising therefore that Hahn (1986, p. 274) sees inaccessibility as a threat both to "principles of democratic freedom and equality for citizens with disabilities."

**Transportation’s assumption of equality preserves discrimination based on ableism.**
**Gleeson 98** [Brendan Gleeson Justice and the Disabling City Urban planning and governance Political economy of planning Social policy and the city The geography of disability Public land development Environmental policy and theory Transport and urban governance March 20, 1998, ISBN-10: [[http://chivs01aleph02.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com:8991/F?func=find-b&find_code=ISBN&request=1572303115|1572303115]]]

A critically disabling feature of capitalist cities is their inaccessible design…
The above list is not exhaustive but does point to some of the more common discriminatory aspects of the built environments of contemporary Western cities.

**Ableism is the root cause of all forms of domination and dehumanization – racism and sexism are part and parcel.**
**Wolbring 08** (Gregor Wolbring, Development, 2008, 51, (252–258) Associate Professor Community Rehabilitation and Disability Studies, Past President of Canadian Disability Studies Association and member of the board of the Society for Disability Studies (USA) http://secure.gvsu.edu/cms3/assets/3B8FF455-E590-0E6C-3ED0F895A6FBB287/the_politics_of_ableism.pdf)

Sexism is partly driven by a form of ableism that favours certain abilities, and the labelling of women as not having those certain necessary abilities is used to justify sexism and the dominance of males over females…
The natural inherent qualities are ‘abilities’ that make them fit for specific duties and occupations.

**Our alternative is to use discourse analysis to interrupt the epistemology of disability discourse and revealing the ways disability rhetoric was produced.**
**Campbell 03** (Fiona Anne, 2003, “The Great Divide: Ableism and Technologies of Disability Production”, Dissertation, http://eprints.qut.edu.au/15889/1/Fiona_Campbell_Thesis.pdf, accessed 6/29/12)

The danger otherwise is to continue to reproduce dominant discourses that represent people with disabilities as passive victims lacking agency…
Instead, my methodological engagements aim to shift the gaze, to invert it, to examine the ways disability is known by continually returning to and thus focusing our attention on the practices and formations of ableism.

=====<span style="font-size: 130%;">2NC Overview:</span>===== 

**Ableism comes before transportation – the infused notions of ableism corrupt the outputs of transportation policies.**
**McCluskey 88** Martha T. McCluskey, Rethinking Equality and Difference: Disability Discrimination in Public Transportation,The Yale Law Journal , Vol. 97, No. 5 (Apr., 1988), pp. 863-880 http://www.jstor.org/stable/796517

People with physical disabilities in the United States have faced, and continue to struggle against, many social and economic disadvantages…
An ableist society is said to be one that treats non-disabled individuals as the standard of "normal living", which results in public and private places and services, education, and social work that are built to serve 'standard' people, thereby inherently excluding those with various disabilities.

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">AT - Ableism Inevitable:</span>===== 

**The reason the disabled experience a lower quality of life is not because they are impaired; rather it is a result of the restrictions imposed by society.**
**Barnes 92**. Colin Barnes, Professor of Disability Studies in the School of Social and Health Sciences Halmstad University, 1992, “DISABLING IMAGERY AND THE MEDIA”

Indeed, there is now clear evidence from several sources that Britain's six and a quarter million disabled people experience a lifestyle characterized by poverty and dependence…
When explaining the outcome of disability, therefore, the likelihood of simultaneous oppression should always be considered.

===<span style="font-size: 21px;">Feminism K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">1NC:</span>===== 

**The aff is indicative of a form of transportation planning whose masculine roots drive a vision of leadership.**
**Bauhardt 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christine, Technical University of Berlin Institute of Urban and Regional Planning, Urban Development and Transportation Infrastructures: Insights from the Ruhr Region, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CFkQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ifz.tugraz.at%2FMedia%2FDateien%2FDownloads-IFZ%2FSummer-Academy%2FProceedings-2004%2FUrban-Development-and-Transportation-Infrastructure-Insights-from-the-Ruhr-Region&ei=1bjxT4TdK4is8QS1u4X3DA&usg=AFQjCNETXWV2Zg7c7C1sVijFo3CcG7tCkA )</span>

Instead of addressing small-scale traffic problems, transportation planners offer complicated yet elegant technological solutions…
In my opinion, these are absolutely essential conditions for a sustainable planning of urban development and transportation systems.


**This masculine ideology is the root cause of proliferation, environmental destruction, domestic violence, and war**
**Warren & Cady 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karen J, Duane L, feminists and authors, Hypatia, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing connections,” pg 16-17)</span>

Much of the current "unmanageability" of contemporary life in patriarchal societies, (d), is then viewed as a consequence of a patriarchal preoccupation with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically male-gender identified beliefs, values, attitudes, and assumptions…
Its plausibility ties in understanding the conceptual roots of various woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global contexts.


**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and perform humanity.. We’ll clarify.**
**Take a chance, won't you? Knock down the fences that divide. Tear apart the walls that imprison. Reach out; freedom lies just on the other side.**
**Hall 2005**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lee Hall is the director of animal rights studies at Rutgers University. Has a P.H.D. in Fem studies</span>

To the extent that hegemonic masculinity has defined human nature, Twine recommends a critique that “involves a simultaneous exposure of the arbitrary definitions of our dominant understanding of ‘humanity’.”…
Consider a proposition from another optimist, Noel Ignatiev.

===<span style="font-size: 150%;">Deleuze K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">1NC:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation infrastructure striates space by channeling mobility through government-approved conduits of desire. This excludes minorities from the planning process and allows for the segregation of entire communities in the name of efficiency. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cresswell 12</span>** (Tim, Department of Geography Royal Holloway, University of London, “Constellations of Mobility,” www.dtesis.univr.it/documenti/Avviso/all/all181066.pdf.)

Mobility is channelled…
So not only did the rail system produce ‘tunneling effects’ by passing through minority areas it was also logically and economically related to a decrease in convenient bus routes and an increase in rates of death and injuries among inner city residents (Cresswell, 2006).

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Their reliance on the centrality of the state to create an ordered and stable system prevents nomadic dissent and deviation from norms.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koppensteiner 9</span>** (Norbert, peace researcher, program coordinator of the MA Program in Peace, Development, Security and International Conflict Transformation and the research and publications coordinator of the UNESCO Chair for Peace Studies @U of Innsbruck, “On Moving: Nomadism and (In)Security” p. 140-142)

The French philosopher Gilles Deleuze and his co-author Félix Guattari (1983, 1987) challenge these modern foundations in a postmodern vein…
Striated space is organised in ﬁxed patterns according to a pre-given unitary logic, that of the state.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This represents the certainty with which we are trained to tout the national system and sense of order – this microfascism is what creates violent support of horrific ends and reproduces the impacts of the aff</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze & Guattari 87</span>** (Gilles and Felix, French writers, philosophers and revolutionaries, Capitalism and Schizophrenia: A Thousand Plateaus, pg. 227-228)

The second danger, Clarity, seems less obvious…
We have overcome fear, we have sailed from the shores of security, only to enter a system that is no less concentricized, no less organized: the system of petty insecurities that leads everyone to their own black hole in which to turn dangerous, possessing a clarity on their situation, role, and mission even more disturbing than the certitudes of the first line.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vote negative in political affinity with the the 1NC’s nomadic critical consciousness. This reintroduces smooth space into thought and breaks down the striation that produces fascist subjectivities</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koppensteiner 9</span>** (Norbert, peace researcher, program coordinator of the MA Program in Peace, Development, Security and International Conflict Transformation and the research and publications coordinator of the UNESCO Chair for Peace Studies @U of Innsbruck, “On Moving: Nomadism and (In)Security” p. 144-145)

Smooth space, on the other hand, corresponds to nomadic subjectivities (Deleuze & Guattari 1987; Braidotti 1994 2002, 2006)…
From such a vantage point it becomes possible to sketch the outlines of a nomadic politics vis-à-vis the striation introduced by the security discourse; a politics that follows the rhizomatic characteristics of connection, circulation and movement and that draws its impetus from being transitory and transgressive, yet for all that still remains committed.

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">2NC Overview:</span>===== 

**Striation forces work upon all aspects of life—our time and freedom is gridded into a state-based apparatus that oppresses us and supercharges capitalism**
**Deleuze and Guattari 87** (Gilles and Felix, A Thousand Plateaus Pg. 484-486)

Earlier we encountered a distinction between "free action" in smooth space and "work" in striated space…
The present-day accelerated forms of the circulation of capital are making the distinctions between constant and variable capital, and even fixed and circulating capital, increasingly relative; the essential thing is instead the distinction between striated capital and smooth capital, and the way in which the former gives rise to the latter through complexes that cut across territories and States, and even the different types of States.

=====<span style="font-size: 20px;">2NC AT Perm:</span>===== 

**Perm can’t solve – it makes the K a rigid state apparatus that closes the line of escape instead of a connection of individual desires. They only have the attempt to band-aid the collapsing worldview of capitalism while we offer the hope of your simple individual agreement with us**
**Deleuze 74** (Gilles, “On Capitalism and Desire” Desert Islands pg. 245)

Gilles Deleuze: If we knew the answer to that, we wouldn't be discussing it, we would just go out and do it…
So, you see, there is hope.

**The perm is a capture of the K by power – it resembles corrupt politicians taking over an authentic revolution and destroy it. Without a true revolutionary break, the worst violence the world has known is unavoidable**
**Guattari 74** (Felix, “On Capitalism and Desire” Desert Islands pg. 244-245)

Felix Guattari: Exactly…
This raises a simple dilemma: either we find some new type of structure to facilitate the fusion of collective desire and revolutionary organization; or we continue on the present course, heading from one repression to the next, toward a fascism that will make Hitler and Mussolini look like a joke.

**The economy and infrastructure themselves contain exploitative forms of capitalist desire – the aff contains the seed of opression that will take over and ruin the garden of the alt**
**Deleuze 74** (Gilles, “On Capitalism and Desire” Desert Islands pg. 243)

Gilles Deleuze: Of course…
This is what is meant by primitive accumulation.

===<span style="font-size: 150%;">Orientalism K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">1NC:</span>===== 


**The affirmative constructs the Other through knowledge production and representation that produces a Self/Other dichotomy.**
**Sered 96** Danielle Sered, Rhode’s Scholar at Emory University, http://www.english.emory.edu/Bahri/Orientalism.html

Latent Orientalism is the unconscious, untouchable certainty about what the Orient is…
It is the expression in words and actions of Latent Orientalism.

**The affirmative’s representations of the Other—the simple act of representation -- is a display of power that renders the Other fixed and knowable, thus laying the path for Orientalist conquest.**
**Said 78** [Edward Said, Professor of Comparative Literature at Columbia University, Orientalism, pg. 308-309]

One can explain such statements by recognizing that a still more implicit and powerful difference posited by the Orientalist as against the Oriental is that the former writes about, whereas the latter is written about…
The relationship between the two is radically a matter of power, for which there are numerous images.

**Orientalism results in the dehumanization of the Other.**
**Said 78** [Edward Said , Professor of Comparative Literature at Columbia University, Orientalism, pg. 108-109]

In a sense the limitations of Orientalism are, as I said earlier, the limitations that follow upon disregarding, essentializing, denuding the humanity of another culture, people, or geographical region…
In the meantime a growing, more and more dangerous rift separates Orient and Occident.

**Dehumanization makes conflict, human rights violations and genocide inevitable.**
**Maiese 03** [Michelle Maiese, Graduate Student of Philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder; Research Staff at the Conflict Research Consortium; “Dehumanization,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/dehumanization/]]</span>]

While deindividuation and the formation of enemy images are very common, they form a dangerous process that becomes especially damaging when it reaches the level of dehumanization…
Similar atrocities have occurred in Rwanda, Cambodia, and the former Yugoslavia.

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of Orientalism in favor of narrative approaches to representation and understanding.**
**Sered 96** [Danielle Sered, Rhode’s Scholar at Emory University, http://www.english.emory.edu/Bahri/Orientalism.html]

Said calls into question the underlying assumptions that form the foundation of Orientalist thinking…
Scholarship from afar and second-hand representation must take a back seat to narrative and self-representation on the part of the ‘Oriental.’

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">2NC Framework - Epistemology:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Questioning epistemology is a precursor to the evaluation of the affirmative’s truth claims, which is necessary for a truly valuable debate.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Oyewumi 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [Oyeronke, Associate Professor of Sociology, SUNY Stony Brook, “The Invention of Women Making an African Sense of Western Gender Discourses,” University of Minnesota Press]</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">THIS BOOK is about the epistemological shift occasioned by the imposition of Western gender categories on Yoruba discourse… </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Only when such assumptions are exposed can they be debated and challenged.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">2NC Framework - Role of the Ballot:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">The debate community is only what we make it – your ballot represents the means to start a subtle mechanism of change in its structure and constructed norms. As members of the community, denying this agency sacrifices the only real means for change we have, through the alternative.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Bjork 93 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(former college debater and former associate professor at the University of Utah, where she taught graduate and undergraduate courses in Communication and Women in Debate, Reflections on the Ongoing Struggle, Debater's Research Guide 1992-1993: Wake Forest University.Symposium, web.archive.org/web/20011012220529/members.aol.com/womynindebate/article3.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">I am a person who looks forward to the opportunities for active engagement of ideas with debaters and coaches from around the country…</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">We may not be able to change the world, but we can change our own community, and if we fail to do so, we give up the only real power that we have.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">2NC Representations First:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Representations must be analyzed before policy consequences because they have profound effects on the results and perception of policymaking.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Dauber 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[Cori E., Associate Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “The Shot Seen ‘Round the World: The Impact of the Images of Mogadishu on American Military Operations,” Rhetoric and Public Affairs, Vol. 4, No. 4, Winter, pg. 678]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The impact the Mogadishu images have had on American foreign policy is clear…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Academic rhetoricians, through their choice of projects and the form in which they publish, can stake a claim to having an important voice at the table--and they should do so.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Language pervades all aspects of life—it’s inevitability makes analyzing the exclusions and values it maintains all the more important in an attempt to utilize it as a site of resistance.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> [Roland, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, Ph.D. from the Australian National University, “Popular Dissent,” Human Agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Language is one of the most fundamental aspects of human life…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">In short, language epitomises the potential and limits of discursive forms of transversal dissent</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">AT - Perm:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Orientalism cannot be deconstructed in close proximity to the state. CONSTANT evaluation of methodology through a critical lens is essential to throwing off Orientalist dogma—doing the alternative as an after thought can’t reverse their latent Orientalism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Said 78</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> [Edward, Professor of Comparative Literature at Columbia University, Orientalism, pg. 108-109]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">I hope that some of my answers to these questions have been implicit in the foregoing, but perhaps I can speak a little more explicitly about some of them here…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Berque's attention to recent discoveries in structural anthropology, Rodinson's to sociology and political theory, Owen's to economic history: all these are instructive correctives brought from the contemporary human sciences to the study of so-called Oriental problems.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">AT - Threats Real:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Critical interrogation of geopolitics key to effective policy-making</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Tuathail 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> – Professor of Government and International Affairs and Director of the Masters of Public and International Affairs program at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Gearóid Ó, "Understanding Critical Geopolitics: Geopolitics and Risk Society", Geopolitics, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 22, Issue 2/3, 2001, July 16th 2010, p. 5, </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Ironically, the vertigo of our contemporary condition has rendered critical geopolitics more relevant to policy making than ever before while shifting political winds have brought some former peace movement figures to political power (Vaclav Havel in the Czech Republic and Josehka Fischer in Germany, for example)…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Similarly, geopolitics is a writing of the geographical meanings and politics of states.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Social construction of threats utterly shape foreign policy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Tuathail 01</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> – Professor of Government and International Affairs and Director of the Masters of Public and International Affairs program at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Gearóid Ó, "Understanding Critical Geopolitics: Geopolitics and Risk Society", Geopolitics, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 22, Issue 2/3, 2001, July 16th 2010, p. 5-6, </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">For heuristic research purposes, critical geopolitics divides geopolitics into formal, practical, popular and strucutural geopolitics (see Table 1, p. 111)…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Today, these processes include, as we have noted, globalization, informationalization and the proliferating risks unleashed by the successes of our techno-scientific civilization accross the earth.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">Link - Guam:</span>===== 


**US military expansion reinforces colonialism and is unwanted by the citizens of Guam – political leaders and citizens are not consulted.**
**Lutz 10** (Catherine, Chair of the Anthropology Department at Brown University, Professor of Anthropology at the Watson Institute for International Studies. “American Military Bases on Guam: The US Global Military Basing System. 26 July 2010. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/american-military-bases-on-guam-the-us-global-military-basing-system/20405]]</span>)

This military expansion has been planned in Washington, with acquiescence and funding from Tokyo, in order to relocate some 8,000 Marines and 9,000 dependents from Okinawa, as well as US Navy, Army, and Air Force assets and operations to Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas (CNMI) (Erickson and Mikolay 2006)…
This historical change – the process of militarization or military colonization – has been visible to some, but more often, hidden in plain sight.

=====<span style="font-size: 130%;">Guam Narrative:</span>===== 

LindaLisa Natividad is a Chamorro rights advocate and one of the main organizers of the local opposition to the Guam build-up, the imminent transfer of 8,000 Marines and their families from bases in Okinawa to Guam, an under-resourced and environmentally exploited de facto colony of the U.S. military that already controls one-third of Guam's land mass.
Natividad teaches at the University of Guam, where many of her colleagues in the social work department are also active in the struggle for Chamorro self-determination. "This whole build-up is an issue of justice," Natividad says, "social justice, which is one of our core values in the social work profession." Pushed into peace work by the signing of this accord, Natividad has since become known as a consistent questioner of the environmental and human cost of the proposed build-up. This past summer, Natividad spoke on the matter in Australia, Hong Kong, the Philippines, and at the U.S. Social Forum in Detroit.

Interview conducted by Seth Kershner, journalist for Z Magazine, in September 2010. “Resisting the Guam Military Build-up.” [[http://www.zcommunications.org/resisting-the-guam-military-build-up-by-seth-kershner]]

KERSHNER: Explain Chamorro-U.S. relations?...
It's like, "let's just pretend that's not there," because they have other things in mind for us.

=====<span style="font-size: 150%;">AT - Guam Likes the Plan:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Natives of Guam hate the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Glantz 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> (Aaron, journalist, reporter and author. “Natives of Guam Decry U.S. Expansion Plan.” 12 December 2006. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://ipsnorthamerica.net/news.php?idnews=563]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">According the neoconservative American Enterprise Institute, the Pentagon has already moved attack submarines and cruise missiles to Guam, where it is forming a strike force of six bombers and 48 fighters that have been deployed from bases in the continental U.S…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">That's how the United States government relates to the people of Guam."</span>

===<span style="font-size: 21px;">Security K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 19px;">1NC:</span>===== 

**The affirmative’s obsession with ranking and managing risk is the essence of security logic.**
**Hagmann & Cavelty 12** (National risk registers: Security scientism and the propagation of permanent insecurity, John Hagmann and Myriam Dunn Cavelty, International Peace Research Institute, Oslo, Sage Journals Feb 15 2012)

With the demise of communism as an overarching organizing principle and crystallization point, Western security doctrines have seen the inclusion of a growing range of different security issues from political, societal, economic and environmental sectors…
Evaluating and ranking all kinds of potential insecurities, from toxic accidents and political unrest to plant diseases, thunderstorms, energy shortages, terrorist strikes, wars and the instability of global financial markets, risk registers stand at the intersection of the broadening of security politics and the adoption of risk logics.

**The dream of security produces apocalypse – constructions of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape.**
**Coviello 2K** Peter Coviello, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, 2k [Queer Frontiers, p. 39-40]
Perhaps…
For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

**Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought**
**Neocleous 8** Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 2008 [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether - to reject it as so ideologically loaded in favour of the state that any real political thought other than the authoritarian and reactionary should be pressed to give it up…
But it certainly requires recognising that security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion; it requires recognising that security is not the same as solidarity; it requires accepting that insecurity is part of the human condition, and thus giving up the search for the certainty of security and instead learning to tolerate the uncertainties, ambiguities and 'insecurities' that come with being human; it requires accepting that 'securitizing' an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'

===<span style="font-size: 150%;">Virilio K:</span>=== 

=====<span style="font-size: 140%;">1NC:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Virilio 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span> 81-83) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">But let us get back to Europe’s great engineering projects and the political significance of this initial programme of European infrastructural development…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The former pre-eminence of the spatial situation will then gradually lose its his-torical importance, favouring temporary network access protocols suing; information routing to enable messages instantaneously trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Sykes 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In Virlio’s view, the war machine is the demiurge of technological development and an ultimate threat to humanity, producing a ‘state of emergency’ in which nuclear [annihilation] holocaust threatens the very survival of the human species…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“We must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Glezos 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]]</span>, “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) //BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The goal then is thus to politicize the military, to politicize war, to challenge the military from a political standpoint, and return it to civilian control…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">An appeal to slowness is the only defense against historical necessity of the vicious cycle of reinforcement between speed, war and the (Globalitarian) state.</span>


=====<span style="font-size: 17.77777862548828px;">Link - Economy:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Maintaining a global economy based on speed ensures collapse—their advantage is based on an impossible simulation rooted in our desire to overcome space with time</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Kroker 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> - editor of CTheory, Ph.D. in political science and professor of political science at the University of Victoria, director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture, on the Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory, and Marilouise, editor of CTheory, Senior Research Scholar at the University of Victoria. (Arthur, City of Transformation: Paul Virilio in Obama's America,” CTheory is a peer reviewed international journal of theory, technology and culture. October 30, 2008. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=597#bio|http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=597#bio]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Are we beyond Speed and Politics?...</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Not really a fatal oscillation between fast technology and slow society, but hyper-technologies of global financial manipulation that can move so quickly because, just as Jean Baudrillard long ago warned, the hyperreal, simulational world of derivatives, credit swaps, and mortgage backed securities long ago blasted off from material reality, reaching escape velocity, and then orbiting the world as star-like high finance satellites -- purely virtual satellites which have no real meaning for the rest of us as long as they stay in space as part of the alienated, recursive loops of advanced capitalism.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 140%;">2NC Overview:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">The loss of meaning results in the loss of the future, where extermination, genocide, resource exhaustion is rampant in the futurism of reality.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Virilio 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, futurism of the instant, verso, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span> 23-26) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">‘Without a doubt, the United States has entered a new era in transportation,’ the US Secretary of Transportation, Norman Mineta, declared in 2002, at a conference on homeland security, referring to ‘an era where a cunning and remorseless enemy can challenge one of America’s most cherished freedoms: freedom of movement’…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">It tends more to induce the opening of hostilities between civilian populations now threatened on all sides in confrontations in which resettlement of the terrestrial globe is now such an urgent issue that soon no metropolitan geopolitics will be able to deal with it.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 130%;">2NC Framework:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Debate is pedagogical activity in which the plan obviously never happens—therefore the judge should be a critical intellectual deciding between competing political strategies, debate is a deliberative process part of a larger democracy—we should examine the assumptions of the plan in the context of speed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Virilio 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">– Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, the information bomb, 2005, verso, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span> 65-66) //BZ</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">‘Brevity is the soul of e-mail,’ Nicholas Negroponte tells internauts in Being Digital…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Once this question on the future of political representation has been raised, one can better understand that the dream of most of the major parties is to have members of parliament who are so ‘soft’, so much like silent soap stars, that no grotesque puppet could be made of them, no stupid comment attributed to them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Confining discourse to only policy debates constructs a regime of truth that masks the constructed nature of their harms and solvency; this undermines their entire explanation of the world.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Smith 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">, professor of political science at the University of Wales,(Steve, Review of International Studies, Cambridge journals online)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">By focusing on the policy debate, we restrict ourselves to the issues of the day, to the tip of the political iceberg…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">In essence, how we know things determines what we see, and the public realm of politics is itself the result of a prior series of (political) epistemological moves which result in the political being seen as either natural or a matter of common sense.</span>


=====<span style="font-size: 140%;">2NC Cap Impact:</span>===== 


**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Advanced in transportation infrastructure establishes speed as the principle of life causing the unending expansion of capitalism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Schivelbusch 77</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> (Wolfgang, awarded the Heinrich Mann prize of the Academie of Arts in Berlin, German scholar of cultural studies and history, “The Railway Journey: The Industrialization of Time and Space in the 19th Century”, Forward by: Alan Trachtenberg from Yale University, Google Books)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Nothing else in the nineteenth century seemed as vivid and dramatic a sign of modernity as the railroad…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">He was converted from a private individual into one of a mass public - a mere consumer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Turns every impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Everest 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> (Larry; correspondent for Revolution newspaper; 5/24/12; “WAR AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM: “Money for Jobs Not for War”: American Chauvinism and Reformist Illusions” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=31024)//RSW</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">“Money for Jobs and Education! Jobs and Education, Not War and Occupation!”…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Through this process of actively opposing U.S. aggression and the “America Number 1” mindset fostered to justify it, people can and must be won to increasingly see that this capitalist system and state is utterly un-reformable and that it’s going to take revolution to get rid of it, end its predatory wars once and for all, and bring into being a whole new system and state that is in the actual interests of the people in the U.S. and around the world.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 130%;">AT - Virilio is Crazy:</span>===== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Even if he seems paranoid, he’s right about a lot of stuff.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Adams 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> (Jason, Masters Political Science, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Indeed, the global spy satellite system that the Pentagon spent the last quarter of the 20th century putting into place made a contribution of its own, since it has over time made it impossible for national armies to function without being detected immediately; a mass mediatization of political bodies reflected also in the tendency of many Americans during the events of September 11, to feel as though they were 'watching a movie' even amongst those who saw it occur directly in front of them…</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">When one considers that PNAC was once headed by Rumsfeld, Virilio's sometimes 'paranoid' sounding arguments thus seem to have considerable weight behind them, just as many of his other predictions have been borne out over time; what he concludes from all of this is that in an era in which "one man = total war"178 the world must take seriously the threat of terrorism of all kinds, while also maintaining one's guard against the instrumental use of these same emotions in order to inspire popular anxieties, softening people up for manipulations of all sorts; as he puts it, to succumb to or to unleash this sort of rhetoric in this way "is to forget, rather quickly, that fear is a poor counselor, as all dictatorships have proven since antiquity".I7'</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">INTEL:</span>== 

====__**Wake Forest:**__==== 

Round 2 vs MBA BT (HSR)
1NC: Virilio K, “Fast Enough” CP, Case
2NR: Virilio K, Case

Round 4 vs Dunwoody HD (SUSTAIN)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Round 6 vs. Chattahoochie KA (Port Security)
1NC: Cap K, GLADIS CP, Elections (Obama Good), Case
2NR: Cap K, Case (Racism Turns)

====__**Long Beach:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. Notre Dame BG (HSR)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case (Dedev)

Round 3 vs. Lowell LV (HSR)
1NC: Plan Flaw, T – Its, T – TI, Cap K, Case
2NR: Plan Flaw, T – Its, T – TI

Round 5 vs. San Dieguito MZ (NextGen)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Octos vs. Lowell HN (HSR)
1NC: Plan Flaw, Cap K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

====__**Fullerton:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. Torrey Pines PV (NextGen)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

Round 4 vs. Damien LL (CCS)
1NC: T – TI, Cap K, Case
2NR: T – TI

Round 6 vs. Damien CS (CCS)
1NC: T – TI, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case (Dedev)

Octos vs. Torrey Pines HN (CCS)
1NC: T – Investment, T – TI, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case (Dedev)

Quarters vs. Leland AV (NIB)
1NC: T – Investment, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Semis vs. Damien LR (Carriers)
1NC: T – TI, T – Military, T – United States, Cap K, Case
2NR: T – Military

====__**Glenbrooks:**__==== 

Round 2 vs. Barstow AN (NIB)
1NC: T - Investment, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case

Round 3 vs. Georgetown Day HK (Disabilities)
1NC: T - Investment, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case

Round 5 vs. Kinkaid RC (JARC)
1NC: T - TI, Cap K, State PIC w/ Autonomy DA, Case
2NR: Autonomy DA, Cap K

Round 7 vs. Coppell BM (Guam)
1NC: Orientalism K, T - United States, Case
2NR: T - United States

====__**Texas:**__==== 
Josh debating with Lani Frazer

Round 1 vs. C.E. Byrd GN (Fasching Disabilities)
1NC: Cap K, T - Underlying Structures, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case

Round 4 vs. Caddo Magnet JM (Military Ocean Terminals)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Round 6 vs. Elkins FP (Bikes)
1NC: T - TI, Ableism K, Cap K, Case
2NR: T - TI, Cap K, Case

====__**Gonzaga:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. Interlake LJ (D&G Airports)
1NC: Framework, TSA CP, Psychoanalysis K, Case
2NR: TSA CP, Case

Round 4 vs. Hamilton PC (Icebreakers)
1NC: T - Vehicles, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Case

Round 5 vs. Damien FF (Critical Bering Strait)
1NC: Framework, Cap K, Borders PIC, Case
2NR: Cap K, Borders PIC as defense, Case

====__**Golden Desert:**__==== 
Josh debating with Fiona Duffy

Round 1 vs. Salpointe Catholic MS (Anthro Dam Removal)
1NC: T - Increase Investment, Plan Flaw, State PIC, Cap K, Taoism K, Case
2NR: Taoism K, Case

Round 4 vs. Juan Diego MH (Zizek Mass Transit)
1NC: FW, State PIC, Deleuze K, Case
2NR: Deleuze K

Round 6 vs. East WO (NextGen)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

====__**Stanford:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. Harker SM (Marine Highways)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

Round 3 vs. Head Royce PM (Pirates)
1NC: The Duel
2NR: The Duel

Round 6 vs. GBN KM (Port Dredging)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Doubles vs. Pinecrest BG (Fuel Cell Buses)
1NC: T - Vehicles, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

====__**Berkeley:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. Juan Diego CE (Overidentification - Road through the White House)
1NC: T - Substantial, Deleuze K, Case
2NR: Case

Round 3 vs. Bingham MS (Icebreakers)
1NC: T - TI, T - United States, Cap K, Case
2NR: T - TI

Round 5 vs. Leland KL (NIB)
1NC: Cap K
2NR: Cap K

====__**State Quals:**__==== 
Josh debating with Adam Martin

Round 1 vs. Dougherty Valley ?? (SPS)
1NC: T - TI, Spending DA, Immigration Ptx, States CP, Case
2NR: T - TI

Round 3 vs. Head Royce GP (Anthro Dam Removal)
1NC: T - TI, T - Substantial, Spending DA, Immigration Ptx, Washington CP, Case
2NR: T - Substantial, Spending DA, Washington CP

Elims vs. ?? ?? (HSR)
1NC: Spending DA, Immigration Ptx, States CP, Case
2NR: Spending DA, States CP, Case

====__**NFL National Quals:**__==== 
Josh debating with Ricky Young

Round 1 vs. Pinole Valley ?? (Port Security)
1NC: Cap K, Security K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Security K w/o alt as defense

Round 4 vs. CPS AG (Mayport)
1NC: Cap K, Heg Rhetoric K, Case
2NR: Heg Rhetoric K, Case

Round 6 vs. CPS FG (Mayport)
1NC: Heg Rhetoric K, Case
2NR: Heg Rhetoric K, Case

Round 8 vs. Lowell HN (HSR)
1NC: Fem K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

====__**NDCA:**__==== 

Round 1 vs. CPS YH (Port Dredging)
1NC: Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K, Solvency Takeouts

Round 4 vs. Johns Creek AS (NextGen)
1NC: Cap K, Orientalism K (Iran Prolif Module), Case
2NR: Orientalism K

Round 5 vs. Bronx Science LS (Climate Adaptation)
1NC: Cap K, Taoism K, Case
2NR: Case (Dedev)

====__**NFL Nationals:**__==== 
Josh debating with Ricky Young

Round 1 vs. Team 267 (Mass Transit)
1NC: OSPEC, Cap K, Fem K, States CP w/Federalism DA, Case
2NR: Cap K

Round 3 vs. Team 233 (Port Security)
1NC: T - TI, T - Substantial, Cap K, Security K, Case
2NR: T - TI, T - Substantial, Cap K

Round 5 vs. Friendswood BT (Machine-Oriented Ontology)
1NC: FW, T - Investment, Anthro K, Open Forum CP, Case
2NR: FW, T - Investment, Case

Round 8 vs. GBS SW (Disabled Veterans)
1NC: Vagueness, Cap K, Case
2NR: Cap K

Round 9 vs. Bingham GH (Port Security)
1NC: T - Security, Cap K, Multipolarity K, Case
2NR: T - Security