[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

===Commercial Crew Aff=== 
=1AC Status Quo= 
__Contention One is the Status Quo__
Congressional budget cuts doom the restart of our space flight program
Kaiser 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Tiffany, reporter for Daily Tech, “NASA Commercial Crew Flights Delayed 2 Years”, November 21, [[http://www.dailytech.com/NASA+Commercial+Crew+Flights+Delayed+2+Years/article23335c.htm]] EG)</span>

NASA has announced … acquisition strategy," said Bolden.

And any further cuts will permanently derail the program - funding now is key
Klotz 12<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Irene, “NASA Commercial Crew Official Warns Another Deep Cut Could Kill the Program”, [[http://www.spacenews.com/policy/120215-nasa-commercial-cut-kill-program.html]] EG)</span>

COCOA BEACH, Fla. — If Congress halves President Barack Obama’s 2013 budget request for … with Congress the importance of that.”
=1AC Plan= 
Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the United States federal government’s commercial crew and cargo transportation programs beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

=1AC Partnerships= 
<span class="CiteChar">__Contention__ _ is Partnerships </span>
__<span class="CiteChar">Uncertainty over the direction of the US space program undermines the industrial base destroying tech competitiveness and innovation</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Slazer 11</span> – Vice President of the Space Aerospace Industries Association, also Director NASA/Civil Space at Mcdonnell Douglas Corporation (Frank, “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives”, Senate Hearing, 5/18, [[http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=e26b4dcb-ee2c-4ada-95fa-b996c307692d]] EG)__

__Space programs are essential<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> or inevitably fall behind. </span>__
__NASA facilitates private sector success – they can’t do it alone – provides development expertise and technical support__
__Musk 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Elon, CEO of SpaceX, Stamement of Elon Musk before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology U. S. House of Representatives, October 26, [[http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/102611_Musk.pdf]] EG)</span>__

__The NASA-SpaceXCOTS<span class="UnderlineChar"> partnership </span>… advance innovative approaches<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>__

__Government key to reduce launch costs and save the industry – it’s a prerequisite to all other exploration__
__Olesen 12<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Gary Oleson, who worked on NASA’s International Space Station program earlier in his career, is an engineer at the Chantilly-based federal contracting firm Tasc. Oleson’s views do not necessarily reflect the official position of Tasc, “Commentary: Cutting NASA’s budget would be a bad move”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/capitalbusiness/commentary-cutting-nasas-budget-would-be-a-bad-move/2012/01/30/gIQAZh19rQ_story.html]] EG)</span>__

__In 2010, Obama proposed a fundamental … future in space<span class="UnderlineChar">, it’s </span>a necessity.__

__Only COTS can reduce launch costs by billions and catalyze__ public-private partnership __– CPs are descriptive of__ status quo failure__
Musk 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Elon, CEO of SpaceX, Stamement of Elon Musk before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology U. S. House of Representatives, October 26, [[http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/102611_Musk.pdf]] EG)</span>

In 2006, SpaceX partnered with NASA<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> four years for about $300 million</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Plan solves – competition through commercial crew is key
Ferster 4/19<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Warren, Space News, “Funding Cut Would Delay Private Space Taxis, NASA Deputy Chief Says”, [[http://www.space.com/15338-garver-nasa-congress-commercial-crew-funding.html]] EG)</span>

Garver said the Commercial Crew Program … the first Soyuz flight is needed.

=1AC Resource Conflict= 
__Scenario__ _ is Resource Conflict__
Lower launch costs facilitate further space exploration that prevents inevitable resource wars – the alternative is extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collins and Autino 10</span> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy
Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct

The major source of social friction … wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

=1AC Leadership= 
__Contention__ _ is Leadership
__US space leadership is sustainable now but in__ rapid decline__ – only a strong human spaceflight program can avoid permanently ceding leadership
Bishop 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Representative Rob, Utah Republican, “With end of Space Shuttle program, America now must depend on Russian taxis to get to space”, The Washington Examiner. July 21, [[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/op-eds/2011/07/end-space-shuttle-program-america-now-must-depend-russian-taxis-get-space]] EG)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The Atlantis landing at the Kennedy Space Center … rather than lead as we have for nearly half a century.</span>


=1AC Hegemony= 
__Scenario__ _ is Hegemony__
Space leadership key to overall hegemony
Schmitt 10<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Harrison, Harrison Hagan "Jack" Schmitt is an American geologist, a retired NASA astronaut, university professor, and a former U.S. senator from New Mexico, “Obama space policy cedes Moon to China, Space Station to Russia and Liberty to the Ages”, February 6, [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/2445788/posts]] EG) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>Administration finally has announced its formal retreat … to the end of the Cold War.
Hegemony solves nuclear war and extinction – even if multipolarity is inevitable, US power is key to peaceful transition.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Barnett 11</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7<span style="color: #427eb1;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]</span>)</span>

Events in Libya are a further reminder<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the Pacific Century now unfolding</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

=1AC China Conflict= 
__Scenario__ _ is China Conflict
__China’s new spaceflight goals will eventually outpace us – they will aggressively pursue space dominance during the US “gap”__
__Wong and Chang 12/29<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(Edward and Kenneth, Foreign Correspondents for the New York Times, “Space Plan From China Broadens Challenge to U.S.”, 2011, The New York Times, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/30/world/asia/china-unveils-ambitious-plan-to-explore-space.html?pagewanted=1]] EG)</span>__

__In recent years, China has also sought<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> and we don’t do that.” </span>__

__Even though China is still technologically behind,__ perception of aggressive ambitions __will incite an arms race – plan is key to regain space dominance__
__Listner 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Michael, International and domestic space law attorney and policy consultant and contributor to Defense Policy Journal, “Tiangong-1: Another Sputnik for the U.S. to Respond To?”, October 13, [[http://www.defensepolicy.org/author/michlis]] EG)</span>__

__<span class="UnderlineChar">Aside from </span>Tiangong<span class="UnderlineChar">’s utility as a platform … </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> acquiescence to China’s growing space capabilities.</span>__

__Arms race causes an all-out nuclear war with China – they are__ purely reactionary__ to our program
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Englehart 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (ALEX B. ENGLEHART is a patent litigation attorney practicing in the firm’s Litigation, ITC Litigation and Patent Interferences groups. He litigates matters in federal courts and before the International Trade Commission (ITC). His practice also includes interference matters before the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Mr. Englehart’s patent litigation experience spans a variety of technical areas, including wireless networking, global positioning systems (GPS), micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), and metallurgy. Additionally, he has served as local counsel in patent cases in the Eastern District of Virginia, providing clients with a detailed understanding of local rules and procedures. While in law school Mr. Englehart twice served as a full-time judicial extern in the federal judiciary - first for Magistrate Judge Bernard Zimmerman of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, and then for Judge Randall Rader of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal. Seattle: Jan 2008. Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 133, 24 pgs proquest)</span>

B. A U.S. Deployment of These Space Weapons Will Open … weapons than for everyone to have them.

=1AC ISS= 
__Contention__ _ is the ISS

__We are now__ entirely dependent __on Russia for access to space, but recent rocket failures prove the Soyuz is__ unreliable__ and will force the abandonment of the ISS
Dunn 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Marcia, space writer for the Associated Press, “Astronauts might have to abandon space station”, August 30, [[http://redicecreations.com/article.php?id=16631]] EG)</span>

Astronauts may need to take … on board at least an extra week.

Commercial crew is the only dependable means of access to the ISS – it must be fully funded
Chow 12<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Denise, space writer for MSNBC and Space.com, “Russian setbacks stress NASA's need for private spaceships”, 2/12, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46283736/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TzK718WXRK1|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46283736/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.TzK718WXRK1]] EG)</span>

The<span class="UnderlineChar"> recent </span>delay of the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> with that request," Logsdon said.</span>

=1AC Disease= 
__Scenario__ _ is Disease__

<span class="CiteChar">Consistent ISS participation key to cure infectious diseases</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ruttley et al 9</span> (Tara M. Ruttley, Cynthia A. Evans and Julie A. Robinson Office of the ISS Program Scientist, International Space Station Program, “THE IMPORTANCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION FOR LIFE SCIENCES RESEARCH: PAST AND FUTURE”, September, Gravitational And Space Biology Journal, [[http://gravitationalandspacebiology.org/index.php/journal/article/view/471]] EG)

<span class="UnderlineChar">One of the most exciting results reported … Salmonella </span>infections on Earth<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

New pandemics will inevitably emerge – without vaccines they cause extinction
Yu 09<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (“Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Journal of Undergraduate Science, [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim … into a human-viable strain (10).</span>


=1AC Scientific Diplomacy= 
__Scenario__ _ is Scientific Diplomacy__

Lack of access to the ISS kills American scientific leadership – it’s building up now but will be destroyed
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hauser and John 9</span> [Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]]

If the UnitedStatesallowsits leadership … abandoning a National Laboratory to other nations.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The US is a critical international beacon of scientific diplomacy and leadership </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Turekian 10</span><span style="color: #000000;">[Vaugh. </span>Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Dr. Vaughan Turekian began his keynote speech … </span> which may only be obtainable through foreign cooperation.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter – independently solves ocean acidification, deforestation, and arctic conflict </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal Society 10</span>– a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]

Over the next thirty years, foreign policy … contentious sovereignty claims (Natural Resources Canada 2009).

Arctic competition escalates to nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Staples 9</span> (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, [[http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]], p. 5-6)

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a<span class="UnderlineChar">n … </span>the <span class="UnderlineChar">threat or </span>use of nuclear weapons<span class="UnderlineChar">.”</span>

=1AC ISS Control= 
__Scenario__ _ is ISS Control
__Soyuz dependency undermines__ regular ISS servicing __– that leads to the__ catastrophic reentry__ of the ISS into the atmosphere
Abbey 11<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (George, Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy, James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy @ Rice University, “Restore the Vision”, July 20, [[http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/SPACE-pub-AbbeySpaceShuttleVision-072011.pdf]] EG)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The space shuttle’s retirement … and other space station partners. </span>

That causes more damage than all the nuclear weapons in existence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kunich 97</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">(Lieutenant Colonel John C</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">., </span>**Staff Judge Advocate, 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, Colorado, Air Force Law Review, 41 A.F. L. Rev. 119, accessed through Lexis)
If you were standing<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span>approximately 9 million megatons of TNT<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

=Round 2= 
vs GBS HJ Mars colonization aff -
EU CP
China DA
JV DA
Tradeoff DA
=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 
=1AC Air Force= 
__Scenario ___ is the Air Force__
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rising launch costs and aging technology doom the US military launch capability</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Norris 12 </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">Guy, Aviation Week, “Challenges Face U.S. Military Launch Ability”, 1/11, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/asd/2012/01/11/06.xml&headline=Challenges%20Face%20U.S.%20Military%20Launch%20Ability]], BJM)</span>

The U.S. must overcome the growing challenges …affecting our sterling record of success,” he says.

The Air Force is entirely dependent on space assets – lack of a launch capability will destroy it
Pellerin 3/27<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Cheryl, American Forces Press Service, “General: Space capability integral to all military operations”, The Official Website of the Air Force, [[http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123295528]] EG)</span>

3/27/2012 - WASHINGTON (AFNS<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) -- </span>Space capabilities have become integral<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">…</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> rely on commercial satellite communication."</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">That sparks global WMD conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis 98</span>(Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, 1998, “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century”, http://www.rand. org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)

This subsection attempts to synthesize … time frames examined in this report. 

No CPs – commercial crew the only way to make the market competitive
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Butler 4/16</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">(</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">Amy, Aviation Week, “28th National Space Symposium Special Report”, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/awst/2012/04/16/AW_04_16_2012_p44-446323.xml&headline=null&prev=10]], BJM)</span>

More than a decade after … one booster in an effort to save money.
=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]