=__AFFIRMATIVE - PORT SECURITY__= 

====__Plan__: **The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.**==== 
===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ContentionOne is Inherency –</span>=== 

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">//Vital// port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a successful WMD attack are high</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz, 7-15</span>-12 – Douglas, “Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]].
The Obama administration has failed to meet a legal deadline for scanning all shipping containers
AND
who wants to get a weapon of mass destruction into the United States.”

====//Solutions exist// but __drastic__ cuts to the Port Security Grant Program __destroy port security__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ’12</span> – Anthony, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
“Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now.”

====Cost and technology aren’t barriers – failure to act immediately is __fatal__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al, ’12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse,” New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.

====__Only__ more grant investment in infrastructure can solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA, ’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]].
In the decade since Sept. 11, 2001, America's seaports and the federal
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama’s investing political capital in //limited// disbursement of PSGP funds now</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mayle, 7-20</span>-12 – Mary Carr, “GPA gets added security grant funds,” Savannah Now, [[http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ|http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ]].
The Georgia Ports Authority has been awarded nearly a half-million dollars in federal
AND
certain South Carolina lawmakers and commission members off Georgia’s case? Stay tuned.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">New PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal __enforcement__ is key for to effective port infrastructure security __coordination__</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB, ‘4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. “The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role,” Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].
As the only U.S. military service with law enforcement authority, the
AND
and to the Coast Guard and other federal agencies charged with implementing them.

===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Two is the National Preparedness Goal </span>=== 

====The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶ The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities ¶ within the NPG.

====The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.

====__Federal__ Interagency Operational Plans to strengthen the NPG are due on __September 25th__ – that halts __cyberterror__, __pandemics__ ,__natural disasters__ and __transnational threats__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
National preparedness is aimed at<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> strengthening the security and resilience of the nation by </span>preparing for the full range of 21st century risks
AND
We’ve<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> still </span>got work to do before the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Federal Interagency Operational </span>Plans are submitted to the White House on September 25<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

====__Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatorygreat power__ nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

====__Pandemics__ at ports //instantly// kill __billions__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States.Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

====Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

====__Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

====Transnational threats are try or die for human extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
The neoconservative movement thrilled to what it called the "unipolar moment." After the
AND
an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.

====//Only// the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective//__risk management__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pertaining to the
AND
September 2011. For questions, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.

====The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention Three is Energy Security </span>=== 

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key oil, nuclear and LNG terminals</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – NiyaziOnur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s empirically proven that these forms of infrastructure are highly-targeted</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – NiyaziOnur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
3.2.2.1 Critical Coastal Targets. Maritime terrorism has hit
AND
security systems. These new regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.

====Threescenarios:==== 

====a. __Oil__ – Attacks destroy __refineries__ and __three billion tons__ of oil==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign Relations, backgrounder. “Targets for Terrorism: Ports,” January, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports?¶ Yes. Experts warn that U
AND
-five Islamist extremists entered the United States by hiding in shipping containers.

====That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily//overcome==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11 </span>– “Oil tanker terror hijacks easy, attacks complex,” 5-21, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-05-21-terror-plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential
AND
pull off a terror attack on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.

====Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin, Masters in IR from Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
If the conflict-ridden and oil-rich Middle East today is crucial to
AND
before reaching the zenith of a disaster which is already in the making.

====b. __Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__terrorattacks==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study says nuclear plant designs need stepped-up attention to security,” Government Security Magazine, [[http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/25600?c=infrastructure_protection]].
While protections for nuclear plants from possible terror attacks have improved dramatically since 9/
AND
environment. Zirconium is the material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.

====Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>.Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]].
"As a physician, I contend that nuclear technology threatens life on our planet
AND
, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and parts of South America.

====c. __LNG__ – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

====LNG explosions outweigh nuclearwar==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3Dbrittlepower3ptcombo.pdf%26title%3Dbrit/|**Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.**]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

=NEGATIVE= 

Greenhill Round 2 vs. Jesuit OV (Port Security)