[[toc]]
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
No pics

Ought is an obligation

V- Fulfilling governmental obligations


<span class="s1"> </span>

<span class="s1">Only utilitarianism recognizes each individuals equal worth. </span>

<span class="s1">Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), p. 1063-1156. Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. <span class="s7">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span>.</span>

<span class="s5">On one side...</span> to do so.


<span class="s1">Even respect for the rationality of persons mandates consequentialism. </span>
<span class="s1">Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. Published by Oxford University Press. 1996. (p.142). </span>

<span class="s2">**If I sacrifice some ...** **to save many**</span><span class="s1">**.**</span>

<span class="s1">s - protecting rights </span>

<span class="s12">**Morality and Foreign Policy.** <span class="s13">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/author/george-f-kennan/index.html|George F. Kennan]]</span> From Foreign Affairs, <span class="s13">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/1985/2.html|Winter 1985/86]]</span> </span><span class="s1">George F. Kennan is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton. Copyright © 1985 by George F. Kennan.</span>

<span class="s4">Second, let us... basis of them.</span>

<span class="s1">The government is only legitimate if it protects the rights of its citizens. </span>

<span class="s1">Just Say No to Retribution, Edward Rubin (University of Pennsylvania Law School.), BUFFALO CRIMINAL LAW REVIEW[Vol. 7:17], 2004, </span>

<span class="s1">This Enlightenment approach ... to the Almighty.</span>


<span class="s1"> **Lipsey** defines rehabilitation to help clarify the 1AC thesis:</span>
<span class="s1">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey</span><span class="s19">1 </span><span class="s1">and Francis T. Cullen</span><span class="s19">2 1 </span><span class="s1">Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: <span class="s20">[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]]</span> </span><span class="s19">2 </span><span class="s1">Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: <span class="s20">[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|cullenft@email.uc.edu]]</span> Annual Review of Law and Social Science, volume 3, 2007</span>


<span class="s17">**Rehabilitation** </span><span class="s1">treatment </span><span class="s17">**is**</span><span class="s1"> ... antisocial behavior; Walters 1990).</span>


<span class="s1">**Other factors influence crime** </span>
<span class="s1">GALEN STRAWSON, THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MORAL RESPONSIBILITY' (Received 15 September1993) Philosophical Studies 75: 5-24, 1994.</span>

<span class="s5">This may seem contrived, ... </span>justified to punish them. **Strawson:**

<span class="s1">GALEN STRAWSON, THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MORAL RESPONSIBILITY' (Received 15 September1993) Philosophical Studies 75: 5-24, 1994.</span>

<span class="s17">**We are what ...**</span><span class="s1"> choice</span><span class="s17">, **suffices to**</span>


<span class="s1">**Contention 2:** Rehabilitation is effective at reducing crime.</span>

<span class="s1">The most comprehensive studies prove that even the lowest mean reductions in recidivism for rehab are greater than the best results that sanctions could produce. **Lipsey and Cullen:** </span>

<span class="s1">THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey</span><span class="s19">1 </span><span class="s1">and Francis T. Cullen</span><span class="s19">2 1 </span><span class="s1">Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: <span class="s20">[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]]</span> </span><span class="s19">2 </span><span class="s1">Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: <span class="s20">[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|cullenft@email.uc.edu]]</span> Annual Review of Law and Social Science, volume 3, 2007</span>

<span class="s2">**This review has ...** **meta-analysis of sanctions.**</span>

<span class="s1">Rehabilitation, specifically cognitive-behavioral therapy, is particularly effective at reducing recidivism among adults and juveniles – meta-analysis proves, **Landenberger et al.** </span>

<span class="s1">The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies</span>
<span class="s1">Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18</span><span class="s19">th </span><span class="s1">Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or <span class="s24">[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]]</span>. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH)</span>
<span class="s1">In press, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span class="s2">**Several well conducted...** **compared to control groups.**</span>

<span class="s1">**Landenberger and Lipsey’s** study on the effectiveness of rehabilitation produced incredible results; they explain their conclusion:</span>

<span class="s1">The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies</span>
<span class="s1">Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18</span><span class="s19">th </span><span class="s1">Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or <span class="s24">[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]]</span>. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH)</span>
<span class="s1">In press, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005</span>

<span class="s2">**When the corresponding ...** **this meta- analysis.**</span>

<span class="s1">There are four impacts to recidivism. </span>

<span class="s1">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span class="s5">The effects of ...cannot be understated</span><span class="s7">. </span>
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]