=====[[toc]]===== 
email michelle.borbon (at) gmail.com for aff cites
or carmela.chaney (at) gmail.com for neg cites

=Affirmative= 
===== ===== 
===== ===== 
===Arctic Ports aff=== 
====Plan text:==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment for a deepwater port in the northern slope of Alaska.
=====Contention 1 is the Colder War===== 
Melting ice is opening up the Arctic now
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Reuters 10/12</span> (October 17, “[[@http://en.ria.ru/business/20121017/176696586.html|Arctic Sea Route to Open Year-Round in 2013 - Scientists]]”,[[@http://en.ria.ru/business/20121017/176696586.html]])
The record reduction in Arcticpack-ice this year has created favorable conditions for year
AND
20 days, increasing fuel efficiency and significantly reducing the cost of shipment.
======Scenario 1- Russia====== 
1. The Arctic is a zone of competition- Lack of investment cedes control to Russia and leaves the US vulnerable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Conley 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(December 25, Heather Conley- Heather A. Conley is the director of the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former deputy assistant secretary of state. She is the author of "A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective," forthcoming from CSIS, “The Colder War: U.S., Russia and Others Are Vying for Control of Santa’s Backyard”, Lexis)</span>

Santa Claus may see you when you're sleeping, but NORAD makes sure it sees
AND
needs to act before the opportunity, like the ice, melts away.

2. Russian cooperation is false- recent behavior proves
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dowd 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(December 1, Alan Dowd- Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, research specialties include defense, security and transatlantic relations, serves as an adjunct professor at Butler University, where he teaches foreign policy and history, was a senior fellow with the Sagamore Institute and, earlier, director of the Hudson Institute's corporate headquarters, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic”, http://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979)</span>

Given the Arctic’s vast supply of energy resources and the world’s growing energy demands,
AND
is signaling its seriousness about claiming most of the Arctic as its own.

3. Arctic competition leads to a US-Russia war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wallace and Staples 10</span> (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">February, Michael Wallace- Professor of Political Science at the University of British Colombia, Steven Staples, President and Founder of the Rideau Institute, well-known commentator, and author of Missile Defence: Round One, The Rideau Institutes primary activities are independent research, advocacy and consulting. It aids decision makers, opinion leaders and the public through research, analysis and commentary on public policy, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue”, http://www.pugwashgroup.ca/events/documents/2010/2010.03.11-arctic-nuclear-report.pdf)</span>

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.
AND
in which nuclear powers find themselves in military confrontation can be taken lightly.

4. Only scenario for extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bostrom 02</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Nick, PhD, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)

A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in
AND
preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

5. A strong Arctic presence is a prerequisite to cooperation with Russia
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dowd 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(December 1, Alan Dowd- Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute, research specialties include defense, security and transatlantic relations, serves as an adjunct professor at Butler University, where he teaches foreign policy and history, was a senior fellow with the Sagamore Institute and, earlier, director of the Hudson Institute's corporate headquarters, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic”, http://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979)</span>

One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by
AND
few other options than standing together or allowing Russia to divide and conquer.

6. Projecting U.S. sovereignty is key to deterrence- solves conflict escalation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coffey 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(August 16, Luke Coffey- Margaret Thatcher Fellow in the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, served at the UK Ministry of Defence as senior special adviser to the British Defense Secretary, has testified before Congress on NATO and trans-Atlantic security issues, former commissioned officer in the United States Army, “Arctic Security”, http://www.marsecreview.com/2012/08/arctic-security/)</span>

The Arctic region is home to some of the roughest terrain and harshest weather found
AND
European Commission should be excluded from having a formal role in Arctic matters.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">7. Constructing a deepwater port is key to projecting U.S. sovereignty and a successful Coast Guard presence </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cohen 10</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(June 15, Ariel Cohen Ph.D.- earned his doctorate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University in Massachusetts, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, “From Russian Competition to Natural Resources Access: Recasting U.S. Arctic Policy”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/06/from-russian-competition-to-natural-resources-access-recasting-us-arctic-policy)</span>

Coast Guard Presence. Since 2008, the Healy and the CCGS Louis St.
AND
station before they must return to Point Barrow or Dutch Harbor for refueling.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">8. A Coast Guard presence is key to Arctic readiness</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coffey 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(August 16, Luke Coffey- Margaret Thatcher Fellow in the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, served at the UK Ministry of Defence as senior special adviser to the British Defense Secretary, has testified before Congress on NATO and trans-Atlantic security issues, former commissioned officer in the United States Army, “Arctic Security”, http://www.marsecreview.com/2012/08/arctic-security/)</span>

The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) has the primary responsibility for
AND
However, a strategy is meaningless without the resources to back it up.

======Scenario 2- Hegemony====== 
1. U.S. presence in the Arctic is key to maintaining hegemony
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Reiss 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(July 16, Bob Reiss- Journalist and Arctic expert, Contributor to Politics Daily and Smithsonian, bestselling New York based author of several books on the Arctic, a former Chicago Tribune reporter, books include "The Eskimo and The Oil Man," about the opening Arctic and offshore oil, Journalism degree from Northwestern, “Why we should look to the Arctic”, http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/16/opinion/reiss-arctic-drilling/index.html)</span>

This summer, big doings on America's northern doorstep will have enormous consequences to the
AND
. That's where much of our common future is about to play out.

2. U.S. Leadership Solves Great Power Wars
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang and Shi 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(January 22, Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment For International Peace, Lin, Colombia University and Consultant for the World Bank and Eurasia Group, "America's decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry", http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry)</span>

This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess<span class="underline"> and its economy remains the world’s largest, </span>the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and <span class="underline">the inevitable result will be a world that is less</span>
peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation.
AND
forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

3. Statistical data proves hege prevents war- prefer our study
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Owen 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(February 11, John Owen- Associate professor in the University of Virginia's Department of Politics, recipient of fellowships from the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, and the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford, and the Center of International Studies at Princeton, PhD in international relations from Harvard, “Don’t Discount Hegemony, [[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]])</span>

Andrew Mack and his colleagues at the Human Security Report Project are to be congratulated
AND
in part by the emergence of the United States as the global hegemon.

=====Contention 2 is Oil Spills===== 
1. Poorly designed and malfunctioning machinery make devastating oil spills inevitable.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kroh et al ‘12</span>
[Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]

In a recent report, co-authored by the National Research Council, the
AND
having a heart attack on the North Pole — you’re on your own.”
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2</span>. Lack of transportation infrastructure makes oil recovery impossible
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lacey and Conathan 12</span> ( Stephen and <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 15.3333px;">Michael,</span> July 17, 2012, a reporter/blogger for Climate Progress. <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14px;">B.A. in journalism from Franklin Pierce University. </span>Conathan is the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress. Prior to joining American Progress, Conathan <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>spent five years staffing the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Transportation’s Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast <span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Guard.“[[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/07/17/532791/podcast-the-consequences-of-drilling-for-oil-in-arctic-waters/|Podcast: The Consequences Of Offshore Oil Drilling In Arctic Waters]]” http://thinkprogress.org/tag/arctic/page/3/)</span>
MC: They’re not sure but Shell has spent several years and over $4
AND
until it melts in the spring and then they deal with it then.¶

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">3. This is a High threshold impact-one spill would destroy the arctic foodweb</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Robertson et al 10</span> (Tim Robertson and Elise De Cola. U.S. Arctic Program staff, Leslie Pearson of Pearson Consulting LLC, all in collaboration with the Pew Environment Group. November, 2010. Nuka Research and Planning Group LLC staff , He is an ICS instructor and is qualified to fill ICS staff positions in the Logistics and Planning Sections, from the Section Chief level down. Elise holds a B.S. in Environmental Science from the College of William and Mary in Virginia, and an M.A. in Marine Affairs from the University of Rhode Island. “OIL SPILL PREVENTION and RESPONSE IN THE U.S. ARCTIC: Unexamined Risks, Unacceptable Consequences“ http://www.pewtrusts.org/uploadedFiles/wwwpewtrustsorg/Reports/Protecting_ocean_life/PEW-1010_ARTIC_Report.pdf)
An Oil Spill Could Devastate the Arctic Ecosystem¶ Although it is generally accepted that
AND
and anticipating these potential ¶ interactions is critical to the spill planning process.


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">4</span>. One spill destroys global biodiversity- The arctic is a hotspot for genetic diversity
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zöckler et al 8 </span>(Gill, M.J., M. C. Raillard, C. Zöckler and R.B. Smith. March2008, with Circumpolar Biodiversity Monitoring Program,<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> an international network of scientists, government agencies, Indigenous organizations and conservation groups working together to harmonize and integrate efforts to monitor the Arctic's living resources.</span>
“Developing an Integrated and Sustained Arctic Biodiversity Monitoring Network” http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=19&cad=rja&ved=0CJkBEBYwEg&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.arctic-council.org%2Findex.php%2Fen%2Fabout%2Fdocuments%2Fcategory%2F223-8-monitoring%3Fdownload%3D835%3Acbmp-full-implementation-plan&ei=RimDUJTHHorC2QWnmICIBQ&usg=AFQjCNF1xIjNZmnZjlWrJCtHwal1kU3CrA&sig2=aj-ogx_-FGFgEx7Di4yYcA)
The Arctic’s contribution to global biodiversity is substantial. Its brief summers are intensely productive
AND
and maintain close ties to the land and sustain hundreds of distinct languages.

5. Biodiversity loss causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Young 10</span> (February 9, Ruth- PhD coastal Marine Ecology, "Biodiversity: What it is and why it's important",
http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/)

Different species within ecosystems fill particular roles, they all have a function, they
AND
on this planet possible and that our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.
===Arctic Ports Terrorism Advantage-Harvard=== 
Contention 2 is Terror
1. Terrorists will use the Arctic to launch attacks
Young 10 (Summer, “The Arctic: The New El Dorado”, Huguette Young- Senior Editor Quebecor/Sun Media based in Ottawa, Canada, Article is quoting a US Ambassador and Michael Byers an International Law Professor at the University of British Colombia, http://www.americasquarterly.org/node/1684)

However, as climate change makes the Arctic increasingly accessible, the threat may not
AND
a small plane on one of dozens of gravel airstrips along the waterway.

2. Terrorists can get nukes- they’ll use the black market.
Mowatt-Larssen 09 (August, Rolf Mowatt-Larsson- Senior fellow at the Belfer Center at Harvard University, former Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, served for 23 years as a CIA intelligence officer to include being Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, recipient of George W. Bush Award for Excellence in Counterterrorism, “The Armageddon Test”, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/8.2009.Armageddon%20Test.pdf)

It was a Stradivarius violin – one of a kind. Nuclear weapons usable materials
AND
to have been caught and neutralized before it got off the ground.24

3. Terrorism causes extinction – draws in Russia and China
Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by
AND
for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.
4. Nuclear terrorism is the #1 impact- high probability and would destroy the global economy and escalate
Brill and Luongo 12 (March 16, Kenneth C. Brill is a former U.S. ambassador to the I.A.E.A. Kenneth N. Luongo is president of the Partnership for Global Security. Both are members of the Fissile Material Working Group, a nonpartisan nongovernmental organization, “On Nuclear Terrorism”, Appeared in International Herald Tribune, lexis)

Terrorists exploit gaps in security. The current global regime for protecting the nuclear materials
AND
be an effective global nuclear security regime in place before this decade ends.
5. Even a 1% risk of nuclear terrorism outweighs
Mowatt-Larssen 09 (August, Rolf Mowatt-Larsson- Senior fellow at the Belfer Center at Harvard University, former Director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, served for 23 years as a CIA intelligence officer to include being Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, recipient of George W. Bush Award for Excellence in Counterterrorism, “The Armageddon Test”, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/8.2009.Armageddon%20Test.pdf)

It is not necessary to believe that nuclear terrorism is likely to happen in order
AND
than to regret what should have been done, on the day after.
6. Infrastructure solves- Coast Guard readiness
Conley 12 (January, Heather Conley-Heather A. Conley is the director of the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former deputy assistant secretary of state. She is the author of "A New Security Architecture for the Arctic: An American Perspective," forthcoming from CSIS, “A New Security Architecture for the Arctic”, http://csis.org/files/publication/120117_Conley_ArcticSecurity_Web.pdf)

The fourth key strategic priority highlighted in NSPD-66 is related to preventing terrorism
AND
Coast Guard cutter assisted a 20-foot skiff near Barrow, Alaska.

===REM advantage Apache Junction=== 
Increasing production of rare earth metals is vital- Chinese control puts the economy and our military at risk
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brennan 13</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(1/10, Elliot Brennan- Editor and a project coordinator at the Institute for Security and Development Policy, Masters in European and International Studies, Diploma in International Crisis Management from the Swedish National Defense College, “The Next Oil?: Rare Earth Metals”, http://thediplomat.com/2013/01/10/the-new-prize-china-and-indias-rare-earth-scramble/)</span>

Rare earth metals (REM) are increasingly becoming a critical strategic resource. The
AND
to purchase as much as 20 percent of its REM imports from India.

Status quo fixes are failing- new REM supply from Alaska is vital
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ABM 13</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(January 30, Alaska Business Monthly, “Senator McGuire Introduces Legislation Urging Increased Production of Rare Earth Elements in Alaska”, http://www.akbizmag.com/Alaska-Business-Monthly/January-2013/Senator-McGuire-Introduces-Legislation-Urging-Increased-Production-of-Rare-Earth-Elements-in-Alaska/)</span>

JUNEAU-Senator Lesil McGuire, R-Anchorage, today introduced a resolution aimed
AND
agencies that deal with permitting to expedite consideration and issuance of REE permits.
REM dependence leads to great power war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anthony 11 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(12/30, Lead Editor at Ziff Davis Inc. Graduated from the University of Essex, Columnist, Editor at AOL News specializing in defense issues, “Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China”http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2)</span>

The doomsday event that everyone is praying will never come to pass, but which
AND
different ways of storing energy or displaying images. My money’s on [[http://www.extremetech.com/tag/graphene|graphene]].

A deepwater Arctic port is key to domestic REM production
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hobson 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(January 10, Kriz Hobson- energy and environmental correspondent for the National Journal, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">was a Nieman Foundation Journalism Fellow at Harvard, writes a federal column for the Environmental Law Institute's Environmental Forum magazine, and she's served on the boards of directors of the Society of Environmental Journalists and Institute for Journalism and Natural Resources, “Aging infrastructure adds to woes of Alaska-bound fuel tanker”, http://www.eenews.net/public/Greenwire/2012/01/10/1)</span>

Alaska's three-member congressional delegation say Nome's fuel crisis is just the latest sign
AND
and provide a safe harbor for long-haul tankers and tourist ships.


===Methane 2AC add on=== 

New Arctic ports are also a prerequisite to safe drilling – federal action key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kroh, Conothan, and Huvos ’12</span> (Emily, Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress, Michael, s the Director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/pdf/arcticreport.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Due to the need for specially designed equipment, long supply lines, ...</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">by Congress, and by Shell and other companies before beginning exploratory drilling in the Arctic.</span>



Safe drilling and responsiveness are the only ways to avoid massive methane release

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rennie 11</span> (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,[[http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Estimates of how much methane is tied up in hydrates globally vary widely but are on the order of 1,000,000 trillion cubic feet</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">....</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">than to continue with the energy status quo and wait for melting hydrates to worsen the climate problem for us.</span>


Methane release causes extinction

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ryskin 3</span> (Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, [[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A liquid subject to gravity and completely...</span>
implicated in the nuclearwinter<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>scenario (Turco et al., 1991).




===NIB=== 
====Plan Text:==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment by implementing a National Transportation Infrastructure Bank.
====Contention 1 is the Economy==== 
Double dip recession coming now- lack of jobs, private spending, and government spending cuts
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Islam 12</span> (August 8, Frank Islam- ehe co-author of the book Renewing the American Dream: A Citizens Guide. He is also a member of the advisory committee of the US Export-Import Bank and the Department of Commerce Industry Trade Advisory Committee, "Double Dip Recession Looms Large", <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ibtimes.co.in/articles/371450/20120808/double-dip-recession-economy-america-frank-islam.htm]]</span>)

A less-than-stellar recovery of the U.S. economy,
AND
economy more vibrant. Otherwise, the global economy will be in jeopardy.

Specifically, unemployment is at record highs in transportation infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Department of the Treasury with the Council of Economic Advisors, 3/23/12 </span>
(3-23-12, The Department of the Treasury, “A New Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Investment,” http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf, p. 2, accessed 6-24-12, LH)

Among those who
AND
resulting from infrastructure
AND TWO REASONS WE SOLVE THE ECONOMY
First is jobs-
NIB solves short term- every 1 billion dollars leads to 30 thousand jobs
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">McConaghy, , and Kessler ‘11</span>
(Ryan and Jim, Deputy Director, Economic Program at Third Way Senior Vice President for Policy and a co-founder of Third Way The Third Way, “A National Infrastructure Bank”, January, pg. 5, http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf, A.D. 6/24/12, JTF)

The NIB will create jobs and support competitiveness. By providing a new and innovative
AND
built into the system, and keep pace with competition from global rivals.

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NIB solves in long term- leads to 1.9 million jobs in 10 years</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Donohue, 11</span>(Thomas J., 9/8/2011, US Chamber of Commerce, president and CEO, Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs – via better infrastructure,” http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2011/0908/The-highway-to-jobs-via-better-infrastructure, accessed 6/29/12, BS)

Likewise, the US can't let a needlessly cumbersome permitting process stand in the way
AND
1.9 million jobs over 10 years and spur untold economic growth.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Jobs key to sustained growth and recovery </span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">HINDERY & GERARD 12</span> (5/15, co-chairs of The Task Force on Jobs Creation. Hindery is also founder of Jobs First 2012 and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Gerard is international president of the United Steelworkers and a member of the executive council of the AFL-CIO[Leo Hindery, Jr. and Leo W. Gerard, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/leo-hindery-jr/job-creation_b_1517730.html]]</span>] )


The big immediate opportunity
AND
turn over and really roar.
Second is stimulus-
Austerity fails- 2 Reasons
1. History proves spending is key to jump start the economy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Davidson 09</span> (September 1, Paul- Economist, PhD in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, Professor of Excellence Emeritus at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, He is a Visiting Scholar at the Schwartz Center For Economic Policy Analysis at the New School in New York City, co-founder of the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics, The Keynes Solution- The Path to GLobal Economic Prosperity, pg 62-64)

The prosperous decade of the roaring twenties saw a decline in the national debt.
AND
This historical record validates Keynes's ideas about the operation of a capitalist economy.
2. Prefer specificity, austerity won’t fix this double dip crisis
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Patterson 12</span> (August 11, Ph.D. in economics from the University of Oklahoma, recipient of two Fulbright awards, former professor of International Economics, "The 2012 Presidential Election a Referendum on Stimulus versus Austerity: Who's Right (or Wrong) Obama or Romney?", <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-2012-Presidential-Elec-by-Seymour-Patterson-120811-220.html]]</span>)

There exist multiple approaches or competing views for rescuing the U.S. economy
AND
Francois Hollande, who is not likely to pursue austerity as a policy.

Only massive federal spending can jump-start the economy- states can't solve
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Davidson 09</span> (September 1, Paul- Economist, PhD in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania, Professor of Excellence Emeritus at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, He is a Visiting Scholar at the Schwartz Center For Economic Policy Analysis at the New School in New York City, co-founder of the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics, The Keynes Solution- The Path to GLobal Economic Prosperity, pg 54-59)

What determines whether firms hire or fire workers? Expectations of increasing sales provides the
AND
, even if they inherit a government with a smaller total national debt.

Investment in infrastructure solves- multiplier effect of 2.8
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Han 12</span> (February, Xue Han- Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec's branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, "Why Invest in Infrastructure?", <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/storage/publications/Why_Invest_in_Infrastructure-Necessities_and_Benefits_of_Infrastructure_Investments.pdf]]</span>)

Besides its improving effects on productive capacity as the major reason for the infrastructure investment
AND
for more spending, or at least less cuts, on infrastructure projects.

Third is competitiveness-
Transportation Infrastructure has deteriorated badly - rebuilding must be an economic priority
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Heintz, Political Economy Research Institute, Associate research professor, Pollin, Professor of economics and Garret-Peltier, Research assistant, 9</span>
(All authors at Political Economy Research Institute, James, Director of PERI, Robert, and co-director of PERI Heidi PERI, January, Political Economy Research Institute, “How Infrastructure Investments Support The U.S Economy: Employment, Productivity, and Growth,” http://americanmanufacturing.org/files/peri_aam_finaljan16_new.pdf , Pg. 3, accessed 7/19/2012, GJV)

The United States system of civilian public infrastructure has deteriorated badly over the past generation
AND
S. competitiveness and environmental sustainability that emerge directly from our main findings.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Specifically NIB boosts competitiveness – makes movement of goods streamlined</span>
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Puentes et al. 11</span>** (Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC Richard Little, Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy Stephen Goldsmith, New York City Deputy Mayor for Operations, April 5, 2011, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]</span>, Date Accessed: 7/20, JS)

Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters
AND
the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that.

Economic recovery and boosting competitiveness are key to prevent the collapse of U.S. power---that causes global great-power wars
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Khalilzad 11</span> Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024|www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]]</span>

Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.

Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal 10</span> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4
====Contention 2 is Solvency==== 
NIB solves- revitalizes infrastructure, encourage private investment, political/economic independence
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Anand 11</span> (Anika, msn news, “Bank plan would help build bridges, boost jobs”, July 6, 2011, http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/43606379/ns/today-today_news/t/bank-plan-would-help-build-bridges-boost-jobs/#.UDXBJ91lQYs)
American has fallen to 23rd in infrastructure quality globally, according to the World Economic
AND
five years. The Export-Import bank finances and insures foreign purchases.

The bank solves, opens the market for the private sector- signals federal commitment
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Puentes 12</span> (Robert, senior fellow at Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program, “What Would an Infrastructure Bank Really Do?”, July 16, 2012, http://www.tnr.com/blog/the-avenue/105017/what-would-infrastructure-bank-really-do)
First, the CBO report focuses just on transportation infrastructure and even then just on
AND
projects are out there and are likely just the tip of the iceberg.

NIB is vital to rebuilding infrastructure and spurring job market growth
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">O’Connell, Expert Business Commentator, ‘11</span> (Brian O’Connell, Expert commentator on business, Newsweek and the Wall Street Journal writer, Author of Investing in Separate Accounts, worked in Philadelphia Stock Exchange, 9/06/11 “Obama Paving Way For Infrastructure Bank,” http://www.thestreet.com/story/11239717/1/obama-paving-way-for-infrastructure-bank.html, ESW)

After the Labor Department announced last week that trims in government jobs meant the economy
AND
Americans working again, Congress will be hard pressed to close it down.

This Federal investment is crucial for multi-regional intermodal transportation projects
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cooper, Pennsylvania Secretary of Planning and Policy, 12</span>
(Donna, February 2012, Center for American Progress, “Meeting the Infrastructure Imperative: An Affordable Plan to Put Americans Back to Work Rebuilding Our Nation’s Infrastructure,” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2012/02/infrastructure.html, p. 52, accessed 6/26/12)

Ultimately if Congress has an interest in funding large-scale infrastructure improvements with limited
AND
must be closely coordinated with the executive branch and its relevant infrastructure agencies.
=Negative= 
==CP== 
===BAB=== 
Text: The United States federal government should subsidize interest payments, at a rate of 25%, for relevant sub-national authorities’ issuance of direct payment bonds for the exclusive financing of <insert>.
Build America Bonds key- spur infrastructure investment and creates jobs
Hanlon et al 10 (November 19, Seth Hanlon is Director of Fiscal Reform at the Doing What Works project at the Center for American Progress. Jordan Eizenga is a Policy Analyst with the Economic Policy team at the Center and James Hairston is a Research Assistant with the Doing What Works project, "Myth vs. Fact: The Build America Bond", [[@http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2010/11/19/8621/myth-vs-fact-the-build-america-bond/]])

Opponents of the Build America Bonds program are stepping up their attacks on this innovative
AND
savings are achieved largely by eliminating the windfall to high-income investors.

===Bering Strait CP=== 
Text- The State of Alaska should establish an Anchorage Bering Strait Project Office to take legislative steps to reserve rights of way along rail routes, look for private sector and NGO’s willing to participate in the project. Private NGOs should push for this project. Alaska should take the legislative steps to reserve rights of way along the rail route, Follow the development of current moves to bring roads to resources in the region, Envision and find a cargo that could pay the bill for an ACRL and a Bering Strait tunnel.
Look for new technologies to build rail and run railroads, as well as to build tunnels, that could reduce costs.

The CP solves and doesn’t link to politics
Barry 11 ~~[ Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, October 04, 2011, "M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", Universal Peace Federation, [[[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada-http]]:www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz~~]

Meanwhile, to best advance the Bering Strait project the following recommendations are re-
AND
the peoples from Eurasia and the Americas by constructing a Bering Strait tunnel.
==K== 
===Cap K=== 
====Links==== 
Efficiency spurs on more energy use, this causes the spread of capitalism-Jevons Paradox
Foster et al 10 (John Bellamy, is editor of Monthly Review and professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Brett Clark, assistant professor of sociology, North Carolina State University, Richard York, co-editor of Organization & Environment and associate professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Monthly Review, “Capitalism and the Curse of Energy Efficiency: The Return of the Jevons Paradox”, [[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/capitalism-and-the-curse-of-energy-efficiency]], July 2, 2012) ALK
Technological optimists have tried to argue that the rebound effect is small, and therefore
AND
overall effect is to increase scale and tempo of the system as a whole
Global Insecurity is grounded in the process of global commodification
Goodman 9 Senior Lecturer at the University of Technology in Sydney
James Goodman, “Rethinking Insecurity War and Violence,” http://www.scribd.com/doc/68230825/4/Global-capitalism-and-the-production-of-insecurity, 7-7-12, JL
To ﬁrst discuss commodiﬁcation, it is important to start with the idea that insecurity
AND
reach out to widen the realm of control against the realm of uncertainty.
Keynesian policy used to distract the public from capitalisms failures. Increases worker exploitation by increasing jobs, which prevents a shift away from capitalism.
Wolff 10 (Richard, October 23, 2010. Professor of Economics Emeritus, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Alternative Routes, “The Keynesian Revival, a Marxist Critique” [[@http://www.rdwolff.com/content/keynesian-revival-marxian-critique]], accessed 7.9.2012, KR)

Besides their secondary role, Keynesian policies also serve an important diversionary function. Governments
AND
half century, much as earlier both regimes facilitated minimal gaps between them.
In rough terms, the productivity of labor exceeded the real wage in 1890,
AND
., while tax cuts should favor those who undertake pollution reduction, etc.
====1nc==== 
Capitalism is dehumanizing – People become nothing more than material conditions of production.
Meszaros 95 (Istvan Meszaros, Hungarian Marxist philosopher and Professor Emeritus at U. Sussex. “Beyond Capital: Toward a Theory of Transition.” p. 527)

The raison d'ttre of such changes is not too difficult to identify. For through
AND
the never-ending multiplication of material wealth as the aim of production.

Our alternative is to vote negative to reject the 1ACs addiction to capital—REGARDLESS OF OUR ALTERNATIVES SOLVENCY, WE HAVE AN ETHICAL OBLIGATION TO GET OVER CAPITALISM – this is a prerequisite to the aff
MARSH 95 (JAMES L, CRITIQUE, ACTION, AND LIBERATION P. 334-335)

The basic question concerning the possibility of socialism, then, is the rationality of
AND
it as normal and sane. The prevailing rationality is profoundly irrational.12
Debate is a game of competing strategies for political change—if we win that our alternative’s methodology is superior to the statist roleplaying of the affirmative then we win—
The role of the ballot is to affirm class as a primary locus of social organization—only our framework provides a politically coherent politics of resistance. Independent case turn
Monbiot, 04 (George Monbiot, Professor of Philosophy at Bristol and Professor of Politics at Keele. Author, columnist, and political activist. “Manifesto for a New World Order.” p. 260)

All political systems are ephemeral, and we can expect any new means of governance
AND
, your comfort for elation. It depends on your willingness to act.
==DA== 
===Cutters DA=== 
A. Uniquness- Currently the Coast Guard just has enough funds for Cutters to restore mission readiness
Papp 12 (Admiral Bob Papp, Commandant of the Coast Guard, "Fiscal Year 2013 Congressional Justification",
http://www.uscg.mil/posturestatement/docs/USCG_FY2013_Congressional_Justification.pdf)

The Coast Guard’s FY 2013 Budget strikes the optimal balance between current operations and investment
AND
. Strengthen Resource and Operational Stewardship 4. Prepare for the Future Responsibly Rebuild
the Coast Guard The Coast Guard continues to focus resources on recapitalizing cutters, boats
AND
asset deliveries and to replace aging buildings, piers, and other facilities.

B. Link- Infrastructure trades off with defense spending
McKeon 12 (February 15, “[[http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/hearings-display?ContentRecord_id=c9cd49ce-b677-429c-9a9e-aaab326942a1&ContentType_id=14f995b9-dfa5-407a-9d35-56cc7152a7ed&Group_id=41030bc2-0d05-4138-841f-90b0fbaa0f88&MonthDisplay=2&YearDisplay=2012|FY13 National Defense Authorization Budget Request from the Department of Defense]]”, Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, [[http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/hearings-display?ContentRecord_id=c9cd49ce-b677-429c-9a9e-aaab326942a1&Statement_id=a1aa1bd6-f740-4684-ba5a-7bd869b0eb8f&ContentType_id=14f995b9-dfa5-407a-9d35-56cc7152a7ed&Group_id=41030bc2-0d05-4138-841f]]90b0fbaa0f88&MonthDisplay =2&YearDisplay=2012)

"Furthermore, the President’s new defense strategy “supports the national security imperative of
AND
military- is held responsible for what little deficit reduction this budget represents.


C. Internal- Cutters key to prevent terrorism, organized crime, and environmental disaster
Wolf 12 (March 11, Carol Wolf- Reporter with Bloomberg, “Coast Guard Snub by U.S. on Cutter Funds Seen as Mission Threat”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/coast-guard-snub-by-u-s-on-cutter-funds-seen-as-mission-threat.html)

The new National Security Cutter is the largest and most technically advanced ship the Coast
AND
and those warships are critical to counter-drug missions, he said.

D. Impact- Terrorism causes Extinction
Sid-Ahmed 04 (Al-Ahram political analyst (Mohamed, “Extinction!,” Al Ahram Weekly, No. 705, August/September 1,[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])

What would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists? Even if it
AND
When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.
===Elections=== 

Obama winning now- electoral college
Enstarz 10/25 (News source citing , Oct 25, 2012, “Electoral College Map 2012: Romney Loses Ground, Obama Ahead By 62 Votes”[[http://www.enstarz.com/articles/8516/20121025/electoral-college-map-2012-romney-loses-ground-obama-ahead-62-votes.htm]])

When Election Day rolls around on Nov. 6, the next president will be
AND
on 206 electoral vote to check out The Huffington Post's interactive Electoral College Map


Transportation funding unpopular – public doesn’t perceive need
Orski 12(Ken, 2/5/12, Innovation NewsBriefs publisher, New Geography “Why Pleas to Increase Infrastructure Funding Fall on Deaf Ears”, http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears, accessed 7/2/12)
There are various theories why appeals to increase infrastructure spending do not resonate with the
AND
, planners and consultants that try to make a case for more money.

The plan has been brought up before and faces huge public opposition
Barry 11 ~~[ Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, October 04, 2011, "M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", Universal Peace Federation, [[[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada-http]]:www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]], DMintz~~]
Although the Alaska-Canada rail link has been proposed in the past, there are no formalized plans to construct, operate or fund a railroad to Canada. Therefore, [the U.S. Department of Transportation] and the cooperating agencies do not consider this reasonably foreseeable.[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada-http#_ftn11|[11]]] [emphasis added]
The Rails to Resources to Ports study made headlines when released in 2007. But
AND
judged to overshadow the benefits that an ACRL might bring at this time:
The key business issue now is getting western Canada’s mineral wealth to tidewater (or market). In that context, an Alaska Canada Rail Link per se is not considered to offer a realistic solution. For example, there are large zinc deposits in Yukon.[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada-http#_ftn12|[12]]] Some argue that British Columbia should not connect rail to Alaska but rather to these zinc deposits.
In the U.S., there essentially is no public money available for building new rail. Rail funding once came from the Highway Trust Fund, but it is now close to insolvency according to the Congressional Budget Office.[[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada-http#_ftn13|[13]]]
The present assessment is that the role of government in the U.S.
AND
is that an ACRL may only eventually be built with private funding.

Romney’s increased China bashing and threat construction leads to US-China confrontation
Rogin 8/28/12 (Josh, covers national security and foreign policy for the Washington Post and staff writer of Foreign Policy. Graduate of George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs¶ “[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/08/28/chinese_media_slams_romney_as_convention_begins|Chinese media slams Romney as convention begins]]” http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/08/28/chinese_media_slams_romney_as_convention_begins)
"By any standard, the U.S. Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney's
AND
"to discourage any aggressive or coercive behavior by China against its neighbors.”


Relations are key to stopping US China nuclear war and global chaos.
Wittner 11 ( Lawrence S., 10/29/11, Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York/Albany “Is a Nuclear War with China Possible?” http://www.huntingtonnews.net/14446)
But what would that victory entail? A nuclear attack by China would immediately slaughter
AND
that of the world, they should be working to encourage these policies.¶




==T== 
===Vehicles=== 
Interpretation- Vehicles are part of our transportation system, not our transportation infrastructure
Amosweb 12 (“Taking a Ride on TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE” A pedestrian’s guide to the economy, 2012, [[http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=pdg&c=dsp&k=47]])
We usually think about transportation in terms of
AND
need tracks, airplanes need airports, and boats need docks and ports.

===Substantial=== 
Contextually, substantial transportation infrastructure investment is 48 billion
Giamberardino and Pallasch 10 (Marco and Brian, Co-Chairs of the Water Resource Coalition, January 2010, Water Resource Coalition eNewsletter, [[http://www.waterresourcescoalition.org/files/contrib/January2010.html]]) Azimi

Before the House of Representatives broke for the holidays the Chamber passed the "Jobs
AND
navigable waterways administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

===Loan Guarantees=== 
INTERPRETATION: Loan guarantees are not investment- There are four differences in financing literature between the two
Kumar 10 (Prof. Vinod Kumar, post graduate degree in commerce from H.P. University, “Investment Vs Loan”, JUNE 16, 2010 [[http://www.svtuition.org/2010/06/investment-vs-loan.html]])
I have already defined both Investment and Loan and showed in my Finance Chart.
AND
analysis, project planning, real option analysis and capital asset pricing model.

==Neg Strats== 
=====Brophy===== 
**Round 2 - smart tech**
**1nc** - cap K, elections, BAB CP, T sub, case
**2nr** - elections, case

**​Round 4** - port dredging
**1nc-** cutters DA, elections, BAB CP, case
**2nr** - BAB CP, case

**Quarters -** title XI
**1nc -** T loan guarantees, elections, BAB CP, case
**2nr** - elections, case

=====Meadows===== 
**Round 2 -** icebreakers
**1nc -** T-vehicles, BAB, elections, cutters DA, case
**2nr -** BAB, elections
**Round 3 -** Bering strait
**1nc -** T infrastructure, Cap, Elections, Alaska, case
**2nr -** cap
**Round 6 -** vmt
**1nc-** t substantial, cap, elections, seagrass advantage cp, case
**2nr-** elections, case


The Glenbrooks
----
**Round 2-** Traverse City Central, HSR with warming and econ advantages.
**1NC-** BAB, politics, T sub, fiscal discipline DA
**2NR-** case, politics

**Round 4**- niles west Port security
**1NC-** BABs, Tsub, case, politics
**2NR-** politics, BAB

**Round 6-** hip hop performance aff
**1NC-** framework, cap k, case
**2NR**- framework lol

ASU
----
**Round 2-** Ruralism Performance
**1NC-** cap K, framework, water tradeoff DA, on case fracking turn,
**2NR-** framework lol

**Round 3-** Dam Removal
**1NC**- VTL turn on case, T sub, T dams arent transportation, immigration reform, bond market DA
**2NR-** T sub

**Round 6-** Tribal Infrastructure Bank
**1NC-** solar wind/energyCP, automobility bad, immigration reform DA, cap K,
**2NR-** Solar Wind CP, politics

======Harvard====== 
**Round 1-** Berring Streit Kritikal (they still defended implementation/fiat)
**1NC-** Berring Streit CP, cap K, immigration reform, t sub
**2NR-** berring streit cp, immig reform

**Round 3**- Courts Aff
**1NC**- Buddhism K, T-investment is tangible, immig. reform, malthus
**2NR-** politics, case

**Round 4-** JDDSP
**1NC-** t- not military, BAB cp, immigration reform, heg turns on case
**2NR-** BAB politics
[[include component="page" page="space.template.Footer" title="Meadows" editable="1"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">Efficiency spurs on more energy use, this causes the spread of capitalism-Jevons Paradox</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">Foster et al 10 (John Bellamy, is editor of Monthly Review and professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Brett Clark, assistant professor of sociology, North Carolina State University, Richard York, co-editor of Organization & Environment and associate professor of sociology, University of Oregon, Monthly Review, “Capitalism and the Curse of Energy Efficiency: The Return of the Jevons Paradox”, [[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/capitalism-and-the-curse-of-energy-efficiency]], July 2, 2012) ALK</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">Technological optimists have tried to argue that the rebound effect is small, and therefore</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">overall effect is to increase scale and tempo of the system as a whole</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">Global Insecurity is grounded in the process of global commodification</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">Goodman 9 Senior Lecturer at the University of Technology in Sydney</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">James Goodman, “Rethinking Insecurity War and Violence,” http://www.scribd.com/doc/68230825/4/Global-capitalism-and-the-production-of-insecurity, 7-7-12, JL</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">To ﬁrst discuss commodiﬁcation, it is important to start with the idea that insecurity</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6123.5px; width: 1px;">reach out to widen the realm of control against the realm of uncertainty.</span>