[[toc]]
= = 
=Contact= 
skirtsteak@gmail.com
=notes= 
if you can't find cites here, look on the other coronado page. any arguments specific to this team will ONLY be posted on this page, however.
=Affirmative= 
Inherency
The US currently lacks sufficient ice breaker capabilities to open up sea lanes of transportation around the United States
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beilinson</span>, Deputy Editor of Popular Mechanics, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> (Jerry, February 17th, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now,” Popular Mechanics, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/]]infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195)

Plan Text
The United States federal government should modernize the icebreaker fleet for icebreaking operations in the United States.

Advantage 1 is Arctic War
The Arctic zone will be the next arena for global military conflict – the US has fallen behind in the currently militarizing ice race
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huffington Post </span>4/16/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, “Arctic Climate Change Opening Region To New Military Activity.” Eric Talmadge. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change-military-activity_n_1427565.html

Ice breakers are a key to keeping up – failure to modernize the fleet ensures that the US will fall behind
Tyler <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Davis, </span>Young Leaders Program at Heritage Foundation,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 11 </span>(December 9, 2011The Lone Icebreaker: U.S. Sovereignty in the Arctic,” [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/|__http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/__]], Heritage foundation)

Ice breakers are the biggest internal link to all US activity in the Arctic – the plan is key to ensuring US leadership
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke, specialist in naval affairs, 6/14. </span>Ronald O’Rourke “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress.” Congressional Research Service. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf
This allows the US to play a critical role in de-escalating Arctic conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NRC et al 07 </span>(National Research Council , Polar Research Board,Marine Board (MB)Earth and Life Studies (DELS)Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “ Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs.” Online PDF at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753#orgs )
Absent de-escalation, current militarization will ensures Arctic conflicts go nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wallace and Staples, 10</span>(Michael Wallace and Steven Staples. *Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia AND ** President of the Rideau Institute in Ottawa “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: A Task Long Overdue,”[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf|__http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf__]]


Advantage 2 is US Sea Lanes
China is greatly interested in Arctic Resources, already have a massive icebreaker Seidler 01-25-13<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Chirstoph Seidler January 25 2013, http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/growing-chinese-interest-in-the-arctic-worries-international-community-a-879654.html)</span>
Ice breakers are key to giving the US economic control of Arctic sea lanes – solves Chinese dominance and allows the US to control the international economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Treadwell</span>, Lieutenant Governor of Alaska, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">’11</span> (Mead, December 1, “America is Missing the Boat” Congressional Testimony United States House of Representatives Committee Transportation on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyCGMT/2011-12-1-Treadwell.pdf)
Relative US economic strength key to preventing aggressive Chinese adventurism and war over Taiwan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pape</span>, PolSci Prof at UChicago, ‘<span style="font-size: 13pt;">9</span> (Robert, January, “Empire Falls” http://nationalinterest.org/article/empire-falls-2952)
China will escalate the conflict – perception of rational escalation ensures US gets drawn into the nuclear arms race
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser</span>, PolSci Prof at Goerge Washington, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">’11</span> (Charles, March/April, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs, Vol 90 Issue 2, EbscoHost)
A protracted decline in the US economy will shred global economic resilience and lead to a complete breakdown of the world economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mandelbaum</span>, Director of Foreign Policy Program at John Hopkins, ‘<span style="font-size: 13pt;">5</span> (Michael, “The Case for Goliath: How America Acts as the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century” p 192-195)
Economic collapse causes global wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal ‘10</span> director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg 213-215)



Advantage 3 is Science Leadership
Scenario 1 – Warming
Warming is real and anthropogenic—models and scientific consensus are on our side
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahmstorf 8 </span>(Richard. Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University. Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto. Edited by Ernesto Zedillo. “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” Page 42-49)
Polar Research is pivotal to create a societal concern and scientific initiative necessary to solve global warming
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NRC et al 07 </span>(National Research Council , Polar Research Board,Marine Board (MB)Earth and Life Studies (DELS)Transportation Research Board, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard , “ Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World:An Assessment of U.S. Needs.” Online PDF at http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753#orgs )
U.S. climate leadership is key to generate accurate satellite data, begin mitigation, guide adaptation, and determine effective policies.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis et al. 10</span> [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf, BJM]
Warming causes extinction and outweighs nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lynas 7</span> (Mark, winner of the Royal Society Prize for Science Books, advisor on climate change to the President of the Maldives, Visiting Research Associate at Oxford University’s School of Geography and the Environment, The Guardian, “Six Steps to Hell,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2007/apr/23/scienceandnature.climatechange]])
Scenario 2 is oil spills
Recent events have stoked anxieties about a oil spill
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Globe and Mail 13</span>
(The Globe and Mail, February 11, 2013, “Arctic Oil: Much Promise, but to be Handled with Care,” http://www.theglobeandmail.com/commentary/editorials/arctic-oil-much-promise-but-to-be-handled-with-care/article8395621/)

Icebreakers are key to mitigating oil spills – opening up sea lanes allows for rapid response times
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan </span>2/27/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. John A. Sullivan, news editor for Oil and Gas Investor. “Coast Guard Muscles Up Arctic Presence in Advance of Drilling.” Natural Gas Week. Lexis. [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/lnacui2api/returnTo.do?returnToKey=20_T15105743963]]</span>

Arctic oil spills would devastate the local ecosystem
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kollewe and Macalister </span>4/11/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>. Julia Kollewe and Terry Macalister. “Arctic oil rush will ruin ecosystem, warns Lloyd's of London.” The Guardian. [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/apr/12/lloyds-london-warns-risks-arctic-oil-drilling]]

Arctic ecosystem key to global biodiversity
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gill,</span> Chair of the Circumpolar Biodiversity Monitoring Program, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2009. </span>Michael Gill, 3-6 March 2009, “ABSTRACT: BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES.” UNESCO. http://www.unesco.org/csi/LINKS/monaco-abstracts/Gill_abstract_MonacoUNESCOarctic.pdf

=Negative= 
spending da, buy america DA, states CP, buy America CP.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]