See the other Harker pages for additional disclosure. If I've read something that isn't here or on the other Harker pages email me at ray1232123 [at] gmail [dot] com.
[[toc]]
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Triple Threat AC=== 

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text: The United States federal government will abolish the death penalty and implement rehabilitative programs instead, thereby signifying a shift from the retributive status quo to a more rehabilitative criminal justice system.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The Socialist Alternative advocates the plan.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Socialist Alternative, http://www.socialistalternative.org/about/</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Fight discrimination …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abolish the death penalty</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Inherency- the death penalty still stands. Equal Justice Initiative:</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Equal Justice Initiative, [[http://www.eji.org/deathpenalty]], DEATH PENALTY</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">3170 people … federal government.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The standard is maximizing the expected utilitarian benefits within the contained universe.</span>

====__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Patriarchy</span>**__==== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Empirically, the death penalty entrenches patriarchy. Shapiro:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">ANDREA SHAPIRO, J.D., 1999, Unequal before the law: men, women, and the death penalty, American University Washington College of Law; BA., 1989, Simmons College. Presently, law clerk to the Hon. Steven G. Chappelle, Circuit Court of Charles County, Maryland, [[http://www.wcl.american.edu/journal/genderlaw/08/shapiro.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Evil Woman Theory Another theory offered to explain … judicial system when they step outside the bounds of normative femininity. 249</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Patriarchy leads to war, prolif, environmental destruction, and extinction. Warren and Cady:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Warren and Cady 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">—</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Warren is the Chair of the Philosophy Department at Macalester College and Cady is Professor of Philosophy at Hamline University (Karen and Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, p. 16, JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3810167.pdf,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional system … national, and global contexts.</span>
====== ====== 

====__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bioterror</span>**__==== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Abolishing the death penalty saves millions of dollars per case. Barnes:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Ed Barnes [Just or Not, Cost of Death Penalty Is a Killer for State Budgets] http://www.foxnews.com/us/2010/03/27/just-cost-death-penalty-killer-state-budgets/</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> Overall, according to </span><span style="font-size: 90%;">Dieter, …each.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">And state budget cuts destroy bioterror responsiveness. Ahlers:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">AHLERS ’11- senior producer, transportation and regulation, for CNN (Mike M., “Bioterror security at risk”, December 20, http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2011/12/20/bioterror-security-at-risk/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Recent and …disease outbreak</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Bioterrorism leads to extinction. Matheny:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Jason G. Matheny [Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction] [[http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Of current …respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>
====== ====== 

====__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EU-US relations</span>**__==== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Banning the death penalty is key to EU-US relations. Smith:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Simon PSmith; THE DEATH PENALTY AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: A CASE OF CONFLICT TRANSFORMATION THROUGH KNOWLEDGE</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">As discussed earlier,…to be forced and in doing so lose face. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">And EU-US relations are crucial to global economic recovery. Hutchings:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Hutchings ’10Robert, European Dialogue, a forum on US-EU Energy Security, “Why U.S. - EU Economic Co-Operation Holds The Key To Global Governance” May, 15 http://www.europesworld.org/NewEnglish/Home_old/Article/tabid/191/ArticleType/ArticleView/ArticleID/21578/language/en-US/WhyUSEUeconomiccooperationholdsthekeytoglobalgovernance.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The globalised …the G20 table. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline heightens the risk of global nuclear conflict and extinction. Burrows:</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Mathew J. Burrows, //Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World//—an unclassified report by the NIC published every four years that projects trends over a 15-year period, has served in the Central Intelligence Agency since 1986, holds a Ph.D. in European History from Cambridge University (“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” //The Washington Quarterly//, Volume 32, Issue 2, April, Available Online at http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report …</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 7pt;"> could lead to increased</span>

==Negative== 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] [[media type="custom" key="22276882"]]