[[toc]]
=Contact Information= 
Kris Trivedi: kristrivedi@me.com
Doljinsuren (Jessie) Amgalanjargal: dolamg1@nths219.org
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Wake Forest-Port Security== 
This is the most recent edition of the 1AC read at the Wake Forest Early Bird in Winston-Salem, NC

===Plan Text=== 
**The United States federal government should increase its funding of Port Security.**
===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span>[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AAPA urges Congress ...........</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at the federal level.</span>


===Contention 2 is Terrorism=== 

====Scenario 1 is Weapons of Mass Destruction==== 
**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ..... Our nation can no longer risk such delays.</span>
==== ==== 
**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvan 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Department of Homeland Security will ........</span> radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME)
A nuclear attack by terrorists ...... we will all be losers.

**Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, ......</span> chances of nuclear restraint.

**War with Russia outweighs - It’s the only existential risk**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bostrom 2</span><span style="background-color: white;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span> [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]<span style="background-color: white;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A much greater existential risk e..........we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>
==== ==== 
**Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>The inspector general for.......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>
==== ==== 
**That causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, ........ HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>
==== ==== 
**New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter 10</span> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the case of the United States, the </span>r......<span style="font-size: 7pt;">threat does not just reflect a commitment to retaliate; it </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> creates a commitment”.</span>
==== ==== 
====Scenario 2 is Maritime Power==== 

**A port attack shuts down naval power**
**Watts 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span>__Connecting the continental ............__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">faced this threat before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience? </span>

**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf
The<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>Navy has considerable assets stationed in or near several American ports<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, most notably Norfolk, Virginia and San Diego, California. Although the Navy has primary responsibility for protecting these ships, other port interests also have concerns about the possibility of terrorists damaging or sinking one of these vessels, particularly those that are nuclear-powered. Finally, </span>17 ports have been designated “strategic” <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by the Department of Defense and the Department of Transportatio</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n. 12 </span>They are<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> so </span>designated because in the event of a large-scale military deployment, DOD would transport more than ninety-five percent of all equipment and supplies needed for military operations by sea. These ports are therefore vital to national security<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If the strategic ports (or the ships carrying military supplies) were attacked, not only could massive civilian casualties result, but also valuable cargo and time could be lost, as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources. </span>

**Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In light of global economic and strategic realities, .........When the U.S. Navy can no longer do so, it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>


====Scenario 3 is Military Power==== 
**Ports are key to overall military power – readiness and efficiency**
**AAPA Seaports 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. ports essential to war cargo efforts Rail infrastructure demands funding [[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf]]</span>
__Vital national efforts .........__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">right before the American order came into being.</span>

**It’s only a matter of time before an attack occurs – the only question is when and where**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 6</span>(Stephen, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford, “Port Security Is Still a House of Cards” 3/9/2006, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/continued-vulnerability-global-maritime-transportation-system/p10074]])
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When it comes to port security, ........ make major new investments in security. </span>

===Contention 3 is the Economy=== 
**Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, a........</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> that make up international trade.</span>
==== ==== 
**Attacks don’t need to be successful - perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence**
**Clark et al. 7**. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, in this new world o.......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>

**Economic decline causes war and miscalculation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>economic ........<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Hill 9/5</span> (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)
The United States is losing ground ...... and return the world to <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a </span>sustainable growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> path.”</span>

**So is growth and unemployment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NYT 8/29</span> (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]], 8/29/12)
Government data<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> released Wednesday </span>........<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> substantially reduce unemployment, which is at 8.3 percent</span>

**Economic growth is key to prevent conflict**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bernauera 10</span> (Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span>r........<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> well supported by the existing literature. </span>

**Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity—facilitate commerce and contribute to national economic growth**
**PR Newswire 11**(American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, the Port Security Grant Program h.........</span> regional __and national economic growth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence**
**Palac-McMiken 5**(Evanor Palac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>counter-terrorism measures<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> .....remembered that modelling of a particular scenario is simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>
==== ==== 
**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)
__The loss of investor__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and creditor</span> __c.....__**__negative feedback effects__**__.__


**The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritelli 5</span> – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ships are the primary mode of transportation .....</span> __filing process for U.S. importers.__

**U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boudreux 6</span>(Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]])

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">During the past 30 years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Solomon ........</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> tolerate, harm to these foreigners. </span>

===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 
**Bolstering security infrastructure at ports via the PSGP is key to solve**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holmes 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John M., Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles, Testimony Before The United States House of Representatives, Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency –Director and State & Local Witnesses” [[http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, port security has become a top priority for U.S. ports, ....... of these efforts as a result of grant funding reductions.</span>



=Negative= 
Neg Cites Coming SOON!
:-)
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]