=Email me at jerrychen620@gmail.com with any questions/requests.= 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
__**Crime AC**__
Definition of rehab vs. retribution.
**BACIK**
Ivana Bacik, Reid Professor of Criminal Law, Criminology and Penology at Trinity College, Dublin Law School. "Crime and Punishment - Retribution or Rehabilitation," The Bar Council of Ireland Law Library, Janurary 2001.

Pragmatism- there is no absolute truth- any system of justification devolves into infinite regress.
**JAMES**
William James. "Pragmatism's Conception of Truth". Lecture 6 in Pragmatism: A new name for some old ways of thinking. New York: Longman Green and Co (1907): 76-91.

Crime is largely the result of complex social and environmental factors.
**SIMONS AND BURT**
Ronald L. Simons and Callie Harbin Burt. Ronald L. Simons, Department of Sociology, University of Georgia. Callie Harbin Burt, University of Massachusetts. "LEARNING TO BE BAD: ADVERSE SOCIAL CONDITIONS, SOCIAL SCHEMAS, AND CRIME." 2011

Focusing on individual guilt fails to account for the injustices that fuel criminal behavior.
**REIMAN**
Jeffrey Reiman. "A Radical Perspective on Crime." Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach, ed. Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.

Retribution fails to account for diminished culpability of offenders and increases recidivism. Only rehab focuses on solving the root cause of crime.
**SMITH**
Nick Smith, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of New Hampshire. Previously a staff attorney for the United States Court of Appeals. University of New Hampshire. Encyclopedia of Criminal Justice. Department of Philosophy.

Rehab programs generates millions in revenue.
**FRANCO**
Celinda Franco, Specialist in Crime Policy. CRS Report for Congress, Prepared for Members and Committees of Congress. "Drug Courts: Background, Effectiveness, and Policy Issues for Congress." October 2010.

Research shows that rehabilitation is extremely effective at reducing crime.
**CULLEN**
Francis T. Cullen and Paul Gendreau. Francis T. Cullen is Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice with the University of Cincinnati. Paul Gendreau is Director, Centre for Criminal Justice Studies, and Professor of Psychology with the University of New Brunswick at Saint John. Volume 3. "Assessing Correctional Rehabilitation: Policy, Practice, and Prospects." 2000.

Rehab can be consistent with proportionality.
**RUBIN**
Edward Rubin, Professor of Law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, "Just Say No to Retribution," Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper Series Research Paper No. 36, 2003.

Only rehab respects rights. Retribution excludes criminals.
**ROTMAN**
Edgardo Rotman, Ph.D. Visiting Researcher, Harvard Law School. Advanced Degree in Criminology. "Do Criminal Offenders have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation?" Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology. 1986; 77 (4): 1023-1068.

Retribution lacks an objective metric to determine the degree of punishment.
**ROEBUCK**
Greg Roebuck David Wood, Melbourne Law School professors, A Retributive Argument Against Punishment, Criminal Law and Philosophy, Volume 5, Issue 1, 2011, http://ssrn.com/abstract=1743270, 2011

__**Forgiveness AC**__
**ADAMS** clarifies rehabilitation and retribution
Joseph Q. Adams, Georgia State University. "Retribution Requires Rehabilitation." Department of Philosophy. 2008.

Morality can only be grounded in communal discourse and interdependent social practices.
**HASTE**
Helen Haste. University of Bath, Department of Psychology. "Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality." 1998.

Agency is the only morally relevant characteristic of human beings since it's the condition that allows morality to function by judging actions. This means we must respect individuals as self-defining agents.
**BADHWAR**
Badhwar, N. K. (1996). Moral Worth and the Worth of Rights. Hoover Press, 89–115.

This justifies an ethic of forgiveness.
An ethic of forgiveness stems from solidarity in human nature, the idea that we are all moral agents capable of wrongdoing.
**GARRARD**
Eve Garrard. "Forgiveness and the Holocaust." 2002.

Forgiveness restores the relational bonds between moral agents and thus, is a necessary component of any theory of punishment. **HOLMGREN**
Margaret R. Holmgren, Professor of Philosophy, Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Iowa State University. "Forgiveness and the Intrinsic Value of Persons." American Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 30, No. 4 (Oct., 1993), pp. 341-352. University of Illinois Press on behalf of North American Philosophical Publications.

Rehab is forgiving because it affirms human solidarity by reforming criminals to be responsible members of the community.
**RAYNOR**
Peter Raynor, Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Swansea University, and Gwen Robinson, Senior Lecturer in Criminal Justice, Sheffield University. "WHY HELP OFFENDERS? ARGUMENTS FOR REHABILITATION AS A PENAL STRATEGY." University of Bucharest. Vol. 1, No. 1, 2009.

Retribution isn't forgiving. Retribution demands atonement, the opposite of forgiveness.
**WATKINS**
Jeremy Watkins, Professor of Philosophy at Oxford. "Forgiveness and its Place in Ethics." Theoria Vol. 71 (2005): 43-61.

Retribution sacrifices the criminal to the community. Only forgiveness through rehab restores the criminal to the community.
**DUFF**
Antony Duff. "Punishment, Communication, and Community."

Two wrongs don’t make a right, making retribution nonsensical. You can’t unrape or unkill a victim, so it can't create any benefit to the community.
**MACKIE**
J. L. Mackie. "Morality and the Retributive Emotions." Criminal Justice Ethics. 1982.

Rehab best maintains and restores confidence in the social order, which is the best assurance for the victim and society that criminals will not reoffend.
**ADAMS**
Joseph Q. Adams, Georgia State University. "Retribution Requires Rehabilitation." Philosophy Theses, Department of Philosophy. 2008.

==Negative== 
__**Biopower NC**__
Government power is derived from the communication of its constituents. This makes it impermissible to limit the discourse of its citizens. **FLYNN**
Jeffrey Flynn, Middlebury College. "Communicative Power in Habermas’s Theory of Democracy," European Journal of Political Theory.

The logic of rehabilitation, the idea that individuals should be cured and not merely punished, is the starting point of biopower; the criminal is no longer treated as a rational person but a diseased patient in need of a cure.
**LEWIS**
C. S. Lewis. "The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment." AMCAP Journal. Vol. 13, No. 1. 1987.

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">This form of modern governmentality takes responsibility for optimizing the life of whole populations. Any amount of violence, no matter how potentially life annihilating, becomes justified.</span>
**LEWIS 2**

__**Desert NC**__
Only the concept of desert allows individuals to control how they are treated by others.
**RACHELS**
Rachels, James. "Punishment and Desert," originally appeared in Ethics in Practice, edited by Hugh LaFollette (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1997), pp. 470-479.

If desert is a side constraint on any ethical theory, than we must value retribution over rehabilitation.
**LESSNOFF** defines "retribution" as
Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, "TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT." Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly.
"By 'the retributive the<span style="line-height: 1.5;">ory'...irrelevant to its justification."</span>

We can always hold people responsible for what they have willed, not what they might will.
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">FURROW</span>**
Dwight Furrow. “Moral Agency.” Ethics. 2005.

=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
__**Due Process AC**__
As a starting point for morality, all moral theories presume the inherent worth of moral agents as grounds for constraints upon action, otherwise morality would have no reason to require anything.
**QUINN**
Quinn, Warren S. Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). JSTOR. <http://www.jstor.org<span style="line-height: 1.5;">/stable/2185021></span>

We assert practical judgments as universal moral truth claims, so any moral rule must be applicable to all rational agents absent distinction.
**REATH**
Andrews Reath, “Formal Approaches to Kant’s Formula of Humanity,” 2009 (To appear in Sorin Baiasu and Mark Timmons, eds, Kant on Practical Justification: Interpretive Essays (Oxford University Press)

Our universal will to self-sufficiency as moral agents creates a negative obligation to non-interference with others.
**ENGSTROM**
Stephen Engstrom. Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. "Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge."

Any restriction of autonomy demands justification. Only constitutional due process protections protects individual freedom by allowing fair trials to determine guilt.
**ALLAN**
Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press.

An institutional set of impartial standards provides a procedural basis of enforcement of moral norms.
**RAWLS**
John Rawls. "A Theory of Justice, Revised Edition." 10. INSTITUTIONS AND FORMAL JUSTICE

The NDAA permits indefinite detention of noncitizens based on executive discretion, barring the right to due process and trial.
**NDAA**
The National Defense Authorization Act. H.R. 1540, 112 Cong. (2011) (enacted). Print. "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Section 1021."

Even if non-citizens are granted trial, military tribunals restrict access to adequate legal counsel, denying them a fair trial to defend themselves.
**WANG**
Tova Andrea Wang, Senior Program Officer and Democracy Fellow at The Century Foundation. "The Military Tribunals Debate." The Century Foundation. 2003.

Lower standards for evidence increase the likelihood of wrongful conviction.
**WANG 2**

Lack of judicial review prevents any recourse in wrongful convictions.
**WANG 3**

Lack of public trials and civilian jury for non-citizens subverts transparency and public scrutiny, skewing trial decisions.
**TURNER**
SERRIN TURNER, Harvard Law School, Associate Counsel for the Liberty & National Security Project at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law, and STEPHEN J. SCHULHOFER, Robert B. McKay Professor of Law at NYU Law School. "THE SECRECY PROBLEM IN TERRORISM TRIALS." LIBERTY & NATIONAL SECURITY PROJECT. BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE AT NYU SCHOOL OF LAW. 2005.

Only civilian courts have a multiple safeguards to prevent intelligence leak and promotes the use of high quality evidence, improving fair trial procedures.
**TURNER 2**

Constitutional law and historical precedent mandate that non-citizens receive the same due process protections as citizens- any alternative lacks the fair standards of civilian court.
**COLE**
David Cole, Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?.” Georgetown Law Faculty Publications. March 2010.

Violations of due process open the door for additional restrictions of civil liberties.
**MORELAND**
Thomas H. Moreland, Chair of Committee on Federal Courts. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts. THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR. 2004.

Lack of due process undermines credibility of the rule of law and encourages other countries to uphold the same standards of unfair treatment for U.S. citizens.
**RADDACK**
Jesselyn A. Radack. "You Say Defendant, I Say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process." Review of Law & Social Change. Volume 29. 2005.

==Negative== 
__**Consent NC**__
Citizenship is a morally relevant distinction.
1) Lack of mutual consent means no obligation is possible.
2) Distinct moral communities means obligations only apply to those in the state.

__**NSC CP**__
CP TEXT: The United States ought to create a National Security Court to try non-citizens accused of terrorism.
**MCCARTHY AND VELSHI**
Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court."

__**Intel DA**__
Respecting the inherent worth of individuals requires saving the greatest amount possible for an impartial decision-maker.
**RAKOWSKI**
Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” Columbia Law Review. June 1993.

I contend affirming threatens the wellbeing of US citizens- the negative advocates treatment of non-citizens accused of terrorism in military tribunals because only they protect classified information.
**ELSEA 10**
Jennifer K. Elsea, Congressional Research Service, Legislative Attorney. "The Military Commissions Act of 2009: Overview and Legal Issues." April 6, 2010.

Due to superior intelligence, status quo counterterrorism efforts are successful.
**CARAFANO et al. 11**
James Jay Carafano, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, Jena Baker McNeill, Jessica Zuckerman, Research Associate at Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, May 20, 2011, “39 Terror Plots Foiled Since 9/11: Examining Counterterrorism’s Success Stories” The Heritage Foundation.

Due process forces the public announcement and disclosure of critical secret terrorist intel.
**MCCARTHY**
Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others, and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court” AEI.

This is empirically verified.
**KRAUTHAMMER**
Charles Krauthammer, American Pulitzer Prize-winning syndicated columnist, political commentator, and physician. His column is syndicated to more than 275 newspapers and media outlets. “In defense of secret tribunals," CNN Politics. November 19th, 2001.

Disclosure requirements make foreign allies less willing to provide us with intelligence.
**MCCARTHY 2**

Good intelligence is key to counterterrorism efforts- it reduces the risk by 90%, self-reported by al-Qaeda terrorists themselves.
**COBURN 11**
Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.

The impact is extinction– a strike by terrorists culminates in global nuclear war and destruction.
**MORGAN**
Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. "World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race." South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009.

Moral uncertainty means we default to preventing extinction as a side constraint on morality.
**BOSTROM**
Nick Bostrom, 2001 Professor of Philosophy, Oxford University [Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor.

Any risk of util means extinction is bad for the purposes of decision-making.
**BOSTROM 2**

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
__**Equal Opportunity AC**__
The origin of government is based on individuals coming together to centralize power under a sovereign to provide protections to its citizens. Governments are thus obligated to the public good so it derives its authority from fulfilling its obligations.
**WEST**
Robin West. "Rights, Capabilities, and the Good Society." Fordham Law Review Vol. 69 Issue 5.

A minimal set of protections would include access to health care.
**DONNELLY**
Jack Donnelly, Professor of International Relations and Political Theory at the University of Denver Graduate School of International Studies. "A Human Right to Health Care." Health Care Reform: A Human Rights Approach, edited by Audrey R. Chapman, 1994. Georgetown University Press.

We shouldn't conceive of the individual as abstracted units and numbers- the goal is to become a contributing member of society since individuals are shaped by social context and institutions.
**HOLLENBACH**
DAVID HOLLENBACH – The Common Good Revisited. Theological Studies. 50:1 (1989 March).

The best way to adjudicate individual needs is based on relative urgency, so prioritize those without access.
**NAGEL**
Thomas Nagel, Princeton University. "The Justification of Equality." The 1977 Tanner Lecture at Stanford University, published by permission of the Tanner Lecture Trust.

Almost 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance.
**CECERE 09**
Harvard Gazette. "New Study Finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of coverage." David Cecere. Cambridge Health Alliance. Thursday, September 17, 2009.

Universal health care solves. I advocate a single payer system that extends coverage to the current uninsured.
**MCCALLY**
Dr. Michael McCally, Professor in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, Oregon. Single Payer National Health Insurance published by the Willamette University Health Journal

The entire system will be cheaper so there’s no harm to the wealthy. The savings foregoing needed services outweigh the costs.
**DEGRAZIA 08**
David DeGrazia, “Single Payer Meets Managed Competition: The Case for Public Funding and Private Delivery,” The Hastings Center Report, Vol. 38, No. 1 (Jan. - Feb., 2008), pp. 23-33

There's no waiting lists; patients empirically use less medical services with universal health care.
**RAND 06**
RAND Health, RAND HIE Experiment, “A Classic RAND Study Speaks to the Current Health Care Reform Debate” 2006.

The government can subsidize important treatments while placing co-pays on other ones to discourage free-riding, so there's no waiting times or overuse, empirically proven by the French system.
**KLEIN 07**
Ezra Klein, Editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg. His work focuses on domestic and economic policymaking, as well as the political system that's constantly screwing it up]. The Health of Nations: How Europe, Canada, and our own VA do health care better. The Prospect. April 22, 2007.

This type of rationing maximizes efficiency and quality of care.
**SINGER 09**
Peter Singer, Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University. The New York Times. "Why We Must Ration Health Care." July 15th, 2009.

Single pay boosts innovation.
**PNHP 09**
PNHP. Physicians for a National Health Program. "Frequently Asked Questions About National Health Insurance." 2009.

----
**Theory Interpretations**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If debaters disclose at least one aff and case position on the NDCA wiki then they may not be required to disclose anything else.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If a debater posts on the NDCA wiki that all theory interpretations must be disclosed on the NDCA wiki to be run, then that debater may only run theory that they have disclosed.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Meta-theory does not need to be disclosed on the NDCA wiki.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">All burden structures must be necessary and sufficient and allow for link turn and impact turn ground.</span>

Debaters must defend a standard or burden unconditionally unless they concede to the aff/neg standard or burden.

[[media type="custom" key="22202402"]]