[[toc]]

=States= 
Text: The fifty states and relevant territories should ___.

Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal transportation program has...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.</span>


=<span style="line-height: 13px;">Alaska </span>= 
Text: The Alaskan state government should substantially increase its icebreaking operations for waterway creation

Alaska can do the plan without triggering Congressional budget battles

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DeMarban ’12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Should Alaska take the lead in financing icebreakers?” http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/should-alaska-take-lead-financing-new-icebreakers Alex DeMarban | Apr 11, 2012</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gov. Sean Parnell says the state ...wasn't returned Wednesday evening.</span>



=Quadrennial Energy Review= 


Text – The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology should direct the Department of Energy to include a Quadrennial Energy Review as an addendum to the Quadrennial Technology Review. The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology should direct the Department of Energy to include a recommendation to ________ as a part of the Quadrennial Energy Review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">differ</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">from substantive...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> same effect Ronald in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


The counterplan solves the entirely of the aff, and avoids the links to politics.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jones -11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard M. Jones, Government Relations Division, American Institute of Physics, March 24, 2011, FYI: The AIP Bulletin of Science Policy News, http://www.aip.org/fyi/2011/039.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Individuals have until April 15 to file... responses to the questions it poses.”</span>


=Quadrennial Technology Review= 
Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to _.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">differ </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">from ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it
James <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hunnicutt 99,</span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Depending on whether a rule is ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">have</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">given up</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">on the appeals process.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> n156</span>

=Commissions= 
Text – the President of the United States should establish an interagency commission which should publish a biennial transportation review with bipartisan congressional consultation. The interagency commission should recommend that ___ as a part of its first biennial transportation review.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Policy statements"</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">differ</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">from substantive ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> virtually the same effect Ronald in Levin, Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>

Commissions avoid politics – seen as bipartisan.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Straus and Glassman -12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matthew Eric Glassman, Analyst on the Congress, Jacob R. Straus, Analyst on the Congress, Congressional Commissions: Overview, Structure, and Legislative Considerations, February 15, 2012, CRS Reports, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40076.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout American history, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Congress ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their findings and recommendations. </span>
=Sea-Basing (Heg)= 
Text: The United States Federal Government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.

**Sea basing solves hegemony – Allows for rapid forward deployment and global deterrence**
**Michael Perry, 2009, U.S.** navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

**Seabasing supports numerous aspects ...** **Strategies of the United States.**

=Cuban Embargo (Econ)= 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should repeal its trade embargo on the Republic of Cuba.**

**The embargo on Cuba is a cold war relic that is only hurting the economy- KT global trade**
**Johson et. Al 10** (Andy, director of the national security program, Kyle Spector, policy advisor for the National Security Program, Kristina Lilac, works for the national security program, Third Way Publications, September 16, 2010, http://content.thirdway.org/publications/326/Third_Way_Memo_-_End_the_Embargo_of_Cuba.pdf, ADP)
The US has had normal trade ... create 6,000 new jobs in the US.10

=EB Visas (Econ)= 

Text: The United States Federal Government should exempt certain highly skilled workers from employment-based visa limits, reform the per-country quota system for immigrant visas, and recapture unused immigrant visas to ease the burden on oversubscribed categories.

**Expanding employment based visas is the vital internal link to economic growth – no other policy measure comes close**
Tim <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kane</span>, senior fellow at Heritage <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and</span> Robert <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Litan</span>, VP for research at the Kauffman Foundation, 4-30-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2010</span>, “knowledge economy immigration: a priority for u.s. growth policy,” http://www.kauffman.org/uploadedFiles/Knowledge_Economy_Immigration_Policy_4-30-09.pdf
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There are countless policy improvements ...</span> growth of the U.S. labor force.”