[[toc]]
=The wiki of magic...and remember kids, the FBI and DoJ say:= 

Do you have questions? Send an email to [[mailto:pheft4289@gmail.com|pheft4289@gmail.com]] and he will respond awesomly.
=Affirmative= 

=Ice Breakers 1AC= 
[[media type="custom" key="21762912" align="center"]]


==1AC== 


===Contention One is Inherency=== 

**The Coast Guard~’s polar ice-breaker fleet is aging and insufficient – mission fulfillment requires new ships**
**Klimas 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jacqueline, "Coast Guard asks to buy new Arctic icebreaker", 3.24.12, [[http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/-http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/]], ~~[CL~~])</span>

The Defense Department will help bolster the Coast Guard~’s presence in the Arctic, the commander of U.S. Northern Command told the Senate Armed Services Committee.

AND

"It~’s a small amount. I wish it was more, but just the fact to have it down and in their five-year plan shows their commitment to move forward," he said.


**Melting ice increases the need for ice-breakers – more Arctic activity means more risk**
**O~’Rourke 12**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Ronald O~’Rourke June 14, 2012. Specialist in Naval Affairs. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf-http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf]]) </span>

Although polar ice is diminishing due to climate change, observers generally expect that this development will not eliminate the need for U.S. polar icebreakers, and in some respects might increase mission demands for them.
AND
An April 18, 2011, press report states that the Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Robert Papp,




===Contention Two is the North=== 

**The Arctic zone will be the next arena for global military conflict – the US has fallen behind in the currently militarizing ice race**
**Huffington Post 4/16/12,**
"Arctic Climate Change Opening Region To New Military Activity." Eric Talmadge. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change- military-activity_n_1427565.html-http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/04/16/arctic-climate-change- military-activity_n_1427565.html]]

To the world~’s military leaders, the debate over climate change is long over.
AND
The only one in operation belongs to the Coast Guard. The U.S. is currently mulling whether to add more icebreakers.



**Ice breakers are a key to keeping up – failure to modernize the fleet ensures that the US will fall behind**
Tyler **Davis**, YoungLeadersProgram at Heritage Foundation, **11** (December9, 2011TheLone
Icebreaker:U.S. Sovereignty intheArctic," <span style="color: #0000ff;"> [[</span>http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-<span style="color: #0000ff;"> -http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/]][[</span>icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/-http://blog.heritage.org/2011/12/09/the-lone-icebreaker-u-s-sovereignty-in-the-arctic/]]<span style="color: #000000;">, Heritagefoundation)DG</span>

The United States Coast Guard is being left behind in the Arctic.
AND
If the U.S. does not act fast, it will come in last in the race for the Arctic.


**Ice breakers are the biggest internal link to all US activity in the Arctic – the plan is key to ensuring US leadership**
**O~’Rourke**, specialist in naval affairs, **6/ 14**. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ronald O~’Rourke"CoastGuard Polar IcebreakerModernization: Background and Issues forCongress."Congressional Research Servi[[ce. http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf-http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf]]//</span>

//*~~[The study~~] concludes that future capability and capacity gaps will significantly impact four ~~[Coast//
//Guard~~] mission areas in the Arctic: Defense Readiness, Ice Operations, Marine Environmental Protection, and Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security.//
//AND//
//The current demand for this mission requires continuous icebreaker presence in both Polar Regions.//


**//This allows the US to play a critical role in de-escalating Arctic conflict//**
//**NRC et al 07** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(National ResearchCouncil, PolarResearchBoard,Marine Board(MB)Earth and LifeStudies(DELS)TransportationResearch Board,Committeeon theAssessment ofU.S. CoastGuard , "PolarIcebreakers inaChangingWorld:AnAssessment ofU.S. Needs."Online PDF a[[t http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753~~%23org-http:</span>//www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=11753%26amp;orgs]]s )

In the Arctic, economic activity is expected to increase as the southern extent of the Arctic summer ice pack thins, providing opportunity for ice-capable ships to travel through these regions.

AND
Icebreakers will be needed to provide access to ice-covered waters to acquire this necessary data.



**Absent de-escalation, current militarization will ensures Arctic conflicts go nuclear**
**Wallace and Staples, 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(MichaelWallace and StevenStaples.*ProfessorEmeritus atthe</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">University of BritishColumbiaAND </span> Presidentof theRideau InstituteinOttawa"Ridding the Arcticof NuclearWeapons:A TaskLong Overdue,"[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-<span style="color: #0000ff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> -http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]][[</span>nuclear-report-web.pdf-http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]]<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">)DG</span>

The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.
AND
The current geo-political threat level is nebulous and low – for now, according to Rob Huebert of the University of Calgary, "~~[the~~] issue is the uncertainty as Arctic states and non-Arctic states begin to recognize the geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change." 62


**Reject their defense- Russian military actions prove they won~’t cooperate absent US presence**

**Huebert 10** <PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary

Rob, "The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,", published March 2010, accessed 12/3/12, [[http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf>~~]ph-http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment.pdf%3e%5dph]]

It should be clear that the Russians have been according a growing importance to the Arctic¶ region.
AND
This is not known.


===Contention Three is the South=== 

**The aging US fleet of icebreakers threatens the sustainability of Antarctic research – McMurdo and South Station**
**Morello 11**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lauren, "US Polar Research May Slow for Lack of an Icebreaker", [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=us-polar-research-may-slow-lack-icebreaker-http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=us-polar-research-may-slow-lack-icebreaker]], 7.28.11, ~~[CL~~])</span>

Have a spare polar icebreaker lying around?
AND
We will need to plan in order to reserve enough fuel to last until late January 2013, which could be the earliest that we could re-supply fuel, if there is not an icebreaker this season."




**Inability to resupply Arctic research bases collapses the Antarctic Treaty System and causes a scramble for control**
**TNAP 7**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(The National Academies Press, National Advisers in Science, "Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs" 2007, Online ~~[HT~~])</span>

Until recently, the two Polar class icebreakers (sometimes together and sometimes separately depending on ice conditions) were used to break open a channel for resupply.4
AND
Icebreaker operations are critical to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field sites.

**ATS Collapse breaks down the backbone that structures research sciences in the Antarctic**
**Dastidar and Persson 5**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Prabir G. Dastidar, Department of Ocean Development in New Delhi, and Olle Persson, Umea University Department of Sociology, "Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-à-vis Antarctic Treaty System" IAS, Current Science Volume 89 Number 9, 11-10-2005, Online ~~[HT~~])</span>

ANTARCTICA is a continent of science and peace, a common heritage of mankind.
AND
Bibliometric analysis of Antarctic science on a regular basis will help visualize the functioning of the ATS, where science is occupying a central place


**Specifically – icebreaker cooperation is a key catalyst for science diplomacy. Without the ATS, the WHOLE framework for scientific cooperation collapses – US presence in South Pole station is a key modeling point. The impact is earth science cooperation.**
**Erb 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Karl A., Director of the Office of Polar Programs, "International Collaboration in the Antarctic for Global Science", pg. 1-6, ~~[CL~~])</span>

The Antarctic Treaty did not invent international science, but its provisions have fostered international science in powerful ways.
AND
The scientific value of the Antarctic will continue to increase as its role in Earth system science is more fully realized, and it is only through international collaboration that many of these pressing questions will be answered.


**Science diplomacy is key to the success of international non-proliferation**
**Dickson 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(David, Director, SciDev.Net, 7 May 2010, "Nuclear disarmament is top priority for science diplomacy", http://www.scidev.net/en/editorials/nuclear-disarmament-is-top-priority-for-science-diplomacy.html, 7/28/10, atl)</span>

The political climate is ripe for a new push to eliminate nuclear weapons; scientists can boost its chance of success.
AND
Reaching a global agreement on the steps needed to eliminate nuclear weapons from the world would be a good place to start.


**Proliferation results in extinction**
**Cohn 9**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(William, 09 Lecturer law, ethics and logic at the University of New York in Prague, May 19, [[</span>http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article22655.htm-http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article22655.htm]]<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

More nations have acquired these weapons.
AND
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Director and 2005 Nobel Peace Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei calls Khan~’s nuclear distribution network the "Wal-Mart of private-sector proliferation."


===Thus the plan: The United States federal government should invest in the construction of icebreaker ships.=== 

===Contention Four is Solvency=== 

**The best way to solve is building more ice breakers – scheduling, distance, solves research and presence**
**Venzke** Retired Rear Admiral,U.S.CoastGuard **~’9** (Norm, icebreakersailor, severed onfour icebreakers,March[[, http://www.michaelyon-online.com/images/pdf/icebreakers.p-http://www.michaelyon-online.com/images/pdf/icebreakers.pdf]]df, "We
Need MoreIcebreakers%21")

The United States icebreaker fleet is absolutely inadequate.
AND
The insufficiency of U.S. icebreakers is again exemplified by the necessity to charter a Swedish icebreaker to support the 2008-09 McMurdo resupply.


**Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn~’t which non-uniques your turns**
Ariel **Cohen 11**, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, "Russia~’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten" Heritage Foundation, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/-http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online

The Arctic is becoming the "wild west" of the 21st century, and the Russians have been quick to claim a good part of it as their birthright.
AND
America~’s security and economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on U.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.

**Ten new ice-breakers is sufficient to fulfill the Coast Guard mission – plan is key to resolve debate over the mechanism**
**O~’Rourke 6/14**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, Quote from July 2010 Coast Guard High Latitude Study,"Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress," [[http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/-http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/]]</span>

The current demand for this mission requires continuous icebreaker presence in both Polar Regions.
AND
While there is no dispute that the Coast Guard~’s polar icebreaker fleet is in need of recapitalization, the decision to acquire this capability through purchase of new vessels, reconstruction of existing ships, or commercial lease of suitable vessels must be resolved to provide the best value to the taxpayer.




=New Orleans K Aff= 

===Contention One: The Coming Storm=== 

**1: The question is when not if, another hurricane will strike.**
**The Telegraph 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Francis Harris in Washington) "City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high" 01 Sep 2005 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html Herm </span>

For decades, New Orleans had been "dodging the bullet" as one hurricane
AND
city had to fight with the defences it had. They weren~’t enough.

**2: New Orleans still lacks mass transit evacuation plans and the carless will be trapped again.**
**Renne et al., 08** – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, "National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review", October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ

The objective of this study is to research how state departments of transportation (state
AND
can be understood and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).




===Plan=== 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in New Orleans.**


===Contention Two: The Advantage=== 

**1: The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation.**
**Wailoo et al. 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>

A landmark decision most known today for its application beyond transportation, Plessy v.
AND
car ownership ever more expensve and difficult in many inner-city neighborhoods.


**2: No disaster is natural – who lives and who dies is part of a social calculus based on how much a society decides to care for the under privileged.**
**Smith 06** –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, "There~’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster" March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )//ALo//</span>

//It is generally accepted among environmental geographers that there is no such thing as a//
//AND//
//preventable) dimensions of such disasters, covering for quite specific social interests.//


//**3: Knowing a hurricane would strike the Bush administration proceeded to privatize the areas around the Levees in the name of profit which eroded the cities natural protection. This showed that people were sacrificed for profits.**//
//**Smith 06** –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the CUNY Graduate Center where he also directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics (Neil, "There~’s No Such Thing as a Natural Disaster" March 2006, http://www.ladeltacorps.org/uploads/4/3/8/1/4381788/cg-ar-packet.pdf )</span>//ALo

Vulnerability, in turn, is highly differentiated; some people are much more vulnerable
AND
are more than anything dependent on one~’s race, ethnicity and social class.

**4: The impact of disposability is that politics disintegrates, with each individual losing their meaning and autonomy. This creates the inhuman, where entire populations are segregated and destroyed.**
**Giroux, 2010** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, "Memories of Hope in the Age of Disposability", published 9/28/2010, accessed online 7/2, http://archive.truthout.org/memories-hope-age-disposability63631)//BZ//

//Welcome to the new era of disposability in which market-driven values peddle policies//
//AND//
//barbarism and its increasing registers of cruelty, inequality, punishment and authoritarianism.//


//**5: Transportation policy is the root of transportation inequality – this lies at the heart of racial, environmental inequality, and classism.**//
//**Pastor et al. 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.~~] "Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina" http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf</span>//

//How consequential is racial inequality in environmental conditions? A Southern California study estimating lifetime//
//AND//
//with race, income, and other social characteristics that we now turn.//


//**6: Racism creates a permanent condition of war**//
//**Mendieta 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, "~’To make live and to let die~’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting" http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf</span>//

//This is where racism intervenes, not from without, exogenously, but from within//
//AND//
//of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.//

//**7: <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">That’s an apriori issue - it makes all forms of violence inevitable and must be rejected in every instance</span>**//
//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Memmi 2000</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>//


//The struggle against racism will be long,//
//AND//
//but the stakes are irresistible.//


//**8: Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**//
//**Wolshon, 06** – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, "The Aftermath of Katrina", http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx)//BZ

Although little can be done to alter the weather, we can prepare for the
AND
years based on valuable lessons learned from prior storms in Louisiana and elsewhere.


===Contention Three: Framing=== 

**1: Impacts should be viewed through the lens of environmental and racial justice– this is necessary to understand and rebuild after Katrina.**
**Sze 06**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julie Sze is an assistant professor in American Studies at the University of California, Davis. Her forthcoming book on the culture, politics and history of environmental justice activism in New York City is under contract with MIT Press. It looks at the intersection of planning and health, especially through the prism of asthma, and at changes in garbage and energy systems as a result of privatization, globalization and deregulation. Toxic Soup Redux: Why Environmental Racism and Environmental Justice Matter after Katrina By Julie Sze Published on: Jun 11, 2006 </span>

Thus, the Gulf Coast region was, in many ways, "Ground Zero
AND
long engaged with the toxic, environmental and disaster politics in the region.

**2: The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action – the recognition of our obligations in the public sphere spills over.**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for K judges: We must use the debate space to promote a pedagogical stance against the federal government policies regarding transportation. The ballot is a pedagogical advocacy, you are the Paulo Freire of the debate community and we can use education as a starting point to orient movements against the state.</span>**
**Giroux, 2006** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, "Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//

//Biopolitics is not just about the reduction of selected elements of the population to the//
//AND//
//lifeblood of democracy, becomes cold and indifferent in the face of death.//


//**3: A federal response is the only ethical route. We need to recognize our collective responsibility to vulnerable populations.**//
//**Giroux, 2006** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, "Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability", accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ

In a May 25, 2001 interview, Grover Norquist, head of the right
AND
necessary for an adequate emergency response plan in the event of a flood.


**4: Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES Katrina–like disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.**
**Morse 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, "Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina" 2008, </span>http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> )//ALo</span>

The American transportation model unfairly tends to burden minorities and the poor. In general
AND
including the right to return and to adequate interim care and treatment. 194


**5: Utilitarian calculations work with the framework of a normality bias serving to legitimize the system and prevent change. This leads to a positive feedback loop turning util - Only the aff~’s endorsement can solve.**
**OR: Normality bias causes us to underestimate the impact of discriminatory outcomes – makes equal utilitarian calculus impossible.**
Lu-in **Wang**, Professor of Law @ University of Pittsburgh School of Law, 20**06** "Discrimination by Default: How Racism Becomes Routine" Pg 90-97
The Normalcy and Normalization of Discrimination Because counterfactual thinking influences our reactions to and explanations
AND
turn serves to reinforce the designation of those others as suitable victims.48


**6: And, great power war is obsolete – cooperation is more likely than competition.**
**Deudney and Ikenberry 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND **Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University ~~[Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, "The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail," Foreign Affairs~~]</span>

This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing
AND
international system is far more primed for peace than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.











=Negative= 
A whole host of negative arguments. Later in life I may add specific but if you are in dire need you can email [[mailto:pheft4289@gmail.com|pheft4289@gmail.com]].
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]