[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==Cap== 
===1NC=== 
**The affirmative’s appeals to national security are really appeals to defend US wealth—threats are constructed by the ruling class to justify conservative action—this locks the proletariat in poverty and prevents emancipation, also is a reason they’re liars**
Mark __Neocleous, 08__, “Critique of Security”, … in the Department of Government
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are often and rightly … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">twentieth century accounts of emergency. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Structural violence outweighs nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Abu-Jamal 98 (Mumia, award-winning … )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We live, equally immersed, … throughout the world.</span>

**outweighs Your impact calculus that compares wars to structural violence begins from a position of privilege**
**Liotta 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. P. H. Liotta is the Jerome E. Levy Chair of Economic Geography and National Security at the U. S. Naval War College.</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Environmental Change and Human Security: Recognizing and Acting on Hazard Impacts Springer”, Aug 7, 2008 (Google eBook)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In contrast to the idea … isolation of bare life (Agamben, 1998). </span>


**In addition, space represents an extension of the search for surplus that dominates capitalism**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Parker, 9. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin (University of Leicester School of Management), The Sociological Review Volume 57</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This chapter explores a paradox.1 </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">I want … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, of value, were fading away.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">‘Where the fulfilment of the calling cannot be directly related to the highest spiritual and cultural values, or when, on the other hand, it need not be felt simply as economic compulsion, the individual generally abandons the attempt to justify it at all. In the field of its highest development, in the United States, the pursuit of wealth, stripped of its religious and ethical meaning, tends to become associated with purely mundane passions, which often actually give it the character of sport.’ (Weber, 1930: 182)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">So the means become the … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">that enterprise can be launched</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Capitalism is based around oil consumption—causes nuclear resource wars and global warming—and peak oil makes collapse inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Forster 8 </span>(John Bellamy, Professor at … )

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The tightening oil situation has prompted …geared to growing inequality.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Alternative Text: Reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">An endorsement of politics within a new collective organization is practicable – any other politics MUST BE REJECTED as slavery </span>
**Badiou ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alain, Prof. @ European Graduate School, Former chair of Philosophy @ École Normale Supérieure, The Meaning of Sarkozy, pgs. 97-103)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I would like to situate … the history of this hypothesis.</span>


===2NC=== 
Listen up because this is __…__ them into cycles of oppression
Shah 10 **(Anup, correspondent for Global Issues, “Today, over 22,000 children died around the world”, September 20, [[http://www.globalissues.org/article/715/today-over-22000-children-died-around-the-world]])**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Over 22,000 children die every day around the world. … much less sustain, prime-time, headline coverage.</span>


**These forms of objective violence are the root cause of the subjective violence the aff identifies – subliminal desires**
**Howie 11**(Luke, Department of Behavioral Studies, Monash University, member of the Global Terrorism Research Centre, International Journal of Zizek Studies Volume 5 Number 2, “They Were Created by Man … and They Have a Plan: Subjective and Objective Violence in Battlestar Galactica and the War on Terror” pg. 2-4)

Žižek’s descriptions of the distinction … play an important role in preventing terrorism.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We have an a priori ethical obligation to reject anonymization of violence. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daly 4</span> (Glyn, Senior lecturer in … )

For Zizek <span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is imperative that … in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

**And, this is capitalism’s attempt to incorporate us**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Meszaros 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Prof. Emeritus @ Univ. Sussex) 1995 [Istavan, Beyond Capital: Towards a Theory of Transition, p. 143]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Maintaining the stability of a system</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">dominant party are at stake</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
**And, no, you don’t solve poverty – cap teaches us to hate our own social position and reorganizes society around absence**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Magdoff and Yates 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred and … ://monthlyreview.org/091109magdoff-yates.php)// </span>

//<span class="Heading3Char1">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is impossible for</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ever-… __, nor is it ecologically sustainable.__</span>//

//**This is crying wolf**//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kurasawa 4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University) Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Up to this point, I have … precautionary principle and global justice.</span>//

//**Won’t cause extinction**//
//**Shapiro et al 2009 --**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair (Irwin, “Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies.” National Academies of Sciences, report, http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/images/stories/Prepublication_NEOInterimReport_for_0812.pdf) CMR</span>//

//__The uncertainties in the damaging … **humans as a species would endure**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Let’s be clear—this is not a K of space—it’s a K of their assumption that drive them to space—and rejecting those assumptions solves space better.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paleck 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Former Iowa Democratic nominee … for the House of Representatives</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mike, “Capitalism Versus Science”,8/12/09, http://www.marxist.com/capitalism-versus-science.htm)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ultimate proof of capitalism’s hindrance of science and …. The only thing that stands in our way is capitalism. </span>//

//**You’re a bandaid solution – yes we’ve screwed up****– but the mentality of the “do-over” papers over the problem and guarantees extinction on the planet you attempt to colonize. This is proven by their [x] evidence which says [y].**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lin, 6. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patrick (Assistant Professor at Ca-Poly & affiliate scholar at Stanford Law School's Center for Internet and Society</span>//jh), Viewpoint: Look Before Taking Another Leap For Mankind – Ethical and Social Considerations in Rebuilding Society in Space, Digital Commons [[http://digitalcommons.calpoly.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1008&context=phil_fac]] **don’t endorse gendered language**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If not for adventure or … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">we address those root issues</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Overview leads to war**
**KATO 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Masahide, dept of political science, U of Hawaii, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze,” Alternatives, Summer)</span>
__The fiction of the globe …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as the case in point.</span>

**Collapse solves extinction – now key**
**Barry 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– President and Founder of Ecological Internet, Ph.D. in Land Resources from U-Wisconsin-Madison</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Glen, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)</span>

<span class="Underline">Humanity and the Earth are … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more fragile than it looks. </span>

==Tao== 
===1NC=== 
**First uniqueness**

**The Tao guides the way of life – SQ is perfect unless humans tamper with it**
**Kirkland 98** – phd east Asian languages, associate prof of religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]) CMR **We don’t endorse gendered language**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we </span>__leave aside__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such … </span>__tendencies of Heaven-and-Earth.__**


the link –

The best traveler has no fixed plans – your attempt to fix a strategy for the future is anti-Taoism
Slabbert 2001 **(Jos, “Tao Te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]) CMR**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Agendas </span>//__A good traveler has no …__// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">own far more adventurous journeys.</span>**

The Taoist does not explore space but celebrates what is – instead of schematizing space, we should simply exist
Tao for Life 10 **(Online Journal, 12/14, “Thinking Outside The Box ,” http://taoforlife.wordpress.com/2010/12/14/thinking-outside-the-box/) CMR**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>__seventh passage____of____… simply is and simply does.__**

And, the alternative:
The aff acts out of a fear of extinction, ignoring the fact that action disrupts the natural flow of the Dao. The alternative is an embrace of Taoist inaction – that makes true disaster impossible
Kirkland 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – phd east Asian languages, associate prof of religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]) CMR </span>**We don’t endorse gendered language

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This example came to my … correctly said, //especially not// — ourselves.</span>

**Only when one accepts that things will not go your way all the time will the Way be revealed**
Tao for Life 10 (Online Journal, 2/15, “Everything and Nothing…,” http://taoforlife.wordpress.com/2010/02/15/everything-and-nothing/) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have learned in my … </span>__. In seeking nothing, I found everything.__

**And, the impact is spiritual suffering – outweighs extinction**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Slabbert</span>, Taoist teacher and philosopher, 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">01</span> (Jos, “Tao Te Ching: How to Deal With Suffering,” [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]) //AJO

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Most forms of our … </span>forms of suffering will cease.

===1NR=== 
**Mutually Exclusive – Your Assumptions are at Odds with Any Taoist Reading of the World**
**Kirkland 98** – Phd East Asian Languages, Associate Prof of Religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" in a NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES from the NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, and TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf|Http://Kirkland.Myweb.Uga.Edu/Rk/Pdf/Pubs/ECO.Pdf]]) CMR **We Don’t Endorse Gendered Language**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but Doesn't Such a Position Leave … </span>**__the Motivation for Such Action__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

There is No Material Difference Between Life and Death. Such is the Nature of Things.
Kirkland 98 **– Phd East Asian Languages, Associate Prof of Religion, UGA (“"RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" in a NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES from the NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, and TAO-TE CHING.” [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf|Http://Kirkland.Myweb.Uga.Edu/Rk/Pdf/Pubs/ECO.Pdf]]) CMR** We Don’t Endorse Gendered Language

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When </span>__Chuang-Tzu's Wife Died, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">into a Foolish Course of Action.</span>

Alt Solves – Embracing the Tao Allows Us to Transcend Death
**Entote 02** Herbert Entote (Taoist Scholar), “Transcending the Cycle of Birth and Death,” Taoism.Net. April 1, 2002. [[http://taoism.net/articles/transcnd.htm|Http://Taoism.Net/Articles/Transcnd.Htm]] //AJO
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as Humans, We Find Birth … Transcend Birth and Cease Death.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Fear of Death Means That There’s No Point to Living in the First Place </span>**
Fred-Olav **Sorensen, ND** (Fredosor Blog, [[http://www.fredosor.com/purposes-taos-four-desires.html|Http://Www.Fredosor.Com/Purposes-Taos-Four-Desires.Html]]) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span>__Desire for Long Life__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Calls “Les Illusions Sur L’avenir”).</span>
===2NR=== 
**Humans are Just Particles – Biologists Concur**
**Barnett 1986** – Professor of Biological Sciences at California State University, (Raymond, “ TAOISM and BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.” [Zygon, Vol. 21, No. 3 (September 1986).] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ed.op.org/twiki/pub/StAlbertUSA/Taoism/Barnett_Taoism_and_Bio_Science_atla0000968015.pdf|Http://Ed.Op.Org/Twiki/Pub/Stalbertusa/Taoism/Barnett_Taoism_and_Bio_Science_Atla0000968015.Pdf]]</span>) CMR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Do </span>__Taoism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Biological … Other Ecological And Social Settings.</span>
==T - Human== 
===1NC=== 
**Exploration requires staffed missions**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**So does space development**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)</span>

__Eric Westling is a____science writer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>**__manned__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">commercial</span> **__projects in space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Case== 
===1NC=== 
**Space contracting can’t save the industrial base**
**Sterner, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The industry</span> also faces …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of corporate knowledge and expertise.</span>

**Nuclear deterrence fails**
**Brown & Arnold 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associates at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (Andrew Brown and Lorna Arnold, Sep. 2010. [</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">"The Quirks of Nuclear Deterrence." </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">International Relations</span>//</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> 24, no. 3, p. 293-312</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abstract From 1945 to 1949 the US...</span>security mechanism than many assume.

**And there is a dearth of … . We don’t endorse abelist language**
<span class="Underline">**Goldstein and Pinker 12/18/11**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua S., Professor Emeritus at University of Maryland and Research Scholar, Dept. of Political Science, University of Massachusetts, and Steven, Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University, “ War Really Is Going Out of Style”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/opinion/sunday/war-really-is-going-out-of-style.html]], agf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The theorythat </span>war<span class="Underline"> is </span>… <span class="Underline">a </span>war at<span class="Underline"> an </span>acceptablecost<span class="Underline">. </span>

More data leads to information overload.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Frini et al 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anne-Claire … for Improved Collective Intelligence Production”)</span>

__With__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a variety of Intelligence, Surveillance, … source information management and integration. </span>


**China’s not a threat**
**Watts 2011 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry D., “The ImplIcaTIons of chIna’s mIlITary and cIvIl space programs.” May, Testimony presented before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission on May 11, 2011. http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/2011.05.11-China-Military-and-Civil-Space-Programs.pdf) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second point to be … </span>__conflict over Taiwan in 2012 or 2020.__



**Deterrence by denial fails**
**Morgan, 10** – Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])
__Efforts to deter__ __would-be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">escort satellites with such capabili­ties. </span>




**Tellis is wrong – current US restraint means preemption will never happen unless a war starts first**
**Manzo, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - CDI Research Assistant (Vince, “U.S. Policy Brief: The Need for a Strategic Dialogue with China,” 8/28, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/StrategicDialoguePolicy.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Several other analysts have offered … the implementation of the NPR.29 </span>


**SQ solves space weather – lagrangian points ssa data**
**Weeden et al 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Secure World Foundation (Bruce, “ GLOBAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS SENSORS.” [[http://209.200.88.159/TechnicalPapers/2010/Integrating_Diverse_Data/Weeden.pdf]]) CMR </span>

__Successful monitoring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and prediction </span>__of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__nations to send additional spacecraft.__







=Round 2= 
==Plan== 
**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects, including the placement of infrared sensors in a Venus-like orbit.**
==Asteroids== 
**Advantage 1 is asteroids**

**Status quo fails –**
**A) Current asteroid tracking has ignored many Near Earth Objects and could be reliant on false data. Asteroids still pose a large risk.**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shapiro et al 10 </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Irwin, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Chair Faith Vilas, Mmt Observatory at Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, Vice Chair Michael A’hearn, University of Maryland, College Park, Vice Chair Andrew F. Cheng, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory Frank Culbertson, Jr., Orbital Sciences Corporation David C. Jewitt, University of California, Los Angeles Stephen Mackwell, Lunar and Planetary Institute H. Jay Melosh, Purdue University Joseph H. Rothenberg, Universal Space Network, 2010, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>

__Congress has established for NASA … : Humanity must be constantly vigilant.__

**B) NEOWISE makes your DAs non-unique, but is in hibernation now.**
**Associated Press 9/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NASA researchers also downgraded … </span>__and is currently in hibernation.__

**C) NEOShield means deflection tech will exist, but it doesn’t go to space – not uniques sagan da**
**Young 1/25** (Elizabeth, “What is NEOShield and what will it do” [[http://www.helium.com/items/2284212-what-is-neoshield-and-what-will-it-do]] MGE)
The National Aeronautic …impact threat arises.

**Extinction from annihilation**
**BBC News 1/23** (1/23/11, “EcoAlert: NEO Shield --Early Warning of the Potential Threat to Earth from a Comet or Monster Asteroid” [[http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2012/01/ecoalert-neo-shield-early-warning-of-the-potential-threat-to-earth-from-a-monster-comet-or-asteroid.html]] MGE)
“The consequences for human … orbits that might, sooner or later, result in a catastrophic K/T or Permian-type mass extinction.

**And from environmental problems**
**Grego 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Director of Lunar Section Director of Britain's Society for Popular Astronomy (then called the Junior Astronomical Society), editor of both the SPA News Circulars and Popular Astronomy, 1998, Blanford, “Collision Earth!” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As they are so large … mass extinctions of animal life. </span>

**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives and comes before any other impact**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … benefit of such an action.[13] </span>

**A 1 percent solvency deficit to any counterplan outweighs**
**Barbee 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, 4/1/9, Air Power, “Planetary Defense Near-Earth Object Deflection Strategies” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]] MGE)</span>
It is generally accepted … the decision-making process for defense against NEOs.


==Solvency== 

**Solvency**

**Venus-like orbit solves, ground based survey doesn’t, deflection tech exists and is an effect of the plan, and your turns case args don’t apply**
<span class="Underline">**Arentz et al 10 – Aerospace** **& Technologies Corp****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Harold Reitsema, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. , Jeffrey Van Cleve, NASA Ames Research Center SETI Institute and Roger Linfield, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. Space, 2010, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum, American Institute of Physics, “NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit,” [[http://www.astrosociology.org/Library/PDF/SPESIF2010_Arentz-etal_NEO-Survey.pdf]] MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This conference is apparently the … a good system model to grasp.</span>


**NASA key to do the plan**
**A) Deflection, crisis mitigation, and international organization**
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, 10/22/10, MSNBC “White House adviser voices asteroid worries” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/ MGE) </span>
__National emergency plans for natural … is considered low__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Holdren said.</span>

**B)**
<span class="UnderlineBold">)</span> **Status quo Surveys**
<span class="UnderlineBold">National … </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">objects than ground-based telescopes</span>**__.__**

**Our impact framework doesn’t stop policymaking**
**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These considerations suggest that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tempting, that implication is implausible.</span>

**Intervening actors don’t solve**
**Schweickart and Garretson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L., and Peter, Winter 2008, Ad Astra, NSS, “The Threat of Impact” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf MGE) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is now past the … the nerve to take it on? </span>

==Cloud Computing== 
**Advantage 2 is cloud computing**

**Transition to cloud computing failing now**
**Violino 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bob, freelance writer who covers a variety of technology and business topics, 10/12/11, “Got Cloud? Maybe Not” Smart Enterprise Exchange, [[http://smartenterpriseexchange.com/groups/cloud/blog/2011/10/12/got-cloud-maybe-not]] MGE)</span>
__Despite the buzz____about__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> private </span>__… deployment and self-service access__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Asteroid will be catalogued in the cloud, spills over to other forms of planetary defense and increases the market for cloud computing</span>**
**Johnston et al 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Johnston, Kenji Takeda, Hugh Lewis, Simon Cox and Graham Swinerd</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Microsoft Institute for High Performance Computing, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK, “Cloud Computing for Planetary Defense” [[http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/71883/1/John_09.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__Cloud computing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provides the ability … </span>__planetary defencs capability for all.__

**Government investment key to private sector development**
**Robb 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Drew, “Government Bodies Embrace Cloud Computing” 9/30/10, Server Watch, [[http://www.serverwatch.com/trends/article.php/3906216/Government-Bodies-Embrace-Cloud-Computing.htm]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ed Bugnion, CTO for the … , Anjum looked for a better solution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That solves immortality</span>**
**Cloud computing key to technological advances.**
**Thomas 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lana, M.S. and writer for Suite101.com, Suite101.com, “On Demand Hosting and Computing Solutions: Cloud Computing vs Grid or Both, Managed Dedicated Hosting Choices, [[http://website-content-management.suite101.com/article.cfm/on_demand_hosting_and_computing_solutions%20/|http://website-content-management.suite101.com/article.cfm/on_demand_hosting_and_computing_solutions //]] we do not endorse gendered language) cp</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cloud Computing</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, as a utility, has … the human expense to operate it.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Business men need not be concerned about over-provisioning for a service whose popularity does not meet their predictions, thus wasting costly resources, or under-provisioning for one that becomes wildly popular, thus missing potential customers and revenue.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Outsourcing </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Saves</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Money</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, companies … in the history of IT. (Berkeley, 2009)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cloud Computing is explained in more depth in articles like this on and some specialists in the field offer insights and details such as David Chappell is Principal of Chappell & Associates San Francisco, California, who helps software professionals around the world understand, use, and make better [[http://www.davidchappell.com/CloudPlatforms--Chappell.pdf|decisions about new technology]].</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Chappell states, "</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As integration services … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of course </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">expedience is required.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Technological development is key to immortality within the next twenty years.</span>**
<span class="UnderliningChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kurzweil</span>**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> author, inventor, and winner … methods outlined in Fantastic Voyage.</span>
**Second uploading**

**Cloud computing means we can upload ourselves into the cloud**
**Anthony 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sebastian, 10/21/11, “What would it feel like to live in the cloud?” [[http://www.extremetech.com/extreme/100533-i-want-to-live-in-the-cloud]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The past few years have … that your digital self can’t do. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Immortality will encourage long-term human responsibility and progressThe alternative is a society that doesn’t care about the future—that damns the species.</span>**
<span class="UnderliningChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lazarevich</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Nanotechnology expert, science fiction … will </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">happen after they die.</span>__

**Immortality solves all impacts**
**Bostrom 3**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (PhD from the London School of Economics (Nick, 2003, “Transhumanism FAQ”, [[http://www.paulbroman.com/myspace/Transhumanism_FAQ.txt]] MGE) </span>
A distinction is sometimes made … resources could very quickly become scarce unless reproduction is regulated.

==No DAs== 
**Contention 4 is no disads**

**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
**Martin 82**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Australian National University, 1982, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300, “Critique of Nuclear Extinction” [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82jpr.html]] MGE)</span>
__The available evidence suggests that a …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this possibility does not exist.</span>

**No nuclear winter fallout**
**Nyquist 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, 5/20/99, Worldnetdaily.com, MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these … </span>__few (if any) fallout casualties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Not enough weapons**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ball 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]] MGE)</span>
The<span class="Underline">leading </span>populariserof<span class="Underline"> the ‘</span>… <span class="Underline">them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties). </span>

**And there is a dearth of … . We don’t endorse abelist language**
<span class="Underline">**Goldstein and Pinker 12/18/11**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua S., Professor Emeritus at University of Maryland and Research Scholar, Dept. of Political Science, University of Massachusetts, and Steven, Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at Harvard University, “ War Really Is Going Out of Style”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/opinion/sunday/war-really-is-going-out-of-style.html]], agf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The theorythat </span>war<span class="Underline"> is </span>… <span class="Underline">a </span>war at<span class="Underline"> an </span>acceptablecost<span class="Underline">. </span>


**5 events make it clear that there is a statistical certainty for an asteroid to impact Earth**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Over the past several decades, … the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">y might pose to humanity. </span>


**Structural barriers to international conflict**
**Duedney and Ikenberry 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and G. John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, January 2009, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">of international integration and cooperation.</span>











=Round 3= 
Aff: winston churchill death aff

1NC objectivity k (materialism)
framework
Tao K

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]