September-October
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
Rehabilitate the System AC:
Part 1: Framework
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Resolution doesn't specify which form of rehabilitation, or to whom the rehabilitation applies, so that's aff choice</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; line-height: 1.5;">To reduce structural violence, we must engage in a conversation about it</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Winter and Leighton</span>
<span style="color: #bfbfbf; font-size: 8pt;">Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>
Finally to recognize...to reduce it

<span style="color: #ff00ff; font-size: 16px;">Advocacy statement: rehabilitate the system in order to reduce structural violence through the use of speech acts</span>

**Critical pedagogy key to discourse**
**Giroux**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Henry Giroux, Youth In A Suspect Society: Democracy or Disposability, Palgrave MacMillan, 2009, p.128]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Intellectual responsibility involves...the larger society.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">**Education and discourse key to reform in the criminal justice system**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**Dubber**, </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Dubber, Markus Dirk. “Reforming American Penal Law” //The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology Vol. 90, No. 1 1999. Pg 49-108.]//</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The reform of...American penal law.</span>

Part 2: Standard
**The resolution calls us to evaluate the best orientation for the criminal justice system. This imposes the social dynamic of relationality, where the moral assessment is no longer an individual question for the subjective “I” or the objective “you” but rather requires an cooperative ethic that is constructed across this relationship**
**Butler**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Butler, Judith. Professor of Rhetoric at Berkley. Precarious Life – The Powers of Mourning and Violence. Pg 22-23]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When we lose...our very formation</span>

**Recognizing the grievability of the Other is a prerequisite for value to life and grounds our ability to be ethical when we enter the community of relationality.**
**Butler 2**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Butler, Judith. Professor of Rhetoric at Berkley. Precarious Life – The Powers of Mourning and Violence. Pg 24-ish]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over and against...from the start</span>

I read a narrative, then talk about how women in the prison system face issues of structural violence

**There is an infinite obligation to the Other**
**Butler 3**
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Butler, Judith. Professor of Rhetoric at Berkley. Giving an Account of Oneself. Pg 91-92]</span>
If it were...toward the persecutor
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==