[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

1AC
==Inherency== 
# 1. Inadequate funding system has left inland waterways in disrepair --- it’s only matter a of time before a major failure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Boselovic, 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>3/18/2012, Len, “Locked and Dammed: The region's 23 locks and dams are on the brink of failure,” http://www.post-gazette.com/stories/news/environment/locked-and-dammed-the-regions-23-locks-and-dams-are-on-the-brink-of-failure-517289/?print=1, )

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">While Pittsburgh has some of ……………..Great nations invest in themselves,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> he said.</span>
# 2. Inland waterway infrastructure collapse is coming and will be costly
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 12</span>__</span>(Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 03/25/12. “Water Torture Congress Needs To Act on Decaying Locks and Dams”. ProQuest)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"This is a ticking time bomb. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">begins, "We told you so."</span>



==Plan Text!== 
PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase capital investment in improving and expanding inland waterway infrastructure in the United States.


==Econ Adv== 
# 1. Failure of inland waterway systems is coming now and will collapse the economy – a substantial new investment is key
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">TIC 11</span>__**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> [United States House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, “HEARING FOCUSES ON ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF AGING U.S. INLAND WATERWAYS SYSTEM”, House of Representatives, September 21, 2011, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1398</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, T-Fizzle]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Transportation savings are …………..time and taxpayer dollars</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

# 2. The plan relieves massive congestion and restores effective freight transportation
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ng 09</span>__** <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt;">[Jacob, Undergraduate student at the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, UMich. Supervised by A.N. Perakis, Sname Fellow, MICHIGAN PHOENIX MEMORIAL ENERGY INSTITUE FELLOW, DEPARTMENT OF NAVAL ARCHITECTURE AND MARINE ENGINEERING, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, “The Environmental & Economic Benefits of Short Sea Shipping by ‘Container-On-Barge’”, UMICH, May 2, 2009, http://towmast ers.files.wordpress.com/2011/03/the_environmental__economic_benefits_of _sss_by_cob_2009.pdf, T-Haas]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">effects of road ……………hazard in the long run.</span>
# 3. Freight transportation is vital to the economy
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ICF 02</span>__**<span style="color: #222222;"> [ICF Consulting and HLB Decision-Economics, in a report to the FHWA, “Economic Effects of Transportation: </span>

<span style="color: #222222;">The Freight Story”, January 2002, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/freight/documents/improve_econ.pdf</span><span style="color: #222222;">, T-Haas]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As discussed in earlier sections …………………..the planning gap is essential. </span>
# 4. Lack of waterway infrastructure is key to overall freight – capacity limitations are strangling the economy
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jackson and Troxell 07</span>__**<span style="color: #222222;"> [Donald & John, Colonel for the US Army & Professor at the US Army War College, “LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM”, US Army War College, March 30, 2007, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583</span><span style="color: #222222;"> T-Haas]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">As our road and rail ………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">shippers and potential customers. </span>
# 5. Independently, the plan is key to boost import-export competitiveness
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Gibbs 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>Representative from Ohio, from a hearing in front of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. (Bob, “How Reliability of the Inland Waterway System Impacts Economic Competitiveness”, House of Representatives, April 18, 2012, __http://transportation.house.gov/News/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1609__, Maddi)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Washington, DC – The Water ………………..</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">in investing in ours</span>…
# 6. Export competitiveness is vital to sustainable economic growth.
**__Istrate 10__** <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[Emilia, senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26% 20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf, T-Haas]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Exports Could Contribute ……………………..from trading partners</span>.
# 7. A substantial federal investment is the __vital__ internal link to a strong US economy<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_1|[TH1]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Zimmer 11</span>__**<span style="color: #222222;"> [Nancy, Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001), She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States, “Progress On America’s Marine Highway”, August 10, 2011,</span><span style="color: #1155cc;">http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=progress-on-americas-marine-highway</span><span style="color: #222222;"> T-Haas]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">For the United States……………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">is disheartening at best. </span>
# 8. US key to the global economy
Caploe 09 <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">(David Caploe is CEO of the Singapore-incorporated American Centre for Applied Liberal Arts and Humanities in Asia., “Focus still on America to lead global recovery”, April 7, The Strait Times, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">IN THE aftermath of the G-20 summit, ………………………….American and global economies.</span>
# 9. Collapse leads to war
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Green and Schrage 09</span>__** <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">[Michael J Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, Asia Times, 2009 http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html, T-Haas]</span>
Facing the worst<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="klink">**__<span style="color: green;">economic</span>__**</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>……………..<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> maintain stability abroad.</span>
# 10. Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span>__</span> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Less intuitive is how </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">periods of economic decline ………….an increase in the use offorce</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.. </span>


==Energy Adv== 

# 1. Inland waterways are the most efficient means of coal transport, but deteriorating system puts that in jeopardy. 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Buchsbaum 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Lee, associate editor for Coal Age magazine</span>**,** 2/23/12 “LOCKED Out: Aging Locks and Dams Jeopardize Inland Waterways”[[http://www.coalage.com/index.php/features/1766-locked-out-aging-locks-and-dams-jeopardize-inland-waterways.html|**http://www.coalage.com/index.php/features/1766-locked-out-aging-locks-and-dams-jeopardize-inland-waterways.html**]]**]**
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">According to ………….</span>customers later this year.
# 2. Inland waterway transport is key to coal transportation.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Moran 06</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [John, National Research Council, "5 Transport of Coal and Coal Products." Coal: Research and Development to Support National Energy Policy. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2006 http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11977&page=85]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Transportation on </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the inland ………….o</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ptimum for the aging system.</span>
# 3. Lock Gate Failures will steadily and surely occur soon, making coal undesirable.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Buchsbaum 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Lee, associate editor for Coal Age magazine citing Keith Darling, president of AEP’s River Operations</span>, 2/23/12 “LOCKED Out: Aging Locks and Dams Jeopardize Inland Waterways” [[http://www.coalage.com/index.php/features/1766-locked-out-aging-locks-and-dams-jeopardize-inland-waterways.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Over the next 20 years …………………compared to natural gas.</span>
# 4. High coal prices from transportation costs promote switch away from coal to natural gas
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Santa Maria and Noh 12</span>__</span>, [Samantha and Chang, writers for Platts, an energy economics news and analysis provider, May 11 http://www.platts.com/newsfeature/2012/uspowergen/index]
The trends that make region …………..<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Platt’s analysis indicated.</span>
===Scenario 1: Hegemony=== 
# 1. Loss of coal collapses the steel industry
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Steinmiller 2000</span>__,** [Heather, of the Villanova Environmental Law Journal, 2K, “STEEL INDUSTRY, WATCH OUT! THE KYOTO PROTOCOL IS LURKING,” Villanova Environmental Law Journal, 11 Vill. Envtl. L.J. 161]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The production ……………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This result is inherently unfair. </span>
# 2. Steel key to hegemony
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Buyer 07</span>__,** [Steve, Member of the House of Representatives, 7-31-7, Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908)]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">A robust steel industry ………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">national security lies in your hands. </span>
# 3. Hegemony stops great power wars and creates global stability
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Kagan 12</span>__</span> [Robert, Senior Fellow at Brookings, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">3-14</span>-’12, “America has made the world freer, safer and wealthier” CNN, http://us.cnn.com/2012/03/14/opinion/kagan-world-america-made/index.html?hpt=hp_c1]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">… It assumed global leadership ………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">right before the American order came into being.</span>
===Scenario 2: Methane leaks=== 
# 1. Switch to natural gas hurts environment and causes water contamination via methane leaks
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz 10</span> [Ariel, Senior Editor of Co. Exist and assistant editor of FastBusiness magazine, online site focusing on resource management and use, Schwartz has contributed to SF Weekly, Popular Science, Inhabitat, Greenbiz, NBC Bay Area, GOOD Magazine. 9/2/10, “The Downside of Clean Natural Gas: Contaminated Water” [[http://www.fastcompany.com/1686473/the-downside-of-natural-gas-contaminated-water]]]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Test results from …………….dangerous, to boot.</span>
# 2. Extinction
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Ryskin 03</span>__</span> [Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In spite of the low …………….nuclearwinter scenario</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Turco et al., 1991).</span>



==Soybean Adv== 

# 1. 89% of soybeans travel through inland waterways—lock closure would cause spikes in price 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">USB 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Crumbling Inland Waterway System Puts Farmers, Consumers at Risk, Jan 24, 2012 Soybean checkoff study finds that United States could lose global competitiveness, http://www.unitedsoybean.org/media-center/releases/crumbling-inland-waterway-system-puts-farmers-consumers-at-risk/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Just on the Ohio River alone, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the …………………..</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the soybean checkoff.</span>


===Scenario 1: China=== 

# 1. The harsh summer has put Soybean supplies and prices on the brink
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Des Moines Register</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> __12__</span>[Supply fears send soybean prices soaring Sales in May were the second-largest on record, spiking worries about tight stocks. Jun 29, 2012 , http://www.desmoinesregister.com/article/20120630/BUSINESS01/306300031/0/news/?odyssey=nav%7Chead]
“<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Soybeans are going …………………..this fall will be tight.”</span>
# 2. US soybeans are key-to Chinese food security 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Bloomberg, 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan Bjerga and Whitney McFerron - Feb 17, 2012, U.S. Exporters Make Record Single-Day Soybean Sale to China</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2012-02-17/china-soybean-import-tops-one-day-record-as-ties-with-u-s-growers-expand.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Soybean exporters in ……………..</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">make livestock feed.</span>
# 3. China is critical to world food security-lack of Chinese food security would lead to worldwide hunger and starvation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anthea </span><span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Webb</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, [Director of the World Food Program in China, China Daily, “WHY CHINA IS CRUCIAL TO WORLD FOOD SECURITY”May 15, 200</span><span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Lexis] </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For us, it is very hard to ……………..still struggling with poverty and hunger. </span>
===Scenario 2: Brazil=== 
# 1. Brazilian soy crop down in SQ 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Reuters 12</span>__</span> (UPDATE 2-Brazil gov't cuts soy estimate, raises corn view, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/05/grains-brazil-idUSL1E8H529F20120605, P. online)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Brazil's government trimmed………….the year before</span>
# 2. ***Decreased Soy from the US would also increase Brazilian soy production
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">STRI 8</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">[Smithsonian Tropial Research Institute - Thursday, 10 January 2008, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;">[[http://enviro.org.au/enews-description.asp?id=852]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">,]</span>
The <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">drop-off in US soy …………soy and beef prices</span>."

# 3. Soybean farming is devastating the rainforests in Brazil and displacing indigenous peoples—This threatens planetary survival
<span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Barry 3</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">[Glen, PhD, Forest and Rainforest Conservation Blog, http://forests.org/blog/archives/000357.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Eat soybeans produced ……………..depends upon it.</span>

# 4. Soybean farming threatens the Brazilian rainforests biodiversity 
**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Casson 3</span>__** [Anne, August, World Wildlife Fund, Oil Palm, Soybeans and Critical Habitat loss: A report prepared for the WWF Forest Conversion Initiative, http://www.wwf.ch/images/progneut/upload/oilpalmsoybeanscriticalhabitatloss 25August03.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">In Brazil, soybean plantations ………….</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">natural state (Kaimowitz & Smith 2001). </span>

# 5. Loss of biodiversity Leads to Extinction.
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 13pt;">Dinner in ‘94</span>
[David Dinner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology. “The Army and the Endangered Speciies Act: Who’s Endangering Who?. Military Law Review 143. 1994]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To accept that the snail darter, …………….</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">edging closer to the abyss</span>.





==Solvency!== 

# 1. Now is key – delays will only increase the difficulty and expense of repairs and maintenance 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, ’12</span>__</span> [Len Boselovic, “The Consol Energy towboat Aliquippa takes two barges of sand up the Monongahela River to Monessen,” March 18, 2012, http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12078/ 1217742-113.stm]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The longer the delays…………….</span>are more than 70 years old.
# 2. States don’t have jurisdiction over plan
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Stern 12</span>__</span> [Congressional Research Service, Anaylst in Natural Resources Policy, April 12, “Inland waterways: recent proposals and issues for congress”, [[http://kentuckyriverports.com/water_transport_benefits/|http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf]], pg. 1]
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Through the early …………..</span>for many bulk commodities.

# 3. Investment prevents congestion, air pollution and emissions, and starvation- it’s key to jobs, economic competitiveness, and energy security.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Toohey, 2011</span> Michael J. Toohey, president and chief executive of Waterways Council Inc. in Arlington, Va, Waterways Council Inc., “JOC TENS: U.S. National Policy Should Include Capital Investment for Inland Waterways Infrastructure” September 26, www.waterwayscouncil.org
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">America’s inland ………..9 billion by 2050</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

----
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[home#_msoanchor_1|[TH1]]]</span>Use against a CP – this card says that federal funding is KEY.
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]