[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contact info</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Email [[mailto:xon1202@gmail.com|Jacob]] or </span><span class="wiki_link_ext" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[mailto:evanrunburg@gmail.com|Evan]] for specific cites</span>
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Katrina 1ac</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Katrina 1ac-Neolib Advantage]][[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Neolib Advantage]]Neolib Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime that looked on as thousands perished, reflective of a fascist machine where democracy is lost.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux, 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hurricane Katrina may … lost its claims” (2005, 122,124).</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberal urban planning creates areas of concentrated poverty that create zones of conflict, discrimination and suffering.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Goonewardena 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([Kanishka Goonewardena, teaches planning, urban design and critical theory in the Department of Geography at the University of Toronto: The Future of Planning at the ' End of History ', Planning Theory Vol. 2, Issue 3. Date: 11/2003 Pages: 183-224,</span><span class="wiki_link_ext" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/2/3/183]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Accessed: July 17th 2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If on closer … of neoliberal globalization (Bourdieu et al., 1999).</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Neoliberal economic thought fails to take into account non-monetary costs and overlooks human suffering</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bourdieu 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Pierre Bourdieu, French sociologist, anthropologist, and philosopher: Acts of Resistance: Against the Tyranny of the Market, pages 39-40 </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed July 17th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In short, globalization … acts of violence.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rejecting the neoliberal influence in urban planning is a critical step to achieving social goods.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hickel 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Jason Hickel, New Left Project: A Short History of Neoliberalism (And How We Can Fix It),[[http://www.newleftproject.org/index.php/site/article_comments/a_short_history_of_neoliberalism_and_how_we_can_fix_it]]</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed: July 24th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But – perhaps most … and collectively ratified.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Structural violence is the biggest impact, causes more deaths than nuclear war –nuclear extinction evidence is unvalidated and overblown, this re-entrenches the underpinnings of neoliberal thinking.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martin 84</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Dr. Brian Martin, physicist, resource associate in Faculty of Science, SANA Update (Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter), number 16, May 1984, pp. 5-6: Extinction politics, [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/84sana1.html]]</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Accessed: July 25th 2012</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BP]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The possibility of … underlying extinction politics.</span>//
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Katrina 1ac-Racism Advantage]][[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Racism Advantage]]Racism Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that leads to democratic deliberation and political action. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability and racism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Giroux, 2006</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – (Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Biopolitics is not … face of death.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Race, poverty, and a lack of cars made Katrina a display of institutional racism and means that evacuation infrastructure is necessary</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wailoo et al. 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A landmark decision … many inner-city neighborhoods.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism is the root cause of transportation inequalities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pastor et al. 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” [[http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">How consequential is … we now turn.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Institutional racism caused Katrina to be a tragedy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sanchez and Brenman 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Thomas W. Sanchez, PhD, Director and Associate Professor Urban Affairs and Planning Program Virginia Tech – Alexandria Center. Marc Brenman Executive Director Washington State Human Rights Commission Transportation Equity And Environmental Justice: Lessons From Hurricane Katrina [[http://www.ejconference.net/images/Sanchez_Brenman.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The substantially adverse … second-class citizens.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Minorities and low income people are transportation disadvantaged which leads to them dying in disasters</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GAO 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The evacuation of … may require assistance.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ignoring structural racism plays into the façade of white ethics- perpetuates racism through constant, seemingly normal policing, without recognizing the evil of the system</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Martinot and Sexton 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">- (*prof at San Francisco State University PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, Director, African American Studies at UC Irvine (Steve and Jared, “The Avant-garde of white supremacy,” [[http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~marto/avantguard.htm]]</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MGD))</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They prowl, categorizing … of civil procedures.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s not just about New Orleans—Katrina highlighted the pervasive suffering caused by racialized poverty everywhere.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Luft 2009</span>** //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**–**</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Associate Professor, Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara (Rachel, “Beyond Disaster Exceptionalism: Social Movement Developments in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina” American Quarterly, Volume 61, Number 3, September 2009,[[http://www.bupedu.com/lms/admin/uploded_article/eA.477.pdf]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Traditionally, scholars have … a fresh start.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism outweighs every impact – it’s the precondition to ethical political decision making.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Memmi 2000</span>** //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**–**</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The struggle against … stakes are irresistible.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Integrating ethical obligations to the other into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Levinas argues for … the liberal state.</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">** (William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since ‘it is … wants to secure.</span>//
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Katrina 1ac-Plan]][[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its evacuation infrastructure in the United States, starting with New Orleans.</span>**
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Katrina 1ac-Solvency]][[#Affirmative-Maine East 1ac-Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another hurricane is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Telegraph 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Francis Harris in Washington, “City waited for the inevitable but the cost of prevention was just too high” 01 Sep 2005[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/1497397/City-waited-for-the-inevitable-but-the-cost-of-prevention-was-just-too-high.html]] Herm)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For decades, New … They weren't enough.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">New Orleans evacuation plans still lack ways for the car-less to escape</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Renne et al., 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The objective of … and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).</span>


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Transportation infrastructure is critical to evacuation**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Wolshon, 06** – Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Louisiana State University (Brian, “The Aftermath of Katrina”,[[http://www.nae.edu/Publications/Bridge/TheAftermathofKatrina/EvacuationPlanningandEngineeringforHurricaneKatrina.aspx]])</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Although little can … Louisiana and elsewhere.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations CREATES Katrina–like disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Morse 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – (senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008,[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The American transportation … care and treatment.</span>//
==Carriers 1AC - glenbrooks== 
===Inherency=== 
First is inherency.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the height ...</span> **__longer be sustained__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whiteneck, et al. ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9.5pt;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">[[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9.5pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> __For the past ...__</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9.5pt;"> naval BMD assets</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-size: 26pt;">Economy</span>**</span>
Advantage 1 is the economy
The US economy is rapidly declining – laundry list
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Muja 9/13</span>/12<span class="TitleChar"> (Sahit Muja is a staff writer for The Examiner, “New Poll: Romney leads Obama as the U.S. economy worsens”, http://www.examiner.com/article/new-poll-romney-leads-obama-as-the-u-s-economy-worsens//jd)</span>
The unemployment is ...<span class="TitleChar"> environment under Obama.</span>
Economy is on the verge of a crash – no resiliency
Christopher S. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rugaber</span>**, staff writer, Bloomberg, 6-1-**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>**, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm
**__The U.S. economy__** **__...__** **__the global economy.__**
Economic decline causes war
Zalmay **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad,</span>** was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2011</span>**, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>**__economic__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and ...</span> **__era of multi-polarity.__**
Statistics and empirics are on our side
Jedediah **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal</span>**, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2010</span>**, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Less intuitive is ... deserves more attention.</span>
Plan immediately stimulates through the economy
James **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cypher</span>**, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars & Sense, July-August, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2002</span>**, p19(4)
**__The CEP attempts ...__** **__otherwise erratic movement.__**
Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krugman 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton, 12</span>[Paul, __End This Depression Now__, 2012, p. ]
**__In the__** **__middle ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> into this depression</span>

===Military=== 
Advantage 2 is the military.
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Helprin 11</span>**( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ
[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Separated by the ...</span> **__and unrestrained adventurism.__**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1 is Heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lack of US naval heg will result in global war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kagan ‘7</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7-19-2007, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a ...</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9.5pt;"> an easier path</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Scenario 2 is Iran,
Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dyer, 10</span>** - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” 5-12-2010, [[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Each of the ... lots of them.</span>
Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talmadge, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116, [[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States’ ...</span> __U.S. force posture__
That escalates to World War III and extinction
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinberg, 7</span>** (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Sept. 25, retired ... </span>__War III has begun."__
Scenario 3 is China
Decreasing American naval presence leads to Chinese expansionism – that causes a Chinese arms race and Asian instability
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Helprin 11</span>**(Mark Helprin, senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), “The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans”, WSJ
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html //eR)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And yet </span><span class="TitleChar">the ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if it does not.</span>//

//Absent increased American naval intervention, that leads to escalatory regional war which draws in the US//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klein 8/24</span> (Brian Klein, Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow, ex-US diplomat to China and India, writer and global strategist focusing on macroeconomic, geopolitical, and security issues, “Former US Diplomat: The Next Battlefield Will Be The South China Sea” http://www.businessinsider.com/the-south-china-sea-sparks-arms-race-2012-8, 8-24-12// eR)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tensions are rising ...</span><span class="TitleChar"> maintain the peace.</span>

That causes nuclear war and extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Straits Times 2k </span>(Singapore, June 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan //eR)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US estimates ...</span><span class="underline"> way of thinking.</span>//

//Scenario 4 is India//
//US naval power key to India relations//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Curtis and Cheng 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(lisa, dean, Lisa Curtis analyzes America's economic, security and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other nations of South Asia as a senior research fellow at The Heritage Foundation. Lawmakers and journalists alike turn to Curtis for her clear-eyed research and perspective on U.S. interests in some of the most desperate, dangerous and fast-developing parts of the world. Working out of Heritage’s Asian Studies Center, she became a reliable source for many Americans while analyzing breaking news in Pakistan and Afghanistan as a guest expert on CNN, Fox News, MSNBC, CBS, CNBC, PBS and BBC, among other outlets. Curtis has testified before Congress on more than a dozen occasions in recent years on topics related to India, Pakistan, radical Islamists and America’s image abroad. She co-chaired the independent Pakistan Policy Working Group, which in September 2008 published a report, The U.S. and Pakistan: The Next Chapter, which laid out recommendations on how the new administration should engage an unsteady Pakistan. Curtis has been quoted or cited by dozens of news publications. Her commentary has appeared in The Washington Times, National Review Online, FoxNews.com and National Public Radio Online, as well in such South Asian publications as The Mint, an Indian daily, and The News, a Pakistani daily. Before joining Heritage in August 2006, Curtis was a member of the professional staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for three years. She was in charge of South Asia issues for the chairman at the time, Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.). From 2001 to 2003, Curtis was the White House-appointed senior adviser to the assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs, tracking India-Pakistan relations. She worked as an analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency in the late 1990s. Curtis also served abroad in the Foreign Service in the mid-1990s, when she was assigned to the U.S. embassies in Pakistan and India. She has been part of official missions to the region, including a Commerce Department-led delegation to initiate the U.S.-India High Technology Working Group in November 2002 and the U.S. delegation to the International Donors Conference in Pakistan to raise funds for earthquake victims in November 2005. In 1996, Curtis received the State Department’s Meritorious Honor Award for her role as embassy point person in a yearlong, four-nation endeavor to free hostages held by militants in Kashmir. A native of Fort Wayne, Ind., Curtis received a bachelor's degree in economics at Indiana University in 1990. She resides in Herndon, Va., with her husband and two children. , The China Challenge: A strategic vision for U.S.-India relations [[http://blogs.reuters.com/india-expertzone/2011/07/19/the-china-challenge-a-strategic-vision-for-u-s-india-relations/|http://blogs.reuters.com/india-expertzone/2011/07/19/the-china-challenge-a-strategic-vision-for-u-s-india-relations///]] A rad G)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">India must include ... of strategic interests.</span>//


//That solves warming, the economy, proliferation and AIDS//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burns 10</span> (William J. Burns, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs “India’s Rise and the Future of the U.S.-India Relationship” http://www.cfr.org/publication/22326/indias_rise_and_the_future_of_the_usindia_relationship.html//Donnie)
<span class="TitleChar">Building on the ...</span> you very much. (Applause.)

Climate change is real and leads to extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deibel</span>, Professor of IR @ National War College, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span> (Terry L. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Finally, </span>there is ... on this planet.

Scenario 5 is airpower
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Air mobility is the __vital internal link__ to overall air power – it’s declining now</span>**
Richard J. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hazdra, </span>**Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2001</span>** http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since</span> **__airlift__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">was ... national security requirements.</span>

Airpower deters multiple scenarios for nuclear war
Zalmay **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad</span>** and Ian O. Lesser. “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy,” 19**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">98</span>** http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first key ...</span> **__or North Korea__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plan text</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its CVN aircraft carrier fleet.</span>**

===**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solvency</span>**=== 
Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allen 01</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Most fundamentally, </span>**__naval ...__** **__in other regions__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival During the Navy ... stuff" for the United States of America.</span>

Aircraft carriers are key to US power projection
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubel 11</span>**(Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. “The Future of Aircraft Carriers”, Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, [[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers]] EG)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geopolitical Chess Piece. ...</span> **__disconnect is magnified.__**

Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US Navy 12</span>**(“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]] EG)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Description </span>**__Aircraft carriers are ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).</span>

==Guardian of the Skies (LASERS) Affirmative - State== 
Note: this affirmative has a 100% win rate.
===<span style="font-size: 1.6em; line-height: 1.5;">MPADS Adv</span>=== 

Contention one is MPADS.
Collapse of the Libyan regime flooded the market with anti-aircraft missiles called MPADS which non-state actors will use to target American aircraft
Roach and Zuckerman 12 (Morgan Lorraine Roach, research associate in The Heritage Foundation’s
AND
in-north-africa-and-the-sahel //Jacob)//
//When the Libyan regime of Colonel Muammar Qadhafi fell last year, its weapon stockpiles//
//AND//
//and the introduction of terrorist tactics yet unknown in the U.S.//
//An attack destroys the airline industry and collapse our economy//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Whitmire 06</span> (Major James C. “Chris”, graduated in the top one percent of his class with military and academic honors, is a senior pilot with over 3,800 hours in military and commercial aircraft and 21 combat sorties, holds an FAA Airline Transport Pilot certificate, received numerous airmanship awards and served in many leadership capacities including training chief, evaluator, functional check pilot, flying general instructor, and interim operations officer, Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering from the U.S. Air Force Academy, was the department’s top graduate, Master of Science Degree from the Institute of Aerodynamic Flight Structures, Columbia University, ,completed as a Guggenheim Scholar, was the Air War College IMA of the Year for 2003 and an Air Education and Training Command finalist, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA461534, Jacob)//
//The consequences of a MANPADS attack on United States’ carriers span many levels of consideration//
//AND//
//disproportionate rates and Americans would further doubt the federal government’s ability to protect them//
//Absent a strike they’re in the black – we assume all of your warrants//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Karp 12</span> (Gregory Karp, Chicago Tribune reporter and editor for 20 years, 3/9/12, FAA: Profitable times likely ahead for airlines,” Chicago Tribune, Accessed online at http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-03-09/business/ct-biz-0309-notebook-airlines-20120309_1_american-airlines-parent-united-continental-holdings-iam, Accessed on 6/27/12)//
//The airline industry, which traditionally has run in boom-and-bust cycles//
//AND//
//flying more miles, and we expect that to continue in future years,"//
//Plan solves for MANPADS – solves terror strikes on airports//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NG 7</span> (Northrop Grumman Corp., leading global security company, “Skyguard”, http://www.as.northropgrumman.com/products/skyguard/assets/Skyguard_FactSheet_0.pdf, 6/07// Evan)
Northrop Grumman also offers Skyguard as a critical, cost effective component of a layered
AND
-term, cost-effective deterrent against a wide range of threats.



Two impacts, first is the economy –
The Airline Industry is key to US economic growth and global competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AFA 12</span> [formerly known as Air Transport Association of America, Inc. (ATA), was the first and remains the only trade organization of the principal U.S. airlines, “The Case for a U.S. National Airline Policy” [[@http://www.womeningovernment.org/files/SharonPinkerton.pdf]], 2-28-12 RH]
Summary A Vibrant U.S. Airline Industry Is Critical to U.S
AND
T-100 traffic data; Census Bureau, BCG analysis 3 5.



Economic decline leads to conflict – all studies go our way
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span>[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215 //STRONG]//
//Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict//
//AND//
//not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.//



//Second is air power –//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Airline industry demand is key to the overall aerospace </span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gomez et al</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>[Ben Hur Gomez, undergraduate at Harvard pursuing a degree in quantitative finance, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)] “Dependence on key customers”,)//
//PCP’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of both Boeing Company (BA//
//AND//
//the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.//



//That preserves airpower and heg//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walker et al 2</span>[Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf// STRONG]
Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal
AND
armed forces, thus maintaining our position as the world’s preeminent military power.
Hegemony solves all war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zhang and Shi 11</span> (Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/|www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]] //A rad G)
This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it
AND
forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.



Airpower specifically is key to East Asian deterrence – solves a plethora of nuclear scenarios
Zalmay <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad</span> and Ian O. Lesser. “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy,” 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">98</span> http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/
The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American
AND
effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.
===DEW Adv=== 
Contention two is direct energy weapons.
There’s no investment in DEWs in the status quo
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
In 2007, the Defense Science Board Task Force on Directed Energy Weapons concluded that
AND
affect the transition of promising new DE technologies to real-world capabilities.



Solutions are ready but won’t be invested in due to military withholds to unproven tech – spotlight projects like the aff are key to broader funding and implementation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
Much has been written regarding the U.S. military’s reluctance to adopt new
AND
technologies that have no potential to be carried by aircraft or cruise missiles.



That’s key – pilot projects will generate usage and create a paradigm shift to energy weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David 06</span>(Leonard David, Senior Writer citing J. Douglas Beason graduated from the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Air_Force_Academy|United States Air Force Academy]] in 1977 with a dual major in physics and math returning there as an officer in the 1980s to teach physics retired an Air Force Colonel with a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PhD|PhD]] in physics. Is also a Fellow of the American Physical Society and is currently Associate Laboratory Director for Threat Reduction at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, 11 January 2006, http://www.space.com/1934-weapons-directed-energy-warfare-21st-century.html //Jacob)//
//While progress in directed-energy is appreciable, Beason sees two upfront problems in//
//AND//
//destructive strikes at the speed of light with little or no collateral damage.//



//Plan solves – it demonstrates the best qualities of energy weapons//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NG 7</span> (Northrop Grumman Corp., leading global security company, “Skyguard”, http://www.as.northropgrumman.com/products/skyguard/assets/Skyguard_FactSheet_0.pdf, 6/07// Evan)
Northrop Grumman, the nation’s leader in developing chemical and solid-state laser technology
AND
, rockets, artillery projectiles, small arms fire, and truck crashes.



We isolate three scenarios. The first is cruise missiles.
Directed energy weapons are key to cruise missile defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McLeary 12</span> (Paul, staff writer for Navy Times. “Group to DoD: Focus on directed energy weapons”, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/04/defense-group-pentagon-focus-directed-energy-weapons-041912/ 4/19/12 //Evan)//
//The U.S. should focus on the development of directed energy weapons to//
//AND//
//directed energy weapons on small aircraft, tactical ground vehicles and aboard ships.//



//They’re proliferating now – defense solves bioweapon attacks, nuke war, and terrorism//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kueter and Kier 7</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeff, President, The George C. Marshall Institute, and David, , Vice President, Lockheed Martin Corporation , July 9, The Cruise Missile Challenge, Marshall Institute, page @ http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/557.pdf, </span>//Adam-Rufus)
So what is a cruise missile? There are two broad categories of cruise missiles
AND
,” nor is there budget for it. Thank you for your time.



Bioweapons cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinbruner 97</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(John Steinbruner, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, chair of the committee on international security and arms control of the National Academy of Sciences, December 22, 1997, Foreign Policy //Adam-Rufus)//</span>
//That deceptively simple observation has immense implications. The use of a manufactured weapon//
//AND//
//for a global contagion of this sort but not necessarily its outer limit.//



//Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span>(Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld I love you akshay!!!!!)//
//A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by//
//AND//
//for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.//



//Scenario two is future war.//
//Iran and North Korea are proliferating and preparing for war – reliance on status quo deterrence will cause escalation into global instability and escalatory nuclear war//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Haffa 12</span> (Robert P. Haffa Jr, USAF graduate, PhD in political science, “Full-Spectrum Air Power: Building the Air Force America Needs” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/10/full-spectrum-air-power-building-the-air-force-america-needs 10/12/12// eR)
Iran and North Korea also pose significant risks to American interests and international security because
AND
state actors dedicated to carrying out terrorist attacks against American and allied interests

A Korean nuclear exchange causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hayes and Green 10</span> (Peter, Professor of International Relations – Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and Director – Nautilus Institute, and Michael Hamel, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report, 1-5, http://www.nautil us.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) [ ]***discourse paraphrased**
**At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack1, whether by intention,**
**AND**
**threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.**



**An Iranian conflict escalates to world war three**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinberg, 7</span>** (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st]])
On Sept. 25, retired CIA officer Philip Giraldi penned a frightening piece for
AND
of intervention. As Giraldi concludes, "World War III has begun."



Scenario three is china
China is preparing a reconnaissance-strike complex and A2/AD strategy to undermine US military ops
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
Although projecting military force overseas has always been a challenging and costly endeavor for the
AND
of operation effectively, or do so at acceptable levels of risk.12



Chinese government structure makes escalation uniquely likely
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacDonald 11</span> (Bruce, Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)
One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that they are the
AND
control, providing ample opportunity for crisis and conflict in the years ahead.
Conflict with China is inevitable – absent the plan we lose and it escalates
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”, [[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
The following scenario illustrates how China might execute an A2/AD strategy fifteen to
AND
Navy to divert resources to convoy escort and anti-submarine warfare missions.
Extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hunkovic 9</span> [Lee J, American Military University 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate
AND
outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.
DEWs are key –
1) Blinding operations
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
The PLA’s ability to strike U.S. and allied targets across long ranges
AND
could be particularly effective against the overhead satellites used to target CSGs.112



2) Missile defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
DE systems could support U.S. counter-missile operations across the entire
AND
. forward operating locations with a formidable and cost-effective missile defense network



3) Counter IADS and allowance of air operations
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gunzinger and Dougherty 12</span> (Mark Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, and Chris Dougherty, has supported numerous CSBA wargames with a particular focus on developing operational concepts and capabilities for countering anti-access/area-denial threats, April 19, 2012, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “CHANGING THE GAME: THE PROMISE OF DIRECTED-ENERGY WEAPONS”,[[https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf%20/jacob|https://info.aiaa.org/tac/pc/DESPC/Lists/Announcements/Attachments/3/CSBA_ChangingTheGame_online.pdf //jacob]])
In addition to fielding large quantities of ballistic and cruise missiles, the PLA possesses
AND
security for forward-area air refueling and wide-area surveillance operations.
Try or die aff – Only a shift to forward basing and missile defense provided by DEWs solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Haffa 12</span> (Robert P. Haffa Jr, USAF graduate, PhD in political science, “Full-Spectrum Air Power: Building the Air Force America Needs” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/10/full-spectrum-air-power-building-the-air-force-america-needs 10/12/12 //eR)
Research and develop laser-based missile defenses for regional air bases. The Air
AND
in favor of U.S. power-projection forces.”[60]
===PLAN=== 
Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase investment in deployment of the Skyguard airport defense system.
===SOLVENCY=== 
Contention three is Solvency.
DoD and DHS cooperating funding and implementation is key to best solvency and overcoming any possible challenges
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spencer and Carafano 4</span>(Jack, Senior Research Fellow on Nuclear Energy Policy, and Dr. James Jay Ph.D., Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, is one of the nation’s leading experts in defense and homeland security, and directs The Heritage Foundation’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies. “The Use of Directed-Energy Weapons to Protect Critical Infrastructure”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2004/08/the-use-of-directed-energy-weapons-to-protect-critical-infrastructure, August 2, 2004 //Evan)
To take full advantage of directed-energy weapons for use in securing critical U
AND
produce less (at greater cost) than they would by working together.
===ADDON – BMD=== 
Directed energy weapons are key to effective ballistic missile defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mason 9</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David M., Lieutenant Colonel USAF, “DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPON SYSTEM FOR BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE”, 15 February 2009, http://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=697391 //Evan)//</span>
//Directed energy weapons have come of age over the years and could be scaled to//
//AND//
//The unique attributes of lasers has the potential to revolutionize missile defense operations.//
//And, BMD solves all their impacts and is key to deterring nuclear exchange//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frederick 9</span> (Lieutenant Colonel Lorinda A., USAD, “Deterrence and Space-Based Missile Defense” http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/fal09/frederick.html September 2009// Evan)
BMD should primarily be considered a vital part of a deterrent strategy and secondarily an
AND
as a vital part of deterrence to help restrain rogue elements and proliferators.


=Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Maine East Scrimmage</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 vs HSR</span>=== 
Cap K
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 3 vs Port Security</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> T increase</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> T monitoring</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Security K</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Counter-terror CP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> elections</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2nr: case D, disad, CP</span>
==Glenbrook== 
===Round 1 vs electric vehicles=== 
T vehicles
Tax incentives CP
Fiscal cliff DA
Cap K
Russia Oil DA
2NR: PTX and CP
===Round 3 vs gax tax=== 
T investment
Russia oil DA
Fiscal cliff DA
Cap K
States CP
2NR: States and PTX
===Round 5 vs icebreakers=== 
T Mil
T in the US
DOD tradoff
Icesats CP
Fiscal cliff DA
Security K
2NR: PTX and case

==Niles RR== 
===Round 1 vs HSR=== 
Cap K
Nepa CP
Sequestration DA
T vehicles
2NR: Cap K
===Round 3 vs HSR=== 
Cap K
Nepa CP
Sequestration DA
T vehicles
2NR: <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Sequestration DA</span>
===Round 5 vs NIB=== 
Cap K
Nepa CP
Sequestration DA
T direct investment
2NR: Nepa CP
==State== 
===Round 1 vs Icebreakers=== 
T mil/ T vehicles /T operations / extra T / effects T
Security K
"operations" PIC
CIR
2NR: "operations" PIC
===Round 3 vs Port Security=== 
T monitoring
Kappeler K
NEPA CP
CIR
2NR: <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">NEPA CP</span>
===Round 5 vs Port security=== 
T monitoring
WoT K
NEPA CP
CIR
2NR: <span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">T</span>
===Quarter Finals vs NIB=== 
T direct investment
Cap K
NEPA CP
CIR
2NR: Condo Good
===Semi Finals vs icebreakers=== 
T mil/ T vehicles /T operations / extra T / effects T
T In
NEPA CP
"operations" PIC
CIR
2NR: severance perms bad / condo good
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]