[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
Aff Cites: chris.ts.lee@gmail.com (but he's lazy so probably won't reply)
Neg Cites (and aff cites if Chris is being lazy): leejin97@gmail.com
=1AC ASU= 
==Contention One is Inherency:== 
Russia is fully committed to a Bering Strait tunnel—US support is the key barrier and the project would permanently cement US-Russian relations and Russian Far East development
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MOSCOW NEWS 2012</span> (“Tunneling to America?” April 28, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia's Urals oil has been over $100 </span>
AND 
reset with Moscow could be welded in steel.
==Advantage One: US-Russian Relations== 
US-Russian relations are deteriorating—the plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">KIRACOFE 6/24/12</span> [Clifford A. Kiracofe, teaches political science at Washington and Lee University and history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government, June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml, DMintz]
In the interest of world peace and development
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the outcome of the US elections in November.</span>


Relations collapse inevitable without the aff
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rojansky 9/5 </span>(Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "U.S.-Russia Cooperation Beyond 2012", carnegieendowment.org/2012/09/05/u.s.-russia-cooperation-beyond-2012/drem)
The relationship between the United States and Russia 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">whole relationship hostage when the next crisis arises.</span>

The aff cements a permanent peace of US-Russia cooperation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Barry 11</span> [ Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, October 04, 2011, “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada, DMintz]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from building an ACRL, which would </span>
AND 
great global task of __//permanent peace-building//.__


Even if relations are inevitable, it’s a question of effectiveness – they solve everything
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collins and Rojansky '10 </span>(James F. Collins, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program and expert on USSR, Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "Why Russia Matters", 8/18/10,www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3siGH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A year and a half </span>after Barack Obama 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And good relations would be even better.</span>

Souring of relations means war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen '10 </span>(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., 4/12/10, "Obama's Approach to Arms Control Misreads Russian Nuclear Strategy", www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategyGH-Aspomer)
At the signing of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>START<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> follow-</span>
AND 
use of nuclear weapons, strategically or tactically.

It makes miscalc likely – START doesn’t solve
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cohen ’10 </span>(prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cohen: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The real concern I have with </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the think tanks, can connect these dots.</span>

All your defense is factually incorrect
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SGR '08</span>
(Scientists for Global Responsibility, Autumn 2008, Issue 36, "High-alert nuclear weapons: the forgotten danger", [[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf/GH-Aspomer|www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf//GH-Aspomer]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Official denials </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US officials have</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, in the </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">for a new global nuclear environmental treaty.44</span>

Russia is key to a peaceful resolution on Syria
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post 1/30</span> [The Post’s View , “Saving Syria requires Russia’s cooperation,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/saving-syria-requires-russias-cooperation/2012/01/30/gIQA40fYdQ_story.html] Gangeezy
The Arab League plan is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> probably </span>the only 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">material aid for the opposition should not be.</span>

Syria Causes escalating proxy wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erlanger 12</span> [Steven, Paris bureau chief of the New York Times, “Syrian Conflict Poses the Risk of Wider Strife,” 2/25/12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/26/world/middleeast/syrian-conflict-poses-risk-of-regional-strife.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the dead pile up and diplomacy fails </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Israel </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is in there, too.”</span>

That becomes Global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Primakov 9</span> [September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Middle East conflict is unparalleled in<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> terms </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">does not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>
==Advantage Two: Russian Far East== 
Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian Far East development—now is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2011</span> (“Yakutsk dreams of traveling to America by railway,” August 19, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Razbegin, </span>the transport link could 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">shores of the two continents will be connected.</span>

The plan would draw world attention and overcome barriers to investment
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DALZIEL 2011</span> (Stephen, executive director of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce, “From London to New York via Siberia on train;” This online supplement is produced and published by Rossiyskaya Gazeta (Russia), which takes sole responsibility for the content, The Telegraph, Oct 15, lexis)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Russia's size is a blessing and a curse</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or to put a man on the Moon.</span>

Infrastructure development in the Russian Far East is key to prevent Chinese encroachment
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">BLAGOV 2007</span> (Sergei, Moscow-based analyst for ISN Security Watch, EnerPub, April 2, http://www.energypublisher.com/article.asp?idarticle=8786)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, critics have questioned the strategic wisdom </span>
AND 
by <span style="font-size: 8pt;">any external power, such as </span>China.

The impact is nuclear winter
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SHARAVIN 2001</span> (Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now, a few words about the third </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the first frost of a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possible </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nuclear winter.</span>

Integrating RFE resources is key to overall Russian stability
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GARNETT 2000</span> (Sherman, Dean of James Madison College at MSU, Rapprochement or Rivalry? p34)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the </span>integration of the resources of 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have on shaping the future of all Asia.</span>

Political instability causes a nuclear strike on the US
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PRY 1999</span> (Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)
Russian internal troubles<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—such as a leadership </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">West ignorant that it was in grave peril.</span>
==Plan Text:== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a Bering Strait Tunnel within maritime boundaries of the United States. We reserve the right to clarify.
==Contention Two is Solvency:== 
Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)
Russia is all set to complete the extension 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">linking it with cities in Canada and onwards.</span>

Power links between the US and Russia will be laid before the railroad is even completed—this alone pays for the project
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)
The rail right-of-way can 
AND 
to aid in completion of the overall project.

Shipping will rapidly pay for itself
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)
Once an intercontinental rail link connects the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">vast </span>
AND 
should prove itself very rapidly after its opening.

It would only cost $10 billion and will be completed in 10 years
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Humber and Cook 7.</span> “Russia Plans World's Longest Tunnel, a Link to Alaska (Update4)”
By Yuriy Humber and Bradley Cook - April 18, 2007 16:38 EDT
The project, which Russia is coordinating with 
AND 
the entire transport corridor,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the plan estimates.</span>

US and Russia are key—other countries will get on board
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RUSSIA & CIS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWSWIRE 2012</span> (“Russian Railways chief believes tunnel can be built under Bering Strait,” April 9, lexis)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A decision on building a tunnel under the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">so </span>//multilateral cooperation is inevitable,//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" he said.</span>

Cooperation with Russia is no longer based in power politics
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LaBanca '11</span>
(Gregory R. LaBanca, B.A., Georgetown, 4/15/11, "Forecasting Uncertainty: U.S. and Russian Threat Dynamics During the 'Reset'", https://repository.library.georgetown.edu/bitstream/handle/10822/553533/laBancaGregoryRobert.pdf?sequence=1//GH-Aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">CONCLUSION Assessing the Hypotheses </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The process of worst </span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">coherent and simple stories to explain their discontent.</span>

=Negative= 
=Neg Strats= 
==ASU== 
**Round 1 vs. McClintock BL (Smart Growth)**
1NC: T-TI is fixed assets, Security K, Should PIC, Case
2NC: T, Security
1NR: Should PIC, Case
2NR: T

**Round 3 vs. Sage Ridge CL (PPSP)**
1NC: T-Excludes communications, Security K, Case
2NC: Security 
1NR: Case
2NR: Security + Case

**Round 6 vs. South Anchorage CJ (Natives)**
1NC: Global Local K, States CP, Federalism, Water Tradeoff, Case
2NC: Water Tradeoff, Global Local
1NR: States, Federalism, Case
2NR: Global Local + Case

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]