=Affirmative= 
email sidvjain@gmail.com or check other pine crest wiki's for aff info.

=Umich 1AC= 

==Advantage 1 is Leadership:== 

====The race for Fuel Cell Technology is happening now==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">James </span>**Billmaier****10**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (CEO and chairman of Asymetrix and Sun Microsystems Networking, "Jolt%21 The Impending Dominance of the Electric Car", http://joltthebook.org/) </span>

The internal combustion engine is dying. Its death throes may take 20 years,
AND
we~’re going to need to move fast to become the undisputed market leader.

**US Investment in a Fuel Cell Bus Program is necessary to win the race**
**FCHEA 11**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf</span>
International Competition – International programs vying to take the lead in clean mass transit are
AND
that is difficult to realize¶ with other heavy<span style="font-family: 'Noteworthy Light';">‐</span>duty propulsion technologies.

====If the U.S. loses the fuel cell commercialization race it risks becoming dependent and getting shut out of global markets==== 
**Jerram 11**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Lisa Jerram is a senior research analyst contributing to Pike Research~’s Smart Transportation practice Could the United States Lose its Share of the Global Fuel Cell Market? January 28, 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.pikeresearch.com/blog/articles/could-the-united-states-lose-its-share-of-the-global-fuel-cell-market</span>

In my last post, I opined that the United States was at risk of
AND
in the market so may gain a permanent "first mover" advantage.


====An expanded federal investment that builds on the experience of the existing program in transit bus infrastructure would create a transition to commercialization of fuel cell technology and assure U.S. industrial leadership==== 
**FCHEA 11**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf-http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Transit Bus Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf]]</span>

Unit Price At or Under %241 million – An expanded FCEB program would put
AND
table below that shows the¶ extent of petroleum and emissions reductions achievable.

Scenario 1 is Hegemony

====This race for fuel cell batteries will determine geopolitical power for the future==== 
**Levine 10**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Steve LeVine is a contributing editor at Foreign Policy and an adjunct professor at Georgetown University~’s Security Studies Program. Foreign Policy November 2010 [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/11/the_great_battery_race?hidecomments=yes-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/11/the_great_battery_race?hidecomments=yes]]</span>

The Chinese government saw in the technology that Wan had mastered a potential future pillar
AND
And those who don~’t will be at the mercy of those who do.

====The shift in geostrategic power will unleash a wave of global conflict scenarios==== 
**Khalilzad 11**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2011 ("The Economy and National Security," </span>National Review<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, February 8</span>^^th^^<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024, Accessed 02-08-2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Today, </span>economic<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> and fiscal </span>trends pose the most severe long-term threat to the United States~’ position as global leader<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>While the United States suffers from<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> fiscal imbalances and </span>low economic growth<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">, </span>the economies of rival powers are developing rapidly<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">. The </span>continuation<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> of these two trends </span>could lead to a shift from American primacy toward a multi-polar global system, leading<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> in turn </span>to<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> increased </span>geopolitical rivalryand<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> even </span>war among the great powers<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
The current recession is the result of a deep financial crisis, not a mere
AND
debt rose from 38 to over 60 percent of GDP in three years.
Without faster economic growth and actions to reduce deficits, publicly held national debt is
AND
that would almost certainly compel a radical retrenchment of the United States internationally.
Such scenarios would reshape the international order. It was the economic devastation of Britain
AND
be compelled to retrench, reducing its military spending and shedding international commitments.
We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth.
AND
preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation.
The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among
AND
leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.

Loss of Hegemony leads to Nuclear War
**Thayer 6**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, "In Defense of Primacy", November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world~’s
AND
strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.

====Scenario 2 is Readiness:==== 

====Energy needs are crippling U.S. warfighting capabilities==== 
**Department of the Navy 11**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Manufacturing Fuel Cell Manhattan Project</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Presented by the Benchmarking and Best Practices Center of Excellence</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">November 2011http://www1.eere.energy.gov/hydrogenandfuelcells/pdfs/manufacturing_fuel_cell_manhattan_project.pdf</span>

The ability of the United States military to decisively defeat its enemies is greatly due
AND
technology with the potential to meet some of these increasing military energy requirements.

====Successful civilian commercialization will lead to military use of fuel cells==== 
**Fein 04**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Geoff S. Fein is the Defense Daily~’s lead reporter covering the Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and intelligence programs, acquisition, research and development, and science and technology. Military Fuel-Cell Programs Not Yet Ready for Prime Time [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2004/February/Pages/Military_Fuel3647.aspx-http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2004/February/Pages/Military_Fuel3647.aspx]]</span>

While the commercial industry is taking significant steps forward in the adoption of fuel cell
AND
alleviate the burden of carrying heavy loads of batteries to the front lines.

====Future electrical power is key to readiness==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Nicholas </span>**Sifer**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> et al 6-2-20</span>**04**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">. PMP project engineer, Marine Corps System Command, (Ashok S. Patil, Terry G. Dubois, Nicholas Sifer, Elizabeth Bostic, Kristopher Gardner, Michael Quah, Christopher Bolton), , http://64.233.179.104/scholar?hl=en%26lr=%26safe=off%26q=cache:cIWWJBe6PCEJ:www.eecs.wsu.edu/~~pedrow/classes/ee415/Fall_2005/Refereed%20Papers/paper2_cobalt.pdf</span>

Electrical power for the future battlefield will become a critical enabling technology for robotics,
AND
involve the miniaturization of systems and the ability to tolerate fuels containing sulfur.

====Readiness is key to deter North Korean aggression==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Walter T </span>Ham ~’12<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (General for the 8th army of the US, "General: High Readiness Key to Deter North Korean Threats", August 10, 2012, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=117463-http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=117463]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 10, 2012 – Maintaining a high state
AND
nation serves as a great example of what free people can accomplish together."

====North Korean Aggression causes Extinction==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Peter </span>**Hayes**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> and Michael </span>**Hamel**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">-</span>**Green****~’09**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Ph.D. from UC – Berkeley, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, member of the Pacific Council on International Policy, the Western partner of the Council on Foreign Relations; and the US Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, "The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia," The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14 2009,[[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267-http://www.japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments
AND
authors has characterized elsewhere as "the end of American nuclear hegemony."8

====Scenario 3 is Economic Competiveness:==== 

====Economic Leadership is on the brink of collapse==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Michael E. </span>**Porter**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> and Jan W. </span>**Rivkin**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> ~’</span>**12**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Porter is a Bishop William Lawrence University Proffessor based at Harvard Business School, Rivkin is a professor at Harvard Business School, "PROSPERITY AT RISK", January 2012, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.hbs.edu/competitiveness/pdf/hbscompsurvey.pdf-http://www.hbs.edu/competitiveness/pdf/hbscompsurvey.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

On any given day, virtually every major media outlet, the¶ debate in
AND
party¶ lines and involves both the private and the public¶ sectors.

====Fuel cell technology is the key to U.S. global economic leadership==== 
**Minardi 11**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Dean Minardi is the chief financial officer for Bing Energy Inc., a manufacturer of state-of-the-art components for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells Don~’t Give Away Our Leadership in Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Technologies [[http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html-http://www.7ms.com/fct/online/2011/05/~dont-give-away-our-leadership-in-fuel-cell.html]]</span>

The Obama Administration~’s recent decision to slash funding for fuel cell and hydrogen energy programs
AND
hydrogen energy programs and ensure our place of leadership in this important arena.

**Economic decline makes war highly likely**
Royal 10<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, "Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises," in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

These wars go nuclear
O~’Donnell, 9<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (2/26/09, Sean, "Will this recession lead to World War III?" http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III )</span>

Could the current economic crisis affecting this country and the world lead to another world
AND
possibility of World War III is averted. However sometimes history repeats itself.

==Advantage 2 is Oil:== 

**Peak oil is coming – only the perception of a switch away from oil can solve**
**Meijer** 7/4/12<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> – Editor in chief of The Automatic Earth ~~[Raul Ilargi Meijer, "Unconventional Oil is NOT a Game Changer," </span>Market Oracle<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, July 04, 2012 - 04:50 AM , pg. http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article35453.html~~]</span>

At the same time, in the case of oil, we are seeing a
AND
boom is temporary, precisely because these circumstances will generate a price collapse.

====Fuel Cell Buses are the critical step to oil independence==== 
**National Environmental Trust ~’03**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> ("reducing oil dependency to increase national security: re-engineering the automobile",[[http://lobby.la.psu.edu/_107th/126_CAFE_Standards_2/Organizational_Statements/NET/NET_Reducing_Oil_Dependency.htm-http://lobby.la.psu.edu/_107th/126_CAFE_Standards_2/Organizational_Statements/NET/NET_Reducing_Oil_Dependency.htm]]) </span>

In the long term, no technology has greater potential to reduce our nation~’s need
AND
"There are no technical showstoppers to implementing a direct hydrogen infrastructure."31

====Dependence causes US-Sino conflict over SLOC~’s==== 
Glaser 11<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja-http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja]], August 2011, PC)</span>

Energy dependence might be most dangerous if it brings the United States into conflict with
AND
increased probability of conflict would be over issues not directly related to oil.

War with China goes nuclear
Cheong 2k <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, lexis nexis)</span>
The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation.

====Dependence causes US-Russia war- NATO-Georgian alliance sparks conflict==== 
Glaser 11<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja-http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, August 2011, PC)</span>

An alliance formed to protect access to energy can draw a state into a conflict
AND
would have contributed significantly to defining the context in which this conflict occurred.

====That goes nuclear==== 
Bandow 12<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Doug, Senior fellow at CATO, How NATO Expansion Makes America Less Safe, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/how-nato-expansion-makes-america-less-safe-http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/how-nato-expansion-makes-america-less-safe]]//</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, 8/13/12, PC)</span>//

//Worse, NATO expansion brings the political and territorial disputes of new members with each//
//AND//
//issues of negligible importance to America. Such a policy would be madness.//
//Oil dependence causes conflict over the Straits of Hormuz to go nuclear//
//Glaser 11 (Charles, Professor of Political Science and International Relations Elliot School of International Affairs The George Washington University , Reframing Energy Security: How Oil Dependence Influences U.S. National Security, [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog%2520Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja-http://www.google.com/url?sa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=1%26ved=0CF8QFjAA%26url=http%3A%2F%2Fdepts.washington.edu%2Fpolsadvc%2FBlog Links%2FGlaser_-_EnergySecurity-AUGUST-2011.docx%26ei=Wf0qUPXYGIrc9ASht4GYDQ%26usg=AFQjCNHTus7nNaD7cou-poSU7c3LGSu7tg%26sig2=Xt_iWePfWtNRvDmeYR1Hlw%26cad=rja]], August 2011, PC)


Energy dependence could draw the United States into a conflict in which a regional power
AND
a full-scale invasion or a conventional attack against their nuclear forces.

Extinction
Hirsch, 06<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Jorge Hirsch (San Diego Union Tribune) January 3, 2006 "America~’s nuclear ticking bomb" http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If only conventional bombs are used in an unprovoked U.S. or Israeli aerial attack against Iran~’s facilities, Iran is likely to retaliate with missiles against coalition forces in Iraq and against Israel, as well as possibly a ground invasion of southern Iraq, that the 150,000 U.S. troops in Iraq would not be able to withstand. Iranian missiles could potentially contain chemical warheads, and it certainly would be impossible to rule out such possibility. Iran has signed and ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention (in 1993 and 1997 respectively), however it is still likely to have supplies, as determined by the U.S. State Department in August 2005. </span>Early use by the United States of low-yield nuclear bombs with better bunker-busting ability than conventional bombs targeting Iranian nuclear, chemical and missile installations would be consistent with the new U.S. nuclear weapons doctrine and could be argued to be necessary to protect the lives of 150,000 U.S. soldiers in Iraq and of Israeli citizens. It would also send a clear message to Iran that any response would be answered by a far more devastating nuclear attack<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, thus potentially saving both American and Iranian lives. </span>However, the nuclear threshold is a line of no return. Once the United States uses a nuclear weapon against a nonnuclear adversary, the 182 countries that are signatories of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty will rightly feel at risk, and many of them will rush to develop their own nuclear deterrent while they can. A new world with many more nuclear countries, and a high risk of any regional conflict exploding into all-out nuclear war, will be the consequence.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The scientific community (which created nuclear weapons) is alarmed over the new U.S. nuclear weapons policies. A petition to reverse these policies launched by physicists at the University of California San Diego has gathered over 1,500 physicists~’ signatures including eight Nobel laureates and many prominent members of the U.S. scientific establishment (http://physics.ucsd.edu/petition/). Scientists object strongly to the concept of WMD, that lumps together nuclear weapons with other "weapons of mass destruction" and blurs the sharp line that separates immensely more destructive nuclear weapons from all other weapons. </span>An escalating nuclear war could lead to the destruction of civilization. There is no fundamental difference between small nuclear bombs and large ones<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, nor</span>






































































**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in an expanded fuel cell bus program.**



==Contention 3 is solvency:== 

====The federal government currently has a smaller scale transit bus demonstration program which has developed the experience and expertise for success. Expanding this program is key to solvency==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Fred </span>**Silver****~’11**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Vice president of CalSTART and has worked with the Federal Transit Agency for more than twelve years focusing on the commercialization of new bus technologies including Zero Emission Fuel Cell and Battery Buses, Hybrid Vehicles and Advanced Bus Rapid Transit Vehicles, "Zero Emission Bus Program", Febuary 2, 2011, [[http://www.hydrogennet.dk/fileadmin/user_upload/PDF-filer/Brint_og_braendselsceller_internationalt/Dansk-amerikansk_samarbejde/Fuel_Cell_Collaboration_in_the_U_S__aug_2011_vers..pdf-http://www.hydrogennet.dk/fileadmin/user_upload/PDF-filer/Brint_og_braendselsceller_internationalt/Dansk-amerikansk_samarbejde/Fuel_Cell_Collaboration_in_the_U_S__aug_2011_vers..pdf]]</span>)
Recognizing the important role of transit in validating and deploying new transportation technologies, the
AND
be expected to "spill over" to other heavy duty transportation applications.

====The plan will lead to Fuel Cell Commercialization:==== 

====A. Federal Action==== 
**Center for Transportation and the Environment 09**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">A Report on Worldwide Hydrogen Bus Demonstrations, 2002-2007</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.fuelcells.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/busreport.pdf</span>
Role of government in accelerating commercialization¶ Demonstration participants envisioned two main roles for government
AND
repeating what has already been done, rather than moving the technology forward.


====B. Buses are uniquely important==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**Eudy et al ~’07**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, "Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status", National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf-http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Over the past several years, many nations around the world have increasingly focused on
AND
benefits of advanced technologies, which leads to broader public knowledge and acceptance.

====C. Testing==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**Eudy et al ~’07**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, "Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status", National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf-http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
As discussed earlier, in-service demonstrations of fuel cell buses are essential for
AND
projects are critical for measuring progress and determining the next steps toward commercialization.

====D. Public awareness==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**Eudy et al ~’07**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, "Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status", National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf-http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
These early demonstrations are meeting an important need to increase the public~’s awareness of hydrogen
AND
demonstration project reports observing a high level of public interest in its area.

====E. Data Collection==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie </span>**Eudy****et al ~’07**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Project leader at the Hydrogen Technologies and Systems Center, Kevin Chandler, Christina Gikakis, National Fuel Cell Bus Program Manager, "Fuel Cell Buses in U.S. Transit Fleets: Summary of Experiences and Current Status", National Renewable Energy Laboratory, September 2007, [[</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf-http://www.nrel.gov/hydrogen/pdfs/41967.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The greatest value of demonstrating these vehicles and infrastructure can be achieved only by validation
AND
have already used the results to help plan their rules and incentive programs.




Wake/gtown 1AC

==Economy Advantage== 


Economic collapse now – 3 reasons

1.) Double dip
**Nouriel Roubini 7/23/2012- Phd in international economics at Harvard University, professor at New York University~’s Stern School of Business and is the chairman of Roubini Global Economics, an economic consultancy firm. (US Economy Going from Bad to Worse: Roubini," [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577-http://www.cnbc.com/id/48281577]])**
A robust and self-sustaining U.S. recovery is not on the
AND
Europe~’s malaise and emerging countries~’ slowdown — will catch pneumonia," he warned.


2.) Jobs
**Hing 7/28**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2012 ~~[Regina, "Jobs growth, Fed take center stage next week," [[http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-07-28/markets/32890947_1_jobs-report-jobs-growth-wilmington-trust-investment-advisors-http://articles.marketwatch.com/2012-07-28/markets/32890947_1_jobs-report-jobs-growth-wilmington-trust-investment-advisors]]~~]</span>

U.S. stock investors are likely to focus on jobs, the
AND
it~’s not going to be enough to make a dent," he said.


3.) Consumer confidence decreasing.
**Woellert 9/6/12 (Lorraine, Bloomberg news reporter, Bloomberg News, "Consumer comfort gauge signals severe discontent for fifth week", [[**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/consumer-comfort-gauge-signals-severe-discontent-for-fifth-week.html-http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-06/consumer-comfort-gauge-signals-severe-discontent-for-fifth-week.html]]</span>**)**

Consumer confidence in the U.S. was little changed last week, hovering
AND
to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. auto group.

We solve the economy – 5 reasons


FIRST, Megaregions —— Suburbanization makes US economic growth unsustainable – the US needs a new spatial shift towards the development of megaregions
**Florida, ~’10** ~~[7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, urban studies theorist, "The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery", http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future~~]
That brings me to a central issue that has been completely absent from the current
AND
their parts; they not only produce but consume, spurring further demand.


Status quo economic fixes fail and make collapse inevitable – only the development of new mega-regions can create growth, but infrastructure is key
**Florida, ~’11** ~~[7/5/11, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, urban studies theorist "How the Great Reset Has Already Changed America", http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/07/how-the-great-reset-has-already-changed-america/241200/~~]

Gradually, our great complexes of cities and suburbs are being knit into mega-
AND
underlying productivity of people and firms, and generates powerful economies of scale.
This new economic landscape and emerging way of life won~’t come together completely on their
AND
alternative transport, and more sustainable energy will help encourage this shift today.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>while individual Americans have already begun resetting their lives, our political and business leaders continue to look backwards, wasting precious time and resources on futile attempts to resuscitate the same dysfunctional system of banks, sprawl, and inefficient and energy-wasting ways of life that brought about the crisis in the first place.
According to Bureau of Labor Statistics projections, the US economy remains on track to
AND
only a third of what professional, technical and knowledge workers are paid.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we~’re serious about creating good, family-supporting jobs, </span>we have no choice but to upgrade those service jobs and turn them into adequate replacements for the blue-collar jobs that have been wiped out.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We did it 70 or 80 years ago when we transformed manufacturing jobs from low-paid, dangerous work into high-paid jobs; we must do it again.</span>
Henry Ford long ago said that we needed to pay factory workers better so they
AND
. Motivated workers are more productive; they~’re also more creative and innovative.
Easy credit, limited bailouts, and targeted stimulus have simply created the illusion of growth, without beginning to address the structural nature of the crisis<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And </span>much of what the Tea Partiers have been calling for — slashing taxes and cutting critical public investments — will only make things worse<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Our leaders just aren~’t getting it; their mental models are so determined by the old order that they can~’t acknowledge that it has already passed.</span>


High speed rail is the key – it~’s a shovel-ready project that accelerates the development of mega-regions and results in massive job growth
**Florida, ~’10** ~~[7/12/10, Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto, urban studies theorist, "The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery", urban studies theorist, http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future~~]

Infrastructure is key to powering spatial fixes. The railroads and streetcar, cable car
AND
economy to our physical development patterns—the landscape of the real economy.
That means high-speed rail, which is the only infrastructure fix that promises
AND
regions, it will allow them to function as truly integrated economic units.
Obama allocated %248 billion towards high speed rail in his 2009 budget. It~’s
AND
billion to build—which makes it look like something of a bargain.


SECOND, The Housing Market —— HSR development fosters new hubs for housing and jobs which catalyzes an economic recovery
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calthrope, ~’12</span><span class="medium-font"> ~~[Peter Calthrope, "Why I Won~’t Give Up on High Speed Rail", Planning. March 2012, Vol. 78 Issue 3, p50-50. 1p~~]</span>
Much more than a train ride is at stake. HSR would catalyze the next
AND
economic needs. This is an investment we cannot afford not to make.


THIRD, Traffic Congestion —— HSR is key to solve highway and airport congestion which hamstrings US business and encourages offshoring – the perception of the plan increases business confidence
McMahon, ~’11 ~~[3/29/11, Jeff McMahon, Contributor @ Forbes, "High-Speed Rail Critics Imperil Economic Growth, Bombardier President Says", [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/-http://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffmcmahon/2011/03/29/high-speed-rail-critics-imperil-economic-growth-bombardier-president-says/]]~~]
Opposition to high-speed rail imperils U.S. economic growth, the
AND
believe that sustainable mobility is at the heart of economic growth and development."


FOURTH, Competitiveness —— US is lagging in infrastructure development – high speed rail is key to bring back the US lead
Messina 12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[February 2012, Fred Messina is a Vice President in the Transportation business, with a focus on aviation infrastructure @ Booz Allen Hamilton, a technology and strategy consultant company, "Rethinking Mega-Region Air Travel", [[http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF-http://www.boozallen.com/media/file/Rethinking-Mega-Region-Air-Travel-tl.PDF]]~~]</span>

Airport-to-airport high-speed rail also is an example of how
AND
kind of innovative thinking that must be applied to our entire transportation system.


Economic recovery and boosting competitiveness are key to prevent the collapse of U.S. power—-that causes global great-power wars
**Khalilzad 11** Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Econom and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024
Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to
AND
, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.


Loss of Hegemony leads to Nuclear War
**Thayer 6** (professor of security studies @ Missouri State Bradley, The National Interest, "In Defense of Primacy", November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world~’s
AND
strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides.


FIFTH, Stimulus —- High speed rail has a multiplier effect on the economy – only the plan solves short and long term growth
**Biden 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Co-chairman Rosemont Seneca Partners LLC and Adviser to HNTB Corporation, member of the bar in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. He also was on Amtrak~’s board of directors, serving as vice chairman from 2007–09. ~~[Hunter Biden, summer 2010, "The Great Multiplier," InTransit, Pg. 3-4~~]</span>

The U.S. national high-speed rail program, the largest infrastructure
AND
high-speed rail is one of the keys to realizing that goal.


Austerity has ruined economies before and is ruining ours now – public spending is necessary for economic growth
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David</span> **Woolner ~’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(is a Senior Fellow and Hyde Park Resident Historian for the Roosevelt Institute, Roosevelt Institute, "Repeating Our Mistakes: The ~’Roosevelt Recession~’ and the Danger of Austerity," http://www.rooseveltinstitute.org/new-roosevelt/repeating-our-mistakes-roosevelt-recession-and-danger-austerity)</span>
In 1937, after five years of sustained economic growth and a steadily declining unemployment
AND
the federal government~’s role in the economy than in learning from the past.


Infrastructure spending can solve the economy with a multiplier effect of 2.8 – significantly larger than any other type of fiscal spending
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Xue</span> **Han ~’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Luxembourg Garden Visiting Scholar. She specializes in applying quantitative analysis to unique investment opportunities. Prior to joining Global Infrastructure, Ms. Han worked with Artio Global Investors providing industry and fundamental analyses on industries and companies for the High Yield Group. Prior to this, Ms. Han worked with KPMG China on audit projects for Sinopec~’s branches in Shanghai, Shandong and Heilongjiang. She has also worked as a project manager for Belmark Associates, a marketing research firm. Ms. Han holds a Bachelors degree in Mathematics and Economics from Beloit College, Global Infrastructure Asset Management, Feb 2012, [[http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html-http://www.globalinfrastructurellc.com/Leadership.html]])</span>
Besides its improving effects on productive capacity as the major reason for the infrastructure investment~’s
AND
for more spending, or at least less cuts, on infrastructure projects.


Economic decline makes war highly likely
Royal 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, "Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises," in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.


Independently, growth solves all your disads
**Silk 93** — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the New York Times, 1993 ("Dangers of Slow Growth," Foreign Affairs, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
Like the Great Depression, the current economic slump has fanned the fires of nationalist
AND
, a healthier environment, and more liberal and open economies and societies.


==Oil Dependence Advantage== 


Oil dependence in transportation guarantees peak oil and global resource wars—-only high-speed rail solves
**Perl** 11/19/**11** (Professor of Urban Studies and Political Science at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "How Green is High Speed Rail", CNN, [[http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html-http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/18/world/how-green-is-hsr/index.html]])

Any debate about the future of high-speed rail must consider where this mobility
AND
-speed rail to decrease transportation~’s oil consumption sooner, rather than later.


The plan resolves oil dependence quickly
USHSRA 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (US High Speed Rail Association, "ENERGY SECURITY", http://www.ushsr.com/benefits/energysecurity.html)</span>
A national high speed rail system ends our oil dependency quickly %26 permanently
Building an electrically-powered national high speed rail network across America is the single
AND
fuel we use daily in any practical, economical, or sustainable way.

Oil dependence shapes US foreign policy – ensures great power competition and US-China war
**Reynolds 10**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-(Lewis Reynolds 8-4-10 , American Surveyor, "Seven Dangerous (and Surprising) Side Effects of US Dependence on Foreign Oil", http://www.amerisurv.com/content/view/7708/)</span>
The entire U.S.-Middle East foreign policy has been structured around the
AND
both countries continue on their present courses without developing substantial alternative energy sources.


1. US-China war causes extinction
**Cheong**, Senior Writer @ the Strait Times, **2k** (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, "No one gains in a war over Taiwan," June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full
AND
should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.

2. Peak oil causes extinction.
**AFH 7-5-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2012-(The AFH Library is an educational website that posts articles about the world, especially those concerning the health of humans. [[http://www.alkalizeforhealth.net/Lpeakoil.htm-http://www.alkalizeforhealth.net/Lpeakoil.htm]])</span>
Global oil production is peaking. We are at the top of the "bell
AND
is to develop alternatives to oil now, before oil begins to decline.


3. Resource wars cause extinction
**Heinberg ~’4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, Senior Fellow of the Post Carbon Institute, faculty @ New College of California, "Book Excerpt: Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Port-Carbon World," http://www.energybulletin.net/node/2291) </span>

The notion that resource scarcity often leads to increased competition is certainly well founded.
AND
antibiotic-resistant "supergerms" cable of singling out specific ethnic groups.

==Plan text== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment for a high-speed passenger rail system.
==Solvency== 


Federal government decision making is key to successful HSR
Freemark, ~’10 ~~[April 19th, 2010, Yonah Freemark, "Is the U.S. Ready for a Sustained High-Speed Rail Funding Source?", [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/-http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/04/19/is-the-u-s-ready-for-a-sustained-high-speed-rail-funding-source/]]~~]
If, as has been evident recently, Washington is reluctant to identify corridors for
AND
distributed to projects that shouldn~’t be at the top of the priority list.


Models prove there will be significant ridership
**Cox 11 – (John, California Watch, "High-speed rail panel cites improvements in ridership model", http://californiawatch.org/dailyreport/high-speed-rail-panel-cites-improvements-ridership-model-12562)**

Assuming bullet train tickets are priced at 83 percent of air fare levels, more
AND
to more than 98 million once the full system is operating in 2035;


Investor confidence – it is key to determine whether HSR gets off the ground or not
GAO, ~’10 ~~[Government Accountability Office, June 2010, "High Speed Rail: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans"~~]

Industry stakeholders agreed that the time frame for building more intercity passenger rail capacity in
AND
the vast majority of funding would have to come from the public sources.


Megaregions span across state borders – means only the federal government has jurisdiction
**Ross and Woo 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Catherine L. Ross is Harry West Professor and director of the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology. Myungje Woo is a research scientist at the Center for Quality Growth and Regional Development at Georgia Institute of Technology ~~[Spring 2011, "Megaregions and Mobility," The Bridge, Vol. 41, No. 1, ISSN 0737-6278, page 27-28, [[http://www.nae.edu/File.aspx?id=43182-http://www.nae.edu/File.aspx?id=43182]]</span>

Globalization, the accumulation of production, commodity trading, and finance capital on a
AND
of new revenue streams to improve mobility in corridors critical to economic success.


Transportation bill thumps your disads
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alan </span>**Fram and** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Joan</span> **Lowy 6/29/12**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">writers for Huffington Post, "House, Senate Pass Transportation Bill, Extend Current Student Loan Rates", Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/29/transportation-bill-student-loans_n_1638116.html</span>

WASHINGTON — Congress emphatically approved legislation Friday preserving jobs on transportation projects from coast to
AND
highway and loan programs to continue until the full legislation reaches his desk.

States Have no experience
**GAO ~’10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government Accountability Office: Report to Congressional Committees – "HIGH SPEED RAIL: Learning From Service Start-ups, Prospects for Increased Industry Investment, and Federal Oversight Plans" – June – http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10625.pdf</span>

The activities that helped states initiate and improve their services will be important for states
AND
passenger rail services, as well as developing higher and high speed passenger rail
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Services</span>

They also lack technology oversight
**NCI ~’3** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The National Corridors Initiative – "FORTY-SEVEN ORGANIZATIONS SIGN AGREEMENT TO PROMOTE FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN MODERN NATIONWIDE PASSENGER RAIL SYSTEM" http://www.nationalcorridors.org/papers/midwestpaper.shtml</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

The final statement in the American Passenger Rail Agreement calls upon Congress to provide full
AND
of oversight and funding," said Joe Szabo of the United Transportation Union.





=Negative= 
email goldsteindavid96@gmail.com for cites

==Strategies== 

===Wake=== 

Round 2 vs. Caddo Magnet
T- vehicle
Cap K
Dada K (2NR)
Elections (obama good-china label)
Heg turn
Case

Round 3- vs Reservoir (ITS)
T-underlying (2NR)/FX T (2NR)
Elections (obama good-china label)
Lopez CP
Dedev
Case

Round 6- vs. Niles West (port security)
T- military (2NR)
Security
Elections (obama good-china label)
Lust DA
Lopez CP
Case

===Gtown=== 

Round 1 vs. Broad Run (inland waterway)
Buddhism K (2NR)
Food prices DA
Dedev
Elections DA
States CP
Case

Round 4 vs. Baltimore (Katrina aff w/o plan)
Framework (2NR)
Cap K
Buddhism K
T
Case

Round 5 vs. New Trier (TransCom)
Security K
T-investment
OMB CP (2NR)
Elections (obama good-china label)- 2NR
Prolif turn
Case

**Umich**

Round 1 vs. Port Security
Buddhism
Elections
Politics- fiscal cliff (2NR)
T-military
case (2NR)

Round 3 vs. EVs
Security
Elections
Politics- fiscal cliff (2NR)
OMB CP (2NR)
Dedev
Case

Round 5 vs. LNG
Buddhism (2NR)
OMB
Elections
Fiscal cliff
T-TI
Heg bad
Case

**Florida (11/10)**

Round 2 vs. HSR
Buddhism
Mao (2NR)
Dada
Elections
UQ CP
CP
ASPEC

Round 4 vs. Port dredging
Buddhism
Mao (2NR)
Dada
First Priority
CP
ASPEC

**Glenbrooks**


Round 2 vs. HSR
Fiscal cliff (2NR)
OMB CP (2NR)
Security K
Stim turn (inflation)
Heg turn (terror)
Ice Age DA

Round 4 vs. Title XI
Buddhism
T-direct (2NR)
PPP with data cooking NB
Fiscal cliff

Round 6 vs. mass transit (race advantage)
T-vehicles (2NR)
First Priority (2NR)
Fiscal cliff
OMB
Case