[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Torture Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ought is defined as a moral obligation</span>

http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/ought

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“To extend” is best defined as “to cause to reach (as in distance or scope)”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/extend</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Accused” means “charged with a crime, wrongdoing, or fault”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/accused</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, morality cannot permit the violation of any right because that would destroy the entire concept of rights. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, treating a person’s agency as able to be sacrificed for some overriding good allows for complete devaluation of human worth. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Michael Dillon, professor of politics and international relatoins at lancaster __[[#|university]]__, 99 political theory, april, vol 27 issue 3</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Quit the reverse...purchase on life."</span>


The standard is treating persons as ends in themselves.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Torture represents the total degradation of the soul of the victim—the greatest deont violation imaginable, worse than death.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Luban, David. “Unthinking the Ticking Bomb.” //Georgetown Law: The Scholarly Commons,// July 2008. [[http://scholarship.law.georgetown.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=fwps_papers]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">"Many writers have...of cruel treatment"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States will permanently cease all coercive interrogation tactics and strategies, in line with the Supreme Court’s ruling against actions which “shocks the conscience.” </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: top;">Sung, Chanterelle. “Torturing the Ticking Bomb Terrorist: An Analysis of Judicially Sanctioned Torture in the Context of Terrorism.” Boston College Third World Law Journal, Vol 23 Issue 1, 2003. http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1128&context=twlj</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Contrary to Dershowitz’s ...and Fourteenth Amendments."</span>


<span style="vertical-align: top;">Torture yields bogus intelligence and increases resistance to interrogators—empathetic interrogation solves. McCoy writes,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: top;">Alfred W. McCoy [Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, is the author most recently of “A Question of Torture: CIA Interrogation, from the Cold War to the War on Terror.”]. “The Myth of the Ticking Time Bomb.” //The Progressive//. Oct., 2006. [[http://progressive.org/mag_mccoy1006]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Number two: This ...lose your soul."</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; vertical-align: top;">Moreover, torture leads to progressive decline in police skill and an increased usage of torture as a first resort—Murad proves. Luban 2,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: top;">Luban, David. “Unthinking the Ticking Bomb.” //Georgetown Law: The Scholarly Commons,// July 2008. http://scholarship.law.georgetown.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=fwps_papers</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: top;">"In 1995, Phillipine...the life-saving information"</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt; vertical-align: top;">However, the use of torture supercharges resentment against the U.S. McCoy 2,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: top;">Alfred W. McCoy [Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, is the author most recently of “A Question of Torture: CIA Interrogation, from the Cold War to the War on Terror.”]. “The Myth of the Ticking Time Bomb.” //The Progressive//. Oct., 2006. http://progressive.org/mag_mccoy1006</span>
"Number three: Once...the war effort."

__[[#|Next]]__, two can hypothetically monger: torturing under pressure forces us to consider the limits of torturing innocents in order to preserve utility—only hardline deont stance against solves. Luban 3 concludes,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Luban, David. “Unthinking the Ticking Bomb.” //Georgetown Law: The Scholarly Commons,// July 2008. [[http://scholarship.law.georgetown.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1070&context=fwps_papers]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">"Once we set ...a resounding no"</span>


Finally, the sanctioning of torture undermines the legitimacy of the court system and results in higher torture rates. Chanterelle 2,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sung, Chanterelle. “Torturing the Ticking Bomb Terrorist: An Analysis of Judicially Sanctioned Torture in the Context of Terrorism.” __[[#|Boston College]]__ Third World Law Journal, Vol 23 Issue 1, 2003. [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1128&context=twlj]]</span>
"Given the significant...prevalence of torture."

==1AR Terror Talk Kritik== 
Framework: Before we engage in policy discussion, we must examine the media to guarantee undistorted and accurate information. Steuter and Wills 1,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steuter, Erin and Wills, Deborah. “Discourses in Dehumanization: Enemy Construction and Canadian Media Complicity in the Framing of the War on Terror.” //Global Media Journal//: Volume 2, Issue 2, pp. 7-24 (2009). http://www.gmj.uottawa.ca/0902/v2i2_steuter%20and%20wills.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The data collected...even global safety.</span>


And, representations must precede policy discussion. Crawford writes,

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Neta </span>**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Crawford</span>**<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> ,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200**2** p. 19-21</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coherent arguments </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">are ...is a meta-argument</span>__

Links: the Negative neglects key issues of state terror by ignoring politically motivated violence against the East, thereby reflecting the distorted lens of terrorist rhetoric. Kapitan 1,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kapitan, Tomis. “The Terrorism of ‘Terrorism’.” Terrorism and International Justice (Oxford, 2003), 47-66. http://www.niu.edu/phil/~kapitan/pdf/TheTerrorismofTerrorism.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A further point ...judgments give rise.</span>


The impact is misinformation, racism, and genocidal violence against the enemy-Other—empirics prove we are only a few steps from genocide. Steuter and Wills 2,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steuter, Erin and Wills, Deborah. “Discourses in Dehumanization: Enemy Construction and Canadian Media Complicity in the Framing of the War on Terror.” //Global Media Journal//: Volume 2, Issue 2, pp. 7-24 (2009). http://www.gmj.uottawa.ca/0902/v2i2_steuter%20and%20wills.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 4pt;">The metaphors that ...to and understood</span>

The alternative is rejecting the discourse of terrorism and blanket-terming a whole population. Rejection of this discourse encourages and initiates real political solutions. Kapitan 3
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kapitan, Tomis. “The Terrorism of ‘Terrorism’.” Terrorism and International Justice (Oxford, 2003), 47-66. http://www.niu.edu/phil/~kapitan/pdf/TheTerrorismofTerrorism.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">There are legitimate ...discourse of today</span>



==CLS Kritik== 
The law itself is indeterminate and the rationalizing criteria the affirmative uses to make their legal argument is an excuse to freeze existing social relations and systems of oppression. Gordon writes,
Robert W**.** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon</span>, Professor of Law at Stanford University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1987 </span>[“Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches To Law,” //Florida State University Law Review// (15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195), Summer, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Now a central...a Florida case.</span>**

Moreover, state granted rights serve to reinforce authoritarianism and demobilize radical movement potential. Gabel writes,
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Gabel 84 – Professor of Law, New College of California School of Law, San Francisco (Peter, May, “SYMPOSIUM: A CRITIQUE OF RIGHTS: The Phenomenology of Rights-Consciousness and the Pact of the Withdrawn Selves.”, 62 Tex. L. Rev. 1563, Lexis Law)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rights-victories can ...seems to depend.</span>__

The law and legal interpretation are unquestionably violent, ensuring the dominance of existing powerful interests and killing off alternative visions of justice. Henderson writes,
Lynne Henderson, Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law at Bloomington, 1991
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[“Authoritarianism and the Rule of Law,” //Indiana Law Journal// (66 Ind. L.J. 379), Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The lack of ...meaning and "law"</span>


Freeing us from the shackles of legal tradition is the only way for each of us to assume individual responsibility for the way we live our lives. Singer writes,

Joseph William Singer, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University, 1984

[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” //Yale Law Journal// (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">What shall we...that question ourselves.</span>


Debate should be a process through which young people learn the value of social criticism, not a game of fiat where our assumptions never go unquestioned. Giroux writes,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Giroux, Henry – 2011. “Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy.” Truthout http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042#2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">At the heart...and authoritarian regimes.</span>


Finally, we must look to discourse first since it precedes normative or political discussion. Bleiker writes,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bleiker, Roland. [professor of IR @ U of Queensland] “Discourse and Human Agency.” //Contemporary Political Theory//, 2003. </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">‘It is within ...thereby becomes improbable.</span>__

==Agamben Kritik== 
First, courts cede power to the sovereign and ignore the rule of law, especially in terrorist cases. Rogers –
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, a Lecturer in law at the School of Law and Justice at Southern Cross University, Lismore</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nicole, Law Text Culture, “Terrorist v Sovereign: Legal performances in a state of exception,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the United...threat of terrorism.</span>


Second, the affirmative grants due process rights to terrorists and then claims that they have ameliorated the harms of the state. However, in doing so, they are complicit with government power over life and death, rendering human beings homo sacer: constantly able to be sacrificed to the state. Hence, the state of exception has now become the rule and considered the norm – Agamben

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Agamben, 00 (Giorgio, translated by Vincenzo Binetti and Cesare Casarino, “Means without ends,” published in 2000, pg 7-8)</span>

Thus life originally...useless to us

The reaction to terrorism with the creation of the state of exception perpetuates a cycle of endless terrorism as supporters rally around their leader against the cruel oppressive Americans. Aretxaga **–**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Anthropology at the University of Texis at Austin, visiting professor at the University of Chicago, former professor at Harvard University [“Terror as Thrill: First Thoughts on the ‘War on Terrorism’ Anthropological Quarterly, Vol. 75, No. 1, Winter 2001, Published by The Feorge Washington University Institute for Ethnographic Research, pp. 139-150. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3318342]]</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">For much of ...a chilling terror</span>


The Alternative is to imagine Whatever Being--Any point of rejection of the sovereign state creates a non-state world made up of whatever life – that involves imagining a political body that is outside the sphere of sovereignty in that it defies traditional attempts to maintain a social identity. Caldwell –

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Louisville</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anne, “Bio-Sovereignty and the Emergence of Humanity,” Theory & Event, Volume 7, Issue 2, Project Muse)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can we imagine...whatever life appears.</span>

==Kato Kritik== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Predictive scenarios about nuclear war ignore the on-going nuclear genocide committed against the fourth world </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 10pt;">Kato 93</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear war </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">has ...time and space.</span>


The notion that nuclear war causes “extinction” ignores the on-going nuclear war conducting against indigenous nations <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kato 93</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Nuclear criticism finds...cloaked in pseudo-universality</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This erasure of history is the logic that legitimizes nuclear atrocities </span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 10pt;">Kato 93</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Let us recall ...on a daily basis</span>


The alternative is to reject their technosubjective approach to politics



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alt forges a link to the periphery that avoids the erasure of sub-state conflict</span><span class="cite" style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kato 93</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Masahide, Department of Political Science, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, Alternatives 18, 339-360) jl</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Frederic Jameson's proposed ...of the latter</span>


==Reasonable Doubt PIC== 
**Text – the United States federal government ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens, except the “Beyond a Reasonable Doubt” standard.**

**Contention One: Net Benefit – the counterplan solves the case but helps the war on terror.**

<span class="Underline">**1. Beyond a Reasonable Doubt will destroy the War on Terror by killing critical intelligence.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Wedgwood, 2004 – prof of International Law and Diplomacy at Johns Hopkins Univ.**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Ruth Combatants or Criminals? Foreign Affairs. May/June, Vol. 83 Issue 3, p126-129. 4p. Ebscohost]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The difficulties of...of future attacks.</span>


**2. The war on terror is essential to utilitarianism. Terrorism will cause global conflicts and is an existential threat to humanity. Helping the war on terror saves the most lives.**



**Sid-Ahmed 2004, leading member of the National Progressive Unionist Party of Egypt**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Mohamed Sid-Ahmed;; Accessed June 25, 2012; http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm; Written August 26, 2004; “Extinction!”)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The disappearance of ...all be losers.</span>


**3. Enhancing procedural rights doesn’t require granting All Due Process rights – I can solve the case without providing a right to proof Beyond a Reasonable Doubt**



**Schaffer, 2002 – J.D. candidate, Fordham University School of Law**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Amanda, Fordham Urban Law Journal Volume 30, Issue 4 “Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Terrorists: An In-Depth Analysis of the Government’s Right to Classify United States Citizens Suspected of Terrorism as Enemy Combatants and Try those Enemy Combatants by Military Commission” JSTOR]</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The process for...is under attack.</span>


==Supreme Court CP== 
**Text: The United States Supreme Court, in the next appropriate test case, should prohibit extraordinary rendition based on the 4th, 5th, and 8th Amendments to the Constitution.**

**The Counterplan solves the affirmative – there is nothing in his case that says that Congress must ban extraordinary renditions in order to improve US/European relations.**

**Observation One: Solvency –**

**A. Extraordinary renditions are done by the Executive Branch – they are carried out by the CIA and State Department, not by the Congress.**

**B. Courts have the authority to strike down Executive Branch actions – they have jurisdiction to protect detainees held by foreign nations under US Law.**

**The New Republic 2005** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(3/14, pg. 14 lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">But Abu Ali...detention and interrogation.</span>


**C. Plan cannot solve - Congress doesn’t have the jurisdiction to stop extraordinary renditions**



**The New Yorker, 2005**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Jane Mayer, 2/8 commondreams.org/headlines05/0208-13.htm)</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Yoo also argued ...had its referendum</span>__

**Observation Two – The Net Benefit is the Independent Judiciary.**

**1. Links – Court action proves judicial independence – if the Congress acts, this undermines the Judiciary’s independence**


**The permutation involves congressional oversight of court decisions, crushing judicial independence**

**Daniel O. Conkle, prof at University of Indiana, 1985**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (69 Minn. L. Rev. 587, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Because of the...possible constitutional disaster.</span>


**B. Other nations model American judicial independence**



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Honorable John L. </span>**__Nickels__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Justice, Illinois Supreme Court, 12-11-</span>**__98__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (online: http://www.dcba.org/brief/judpractice/1298.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">To begin, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">I...of the majority</span>__

**C. Modeling judicial independence is good – it is key to democracy which is necessary for Central Asian stability.**

**Richard A. __Boucher__, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, __4-26__-06**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (online: http://usinfo.state.gov/xarchives/display.html?p=washfile-english&y=2006&m=April&x=20060426153838ajesrom0.2461054&t=livefeeds/wf-latest.html)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> third </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">key ...willingness to reform.</span>__

==EU RELATIONS DAS== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Improved EU-US relations lead to creation of a Palestinian state</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gompert et al 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Vice President and Director of the National Security Research Division at RAND, Jerrold Green and Stephen Larrabee, RAND Directors, http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/rr.spring.99/atlantic.html )</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Arab-Israeli peace ...stable Palestenian state.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Extinction </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beres 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Louis Rene, Professor of Political Science and International Law at Purdue, PhD, The Jerusalem Post, October 16th)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A Palestinian state ...up as Armagedon</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">NEXT DA.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">EU-US relations cause middle east democratization</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sikorski 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Radek, Executive Director of the New Atlantic Initiative, Resident Scholar @ American Enterprise Institute, June 17th, http://wwwa.house.gov/international_relations/108/sik0617.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I believe that ...interest to agree.</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That kills US heg</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Faulkner 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Staff Writer, BA from University of Rochester, </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://dave.air0day.com/writings/war.html)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, it should ...the Middle East</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Heg decline causes nuclear great power conflict - empirical studies prove </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, Former US Ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and Former Director of Policy Planning @ the DOD, “The Economy and National Security,” February 8th, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=3]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The stakes are...in their regions.</span>









=November-December= 
==Obama Affirmative== 
The value is morality. Our obligation as debaters is to act in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. Shaw writes,
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The use of...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">our ‘‘national interest.</span>__

Since policy-makers cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable, public policy must look at the consequences first and act as a collective body. Goodin writes,
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of Political Theory, Public Policy, and Applied Ethics. </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy</span>__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. Cambridge University Press, 1995. p. 26-7]</span>


<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The great adventure...uniquely defensible public philosophy</span>


Thus, since the actor is the United States government, the issues discussed in the round should be sensitive to the utilitarian constraints of the actor. Moreover, because moral rules must apply to all people, any system of rights or value devolves into consequentialism. Pettit writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Philip Pettit. The Cost of Non-Consequentialism. Draft 5 Feb 1999. Google.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The upshot is...to be promoted.</span>


Thus, even if moral rules exist, the overall intention of the rule means actions collapse to utilitarianism in times of conflict. Thus, the standard is net benefits. The Plan: The U.S. government will implement the original Obamacare healthcare proposal with the public option and without the individual mandate. The plan is inherent: Obama conceded the public option for political reasons. The Wall Street Journal writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Wall Street Journal. “The Public Option Goes Over: The Big Fight Over ObamaCare is Far from Finished.” August 18, 2009. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204683204574356560765324476.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">So it looks...the installment plan.</span>

Thus, I defend a competing, government-run insurance provider which competes with existing, private insurance companies. Brady explains,
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Thomas Brady [MD, is Vice President, CRC Health, San Jose, CA and Director-at-Large on the CSAM Executive Council]. “Understanding the Universal Health Care Proposal.” //CSAM//, VOL. 36/NO. 2 • SUMMER 2009. http://www.csam-asam.org/sites/default/files/pdf/misc/CSAM_News_SUMMER09_web.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What is the...</span>__state of Massachusetts.__

The plan prevents economic collapse. First, we’re in a recession now. Philips writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Matthew Philips. “Economists Argue If U.S. Economy Recovering or Back in Recession.” Jul 19, 2012. Bloomberg.com. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/economists-argue-if-u-s-economy-recovering-or-back-in-recession.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">After a promising</span>__...__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">in June 2009.</span>

If continued, economic collapse is inevitable. The brink is now. Economic collapse means extinction—resource wars and nuclear wars come before all other impacts. Newsflavor writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Newsflavor 4/9 [Newsflavor is a network of journalists that cover current events, political coverage, world news, and opinions, April 9, 2009 “Will an Economic Collapse Kill You?” [[@http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It may or ...</span>__the 21st century.__

Extinction precedes all other values in importance. Tough writes,
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Allen Tough. Crucial Questions About the Future. University of America Press. 1991.</span>
__If our future...__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">civilization destroys itself.</span>

Second, the plan solves the harms in six ways. First, expansion of health care to new families spurs economic activity for two reasons. Gruber writes,
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jonathan Gruber [Professor of Economics at MIT. He was a technical consultant to the Obama Administration during the development of the ACA.] “Will the Affordable Care Act Kill Jobs?” //The New Republic//. July 9, 2012. http://www.tnr.com/blog/plank/104791/gruber-care-act-job-killing# </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">By now, most...</span>__and more hiring.__


Second, adding a public option solves for jacked up prices on insurance since costs are deflected to the government. Naroff writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Joel Naroff. “Obamacare and economy: Perfect together?” //The Philadelphia Inquirer//. October 8, 2012. http://articles.philly.com/2012-10-08/business/34306809_1_health-insurance-health-insurance-bare-bones-insurance</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While the political</span>__...__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">we are on.</span>


Third, subsidies for the streamlining of healthcare decrease costs and raise effectiveness of hospital visits. Barnes writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Steve Barnes. “Achieving Efficiency and Quality Under ACA.” July 26, 2012. Core Tech Revolution. http://www.coretechrevolution.com/latest-news/141-achieving-efficiency-and-quality-under-aca</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A major issue...</span>__electronic health records.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">2</span>


Fourth, Obamacare expands preventative medicine and thereby increases long term health and savings. The Department of Health and Human Services writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. “Affordable Care Act: Laying the Foundation for Prevention.” HealthReform.gov. http://www.healthreform.gov/newsroom/acaprevention.html</span>

__Chronic diseases__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – such </span>__health__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and wellness.</span>


Fifth, the ACA enables greater social mobility and prevents “job lock” stagnation of the economy. Gruber 2 writes,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jonathan Gruber [Professor of Economics at MIT. He was a technical consultant to the Obama Administration during the development of the ACA.] “Will the Affordable Care Act Kill Jobs?” //The New Republic//. July 9, 2012. http://www.tnr.com/blog/plank/104791/gruber-care-act-job-killing# </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Opponents of the...</span>__productive__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and happiest.</span>


Sixth, Obamacare’s provisions for health centers means more jobs and facilities, stimulating the economy. Oshima explains,

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Emily Oshima [Research Associate and Policy Analyst for Health Policy at the Center for American Progress.] “Update: How Obamacare Is Benefiting Americans.” July 12, 2012. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/healthcare/news/2012/07/12/11843/update-how-obamacare-is-benefiting-americans/</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The health law...community health centers nationwide.</span>

==Biopower Kritik== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1: The role of the ballot</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The judge should assume the position of a specific intellectual- this requires that you be skeptical of universal normative claims like the resolution and that you interrogate the genealogical constructions of morality present in the AC. Owen writes</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Owen ’94</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (David Owen, Professor of Social and Political Philosophy @ University of Southampton Morality and Modernity, 1994, pp 208-210; swp)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The ‘universal’ intellectual,...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">who we are.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This has 3 implications </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1. Epistemology- universal normative statements like the resolution should be viewed with suspicion. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2. Education- the negative role of the ballot better explains the social location of the judge. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3. Genealogy - to make sense the AC claims require a certain understanding of the historical evolution of western subjectivity and its relation to medicine. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2: Universal healthcare is biopolitical</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Biopower is exercised at the level of population- it's the idea that the allegedly liberal democratic government maintains power by producing a population, by making live, instead of exercising juridical power- by making die. Universal health care systems are a major biopolitical advance- they unite the population towards the collective advancement of sovereign power. Elbe write</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stefan Elbe, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK , //Aids Security Biopolitics// International Relations 2005 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Why does it...as a whole.47</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3: The alternative- debate is an intellectual space. Adopting the role of a specific intellectual requires interrogating the biopolitical practices in the AC. Biopower doesn't prove universal healthcare is necessarily bad, but it requires us to investigate the possibility that it may be DANGEROUS. This is mutually exclusive with endorsing the idea that it is an obligation. Failure to question sovereign power risks extinction. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bernauer</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">90</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (James is a philosophy professor, Boston College, “Michel Foucault’s Force Of Flight: Toward An Ethics Of Thought” 1990. 1990 pp. 141-2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">This capacity of...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">philosophical and historical understanding.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The AC can't outweigh or preclude the critique- their knowledge claims can't be divorced from the system of modernity that produced them. Only minute examination of biopolitical structures can reveal that what the affirmative would have you believe is objective fact is in fact a constructed regime of truth. Chambon writes,</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Chambon 1999 (Adrienne, director of Ph. D program at U Toronto, Ph. D in Social Work from U Chicago, Columbia University Press New York , Reading Foucault for Social Work, “Foucault’s Approach,” p. 56-8)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">By examining practices...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">as distinct "discursive formations</span>


=January-February= 
==Race Aff== 
The New Jim Crow is neoliberalism and race-neutrality, a modern colorblindness that ignores, and thereby perpetuates, racial inequality. This is especially true of the U.S.J.S. where punitive justice emerged as a byproduct of the neoliberal apparatus to abolish racialized social insecurity. Hutchinson writes,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hutchinson, Phillip A. “The Political Economy of Colorblindness: Neoliberalism and the Reproductions of Racial Inequality in the United States.” George Mason University, 2010. http://digilib.gmu.edu/dspace/bitstream/1920/6035/1/PHutchison%20dissertation.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">These comments help ...and symbolic order</span>


Vesla M. Weaver crunches the numbers:

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weaver, Vesla M. “Unhappy Harmony: Accounting for Black Mass Incarceration in a Post-Racial America.” August, 2010. U of Virgina. http://veslaweaver.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/weaver2010chapter.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">On any given ...life without parole</span>


These high incarceration rates for African Americans come to a head in myriad impacts. First, mass incarceration silences African-Americans and contributes to further subjugation by perpetuating the belief that blacks are unworthy of rights. Roberts,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dorothy E. Roberts [Kirkland & Ellis Professor, Northwestern University School of Law]. CONSTRUCTING A CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM FREE OF RACIAL BIAS: AN ABOLITIONIST FRAMEWORK. 2008.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">History, social science...criminal justice policy</span>


Second, racism creates a feedback loop that produces intergenerational crime, securing the New Jim Crow for years to come. Weaver 2,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weaver, Vesla M. “Unhappy Harmony: Accounting for Black Mass Incarceration in a Post-Racial America.” August, 2010. U of Virgina. http://veslaweaver.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/weaver2010chapter.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The first mechanism...than in college</span>

Third, the discrimination is intolerable itself: rejection of racism is the ethical obligation of a society—prevents acceptance of injustice. Memmi writes,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Memmi, Albert. [prof of sociology @ U of Paris] //Racism//. Trans. Steve Martinot. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota Press, 2000. </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against...stakes are </span>__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__irresistible__</span>


Eliminating retributive practices solves for racial inequality in the __[[#|criminal justice]]__ system—only rehabilitation and social integration can uniquely solve for the racism inherent in the system. Roberts 2,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dorothy E. Roberts [Kirkland & Ellis Professor, Northwestern University School of Law]. CONSTRUCTING A CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM FREE OF RACIAL BIAS: AN ABOLITIONIST FRAMEWORK. 2008.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Mass imprisonment, capital ...free of racial bias</span>


And, before policy making can take place, critical discussion must first persist—the ballot doesn’t evaluate policy, but instead examines the dialogue engaging race relations. This is the only way to ensure that we don’t take one step forward and two steps back, particularly in the context of the New Jim Crow. Michelle Alexander concludes,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alexander, Michelle. //The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness//. New York: The New Press, 2010. Print.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">With the benefit...with nervous laughter.</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Vocational Training AFf </span>= 

Rando Util justifications

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, Rehab includes vocational training</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tony </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Francis</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, MD, Orthopaedic Surgery, 10-1</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://boards.medscape.com/forums?128@956.7VWQazErknU@.2a0e017c!comment=1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rehabilitation is another utilitarian rationale for punishment. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The goal of rehabilitation</span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Second, Vocational Training reduces recidivism </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Justice Center Council of State Governments </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.reentrypolicy.org/Report/PartII/ChapterII-B/PolicyStatement15/ResearchHighlight15-3]] No Date.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Despite the longevity of prison educational and vocational programs within the corrections</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Recidivism has tremendous social harms. Wilson writes. </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The effects of recidivism in the United States fall into four general categories. First,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __recidivism imposes tremendous public safety costs on American__ </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Third, Vocational training prepares students for the job market and boosts competitiveness.</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">International Labor Organization 2008</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> http://www.ilo.org/global/publications/ilo-bookstore/order-online/books/WCMS_095900/lang--en/index.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The connection between skill development and productivity growth is an issue constantly under discussion when analysing competitiveness</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fourth, Vocational training is key to US competitiveness</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Steve </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gunderson,</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> former GOP Congressman from Wisconsin, 7-19-</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">12</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.realclearpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/19/training_workers_is_critical_to_americas_competitiveness_218.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">America is no longer a nation separated by two oceans, which is able to grow</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fifth, Economic primacy prevents all conflict escalation </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Freidberg & Schonfeld, 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> --- *Professor of Politics and IR at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, AND **senior editor of Commentary and a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton (10/21/2008, Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, is</span>__



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sixth, Competitiveness prevents great power nuclear war. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ’11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Zalmay</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Khalilzad</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “ The Economy and National Security”, 2-8-11, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid</span>







==Rehab K== 
Justice systems that emphasize __[[#|rehabilitation]]__ of criminal offenders seeks to maintain control over “at-risk” populations. In casting decisions to commit crimes as symptoms, the government rejects their personhood by denying their capacity for self-creation and framing deviant behavior as the result of inevitable pathological processes. Morris writes.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Herbert Morris. “On Guilt and Innocence: essays in legal philosophy and moral psychology.” 1976. PAGE 41</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Apart from those ...of a compliment</span>


Therefore, within a rehabilitative system, a person’s value is contingent on the absence of some disruptive disorder as opposed to their own efforts to perfect themselves. This interpretation opens the door for biopolitical state intervention because human value can only exists through the removal of that disruptive force. Second, rehabilitative systems are particularly dangerous because they frame justifications for actions that are deemed deviant as further symptoms of a disorder. Morris writes.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Herbert Morris. “On Guilt and Innocence: essays in legal philosophy and moral psychology.” 1976. PAGE 43.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, perhaps most ...form of respect</span>


Therefore, rehab systems fail to respect autonomous decisions because they are framed as symptoms of a diseased mind. As such, the subject’s mind becomes open to intervention as well. Third, justifying any type of different punishment establishes distinctions between the self and the other which functions to exclude them from consideration as human. Moore writes.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moore, Michael S. "The moral worth of retribution." //Responsibility, Character, and the Emotions: New Essays in Moral Psychology//. Ed. Ferdinand Schoeman. pg. 215-216</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Such discrimination is...appear revoltingly noncomprehensible</span>


This biopolitical logic enables the abandonment and annihilation of those deemed unworthy of participation in political or moral life. The necessity of constantly producing a new outsider group against which to mobilize one’s own population and the ability to disqualify the existence of those deemed “diseased” causes violence for its own sake and threatens all with apocalypse. Mitchell Dean writes,

Dean, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, 2001 [Mitchell, //States of Imagination//, Ed. Hansen and Stepputat, p.53-56]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Consider again the ...have become vital.</span>


This impact precedes all others because prior to evaluating specific ethical rules you must first ensure that all moral agents are considered. The ability to exclude individuals from moral calculations undermines the foundations of morality because obligations can be disregarded. Thus the alternative: Debate rounds cannot change the world, however you, as a judge, should focus on what gives your ballot value. Relying on assumptions of domination for your decision calculus is morally reprehensible and deprives your ballot of all meaning. Vote Neg to refuse this model and endorse a critical self-reflective ethic instead. Harzenski writes,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">PROFESSOR OF LAW AT TEMPLE LAW SCHOOL. [SHARON, POST-COLONIAL STUDIES: TERRORISM, A HISTORY, STAGE TWO, TEMPLE INTERNATIONAL AND COMPARATIVE LAW JOURNAL, FALL, 2003, 17 TEMP. INT'L & COMP. L.J. 351,]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault tells...been speaking about</span>


Thus, while the discourse of individuals may not be able to restructure the world, an individual is always capable of transforming their self, which produces an obligation to reject justifying tyrannical uses of power. The ballot as a designation of who won the debate round is only relevant in the round. However, using the ballot as a rejection of justified domination over others gives your ballot meaning by enabling you as the judge to use it as a declaration of the way in which you view yourself and others. Thus, the role of the ballot is engaging in constant, active criticism. Debate should be a process through which young people learn the value of social criticism, not a game of fiat where our assumptions never go unquestioned. Giroux writes,

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Giroux, Henry – 2011. “Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy.” Truthout http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042#2</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">At the heart...and authoritarian regimes</span>__

Finally, we must look to discourse first since it precedes normative or political discussion. Bleiker writes,
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bleiker, Roland. [professor of IR @ U of Queensland] “Discourse and Human Agency.” //Contemporary Political Theory//, 2003. </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">‘It is within ...thereby becomes improbable.</span>__


=DP DA= 

=Deterrence 1NC= 


**I Negate- the negative will defend the use of the death penalty. This is the most fair and predictable for the following reasons**

**1. Clash- the death penalty is the clearest instance of rehabilitation vs retribution since it has ZERO rehabilitative function- all affirmative policy or philosophical offense about rehabilitation should apply to the disad**

**2. Predictability- the death penalty is the most frequently cited use of retributive justice, the affirmative should be prepared to debate it if they have researched the topic**

**3. Framers intent- the death penalty is a symbolic gesture which makes it a crucial focal point for debating the "values" of the criminal justice system- since it is used infrequently its effects are based on the signal it sends to society and the world at large.**

**My contention is the death penalty is key to deterrence** 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. The death penalty sends an international signal about our moral integrity as a nation- failure to broadcast a strong statement about our committments undermines deterrence </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tung Yin</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> [Associate Professor, University of Iowa College of Law; J.D., 1995, University of California, Berkeley (Boalt Hall); M.J., 1992, University of California, Berkeley; B.S., 1988, California Institute of Technology]. Disposable Deontology: The Death Penalty and Nuclear Deterrence. Alabama Law Review. Lexus Nexis. 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Certainly, governments are entitled to be inconsistent, and, in any event, no one can force them to be consistent</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">But</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> inconsistent behavio</span>__


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Failure to send a credible international signal will collapse nuclear deterrence- other countries will be likely to call our bluff. Emphasizing the retributive aspects of justice is crucial to the strength of deterrence. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tung Yin</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> [Associate Professor, University of Iowa College of Law; J.D., 1995, University of California, Berkeley (Boalt Hall); M.J., 1992, University of California, Berkeley; B.S., 1988, California Institute of Technology]. Disposable Deontology: The Death Penalty and Nuclear Deterrence. Alabama Law Review. Lexus Nexis. 2003</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">more internally consistent</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> __position that the[y]__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">French and British </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">might</span>__


**3. Nuclear deterrence is key to global stability and preventing multiple threats of CBW and EMP use that kills hundreds of millions and collapse the US economy.**
Mark **Schneider**, July **2008**. Senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D in history at the University of Southern California and JD from George Washington University, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control

**4. Our impact outweighs and turns the case ---**

**a. Magnitude --- many rogue leaders are willing and able to use CBWs that spread rapidly and kill hundreds of millions in hours alone** 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Clifford </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Singer</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Spring </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. Director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign. “Will Mankind Survive the Millennium?” The Bulletin of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 13.1, http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/research/S&Ps/2001-Sp/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent years the fear of the apocalypse (or religious hope for it) has been in part a child of the Cold War, but its seeds in Western culture go back to the Black Death and earlier. Recent polls suggest that the majority in the United</span>

**Also --- nuclear deterrence contains the escalation of any conflict.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">C. Paul </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Robinson</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, 3/22/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2001</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command. “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm.</span>

Let me then state my most important conclusion directly: I believe __nuclear weapons__

**b. Probability --- biological weapons cannot be controlled once they are released making escalation inevitable, [nuclear war won’t escalate because the initial use will force both sides to resolve the conflict.]**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span>**Quinlan**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Under-Secretary of State for Defense. Thinking about Nuclear Weapons; p. 31.</span>

There are good reasons for fearing escalation: the confusion of war, its stresses, anger,


=CAP K= 



<span class="Underline">**A. The Criminal Justice System entrenches capitalism – it maintains class domination by focusing on Order – this is the repressive function of Capitalism**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Garside, 2008 - Director Centre for Crime and Justice Studies**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Richard The purpose of the criminal justice system</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;">http://www.crimeandjustice.org.uk/opus548.html This article was published in the March 2008 issue of the Barrister Magazine.</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Criminal justice practices, they go on to note, `are inherently coercive'</span>

**B. The capitalist Mindset is founded on an epistemology of destruction – the assumptions behind capitalism make war, genocide and environmental destruction possible**

**Everest 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Larry; correspondent for Revolution newspaper; 5/24/12; “WAR AND GLOBAL CAPITALISM: “Money for Jobs Not for War”: American Chauvinism and Reformist Illusions” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=31024)//RSW</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">“Money for Jobs and Education! Jobs and Education, Not War and Occupation!”</span>


<span class="Underline">**C. The Alternative is to refer to it as the “Criminal Injustice System” - The Term “Justice” system is misleading – pointing out the Injustice of the criminal system is key to opening a dialogue on social injustices.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Daly, 2011 - Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice Griffith University,**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Kathleen Aims of the Criminal Justice System 22 April 2011 http://www.griffith.edu.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0010/300988/Chapter-17,-Aims-of-Criminal-Justice-updated-22-April-11-for-webposting pdf.</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Justice or Injustice? [17.20] </span><span class="Underline">Many dispute the phrase criminal justice system</span>

**D. We must look to discourse first since it precedes normative or political discussion.** 

**Bleiker, 2003 - professor of IR @ U of Queensland**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Roland. “Discourse and Human Agency.” //Contemporary Political Theory//, </span>

__‘It is within discourse,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">’ one of Foucault’s much rehearsed passages (1976, 133) notes, </span>__‘that power and knowledge articulate each other.’__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">The work of the French historian and philosopher epitomizes what is at stake in questions of discourse and agency. For Foucault, </span>__discourses__
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]