[[toc]]
Hey, I might also be reading stuff that is disclosed on Harker SP's page so check there too. We're a strong proponent of disclosure, so if you think we've read something that's not on here feel free to email me at pranav.harker@gmail.com

=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===In The Stocks AC=== 

Lectric Law Library provides the definition for due process rights.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.lectlaw.com/def/d080.htm]], Lectric Law Library, A Library for and By The Top Legal Scholars</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The standard must be **Maximizing Human Welfare** because that's the only way governments can act and we must evaluate the ends of our action in order to determine whether or not they are moral.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Harsh treatment of terrorism at Abu Gharib and Guantanamo has increased terrorism. Alexander explains,</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Alexander, Matthew. "I'm Still Tortured by What I Saw in Iraq." The Washington Post. November 2008. [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/11/28/AR2008112802242.html]].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">I learned in ... soldiers as Americans</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2: Giving the government arbitrary control over who deserves due process rights allows them to side-step the law whenever they want, taking the first step to a totalitarian regime. Douglass explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">William O. Douglass, Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, 1968 (TERRY v. OHIO, 392 U.S. 1 www.findlaw.com, Access date: Dec. 17, 2002, p. np..</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">To give the .... a new regime</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 3: Not giving non-citizens due process rights leads to a slippery slope in which the government doesn't guarantee rights to anyone. Guiora explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">DUE PROCESS AND COUNTERTERRORISM Emory International Law Review, Vol. 26, 2012 (Israeli-American professor of law at The S. J. Quinney College of Law).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Due process is .... rule of law</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 4: If the US doesn't give non-citizens due process rights, our allies will see us as setting double standards and won't help us. Gutfield explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Rose Gutfield, Fall 2003 edition. "THE US CONSTITUTION AND THE RIGHTS OF NON-CITIZENS FORD FOUNDATION REPORT". http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/fr/1005311/posts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Putting aside the .... terrorists' recruitment propaganda</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 5: Without basic protections, other countries won't aid us in the war on terror. Mora explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">Mora, Alberto J. Former U.S. Navy General Counsel, "Statement of Alberto J. Mora." Senate Committee on Armed Services Hearing on the Treatment of Detainees in U.S. Custody. June 17th, 2008 http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2008/June/Mora%2006-17-08.pdf.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Because the international ... decreased sharply abroad</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 6: Military action in other nations undermines the rule of law and thus affects our counterterrorism efforts. Jaggar writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jaggar, Alison (University of Colorado Professor of Philosophy and Women and Gender Studies). "Responding to the Evil of Terrorism." Hypatia, 2003</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Military action against .... terrorist in itself</span>

===Omni-Will AC=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Moral theories are unjustifiable to others so external principles are unable to guide our action. MacIntyre explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alisdair MacIntyre, After Virtue (Don't have a pdf sorry) 1981, Two Further Revisions</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">An agent can ... by adopting them</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, the only thing that can motivate morality is Practical Reason. Korsgaard explains, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sources of Normativity, Christine Korsgaard, The Tanner Lectures, November 16 and 17, 1992</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">But the human .... or go forward.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, because humans are the ultimate source of reason, we cannot violate their human dignity. Korsgaard 2 continues, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Sources of Normativity, Christine Korsgaard, The Tanner Lectures, November 16 and 17, 1992</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This question brings .... to have it?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Furthermore, the inviolability of people is the only way to value rationality. Kamn explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Intricate Ethics: Rights, Responsibilities, and Permissible Harms, F. M. Kamn, 2007</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The fact that ... as an individual.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, government binds together and legitimizes the will of the individual. Ripstein writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Force and Freedom, Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy, Arthur Ripstein, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kant's example of ... to guide conduct</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend there is no justification to deny non-citizens accused of terrorism rights. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Cross-apply Korsgaard 2 that rights must be universizable and Kamn that we must prevent the violation of humans in general</span>

===Back to the Future AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Part A: There are people being detained in Guantanamo and no one cares. The Huffington Post explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John W. Whitehad, Guantanamo Bay: The Model for An American Police State, 9/25/12,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/john-w-whitehead/guantanamo-bay-police-state_b_1910281.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">For most Americans ... from the courts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, they are held indefinitely without due process rights. The Huffington Post continues,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">John W. Whitehad, Guantanamo Bay: The Model for An American Police State, 9/25/12,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/john-w-whitehead/guantanamo-bay-police-state_b_1910281.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Despite this ruling, ... the detention camp.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part B: Guantanamo exists outside the law and allow a few select government officials to decide who doesn’t deserve even the most basic human rights. The lack of human rights allows the most insidious forms of sovereignty. Butler explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Judith Butler, Precarious Life, [[https://moodle.hampshire.edu/pluginfile.php/45650/mod_resource/content/0/Butler_Indef.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is, of ... midst of governmentality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, denying individuals at Guantanmo due process allows the power of the few to determine the lives of many. And, holding prisoners at Guantanamo Bay makes their lives “unlivable” and places them outside the spectrum of humans. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Judith Butler, Precarious Life, [[https://moodle.hampshire.edu/pluginfile.php/45650/mod_resource/content/0/Butler_Indef.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Indefinite Detention" considers ... democratic political life.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The policies at Guantanamo Bay and this instance of the War on Terror places terrorists outside our society and creates a violent ontology that justifies the eradication of our being and causes infinite war. Butler continues,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Judith Butler, Precarious Life, [[https://moodle.hampshire.edu/pluginfile.php/45650/mod_resource/content/0/Butler_Indef.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I am referring ... to those children?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, questions of ontology come prior to all others. Dillon explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Dillon, Prof of Politics- University of Lancaster, 99 [Michael, Moral Spaces p. 97-98]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Heirs to all ... of decision making.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, Part C is the plan text: The United States Government will transfer the charged terrorists in Guantanamo Bay to Federal Courts. Gude explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ken Gude, Getting Back on Track Zero to Close Guantanamo, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/civil-liberties/report/2009/11/10/6988/getting-back-on-track-to-close-guantanamo/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Prosecute 9/11 conspirators ... measure of legitimacy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Part D: In the context of Guantanamo, sovereignty must be torqued against itself in order to limit state power to control our very biological life. Michaelsen and Shershow explain,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Michaelsen and Shershow, Co-Editor of the Centennial Review and Associate Professor of English at Miami University 2004, Beyond and Before the Law at Guantanamo, Peace Review.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The act of ... he is us.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, trying the individual in court removes the excessive power of the state. The ACLU explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ACLU, 4/27/10, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.aclu.org/national-security/discredited-military-commissions-resume-despite-persistent-flaws</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If Khadr's trial ... world as illegitimate.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus, I affirm.</span>

===Going for Gold AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Survival is the necessary pre-condition to the evaluation of anything because of the trace of life. Hagguland explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Martin Hagglund, a Swedish philosopher, literary theorist, and scholar of modernist literature, currently a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, Radical Atheism: Derrida and the Time of Life, 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In the preceding ... the first place</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, the government's survival requires its citizens. Kennan explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Morality and Foreign Policy, George F. Kennan, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Let me explain: ... basis of them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the standard is **Maximizing the Expected Well-Being for Citizens**</span>

====<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">International Co-operation Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Not giving terrorists due process rights destroys our soft power. Wagner explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Soft Power and International Public Opinion: US Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War,” Coleman Wagner, University of North Texas. 2009. [[http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">President Bush also ... war on terrorism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, soft power is key to coalition building and thus solving for terrorism. Steinberg explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Steinberg, ‘8 [James Steinberg, Dean of the Lyndon Johnson School of Public Affairs at Texas Austin, “Real Leaders Do Soft Power: Learning the Lessons of Iraq,” Washington Quarterly, Spring, 2008]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">To secure international ... terrorist cells globally</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Iraqi Instability Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stability is at an all time low. Schmidtt explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Michael S. Schmidt, January 22, 2012, Rising Strife <span style="line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">Threatens</span> Tenuous Iraqi Stability</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Violence and political ... of American troops.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And, targeted killings are the source - once we stop, the situation will revert to normal. Carvin explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Trouble with Targeted Killing, Stephanie Carvin, Lecturer in International Relations Royal Holloway, University of London , Security Studies Fall 2012.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">America's involvement with ... from this opportunity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, Iraqi stability spills over and causes conflict. The Age explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Age 9/24/2007 “Tempers must remain cool as the Middle East heats up”, http://www.theage.com.au/news/editorial/tempers-must-remain-cool-as-the-middle-east-heats-up/2007/09/23/1190486129857.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The torturous road ... any military society</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And instability causes nuke war. Barrows explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Burrows – Director of the National Intelligence Council 9 (Matthew J, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” The Washington Quarterly)MFR</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The most dangerous ... escalating crises potentially</span>

====<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Borders Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Borders are the root cause of all violence - they are the cause for every conceptualization of violence on or against the states. Frankel explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">E.G. Frankel, Challenging American Leaders (google book)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In some parts .... bounty of conflict.</span>


===Australian Kangaroo Trapper AC=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Justice Wright defines "accused" as, </span>

<span style="color: #2e3338; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Justice Wright</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: #2e3338; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">United States v. Mills, 641 F. 2d 785 - Court of Appeals, 9th Circuit 1981</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Sixth Amendment ... 92 S Ct at 463</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">I value Morality. Morality is based on survival: it is the unconditional condition for all other values. Hagguland explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Martin Hagglund, a Swedish philosopher, literary theorist, and scholar of modernist literature, currently a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, Radical Atheism: Derrida and the Time of Life, 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In the <span style="line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">preceding</span> ... the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And, government's survival, as a human construct, is dependent on its people. Kennan explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Morality and Foreign Policy, George F. Kennan, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Let me explain ... basis of them.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Furthermore, prefer consequentialism because ought implies can. For morality to be action guiding, it must be possible for me to take an action I am obligated to do. And, government's can only use <span style="line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">consequentaimlism</span>. Woller explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Gary Woller [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, virtually all ... advantage of society.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the plan text: The United States Congress will abolish the use of Extraordinary Rendition against non-citizens accused of terrorism. The UPI explains the plan text,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">UPI,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> March. 6, 2007</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2007/03/06/Congress-urged-to-ban-renditions/UPI-86961173206784/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The US Congress ... in a statement.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part A: Topicality. The rendition program violates the 5th and 8th amendments. The ACLU explains,</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ACLU, March 30, 2006, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ACLU Urges United Nations to Investigate CIA's "Extraordinary Rendition" Policy, [[http://www.aclu.org/human-rights/aclu-urges-united-nations-investigate-cias-extraordinary-rendition-policy]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In its letter ... out abusive interrogation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Furthermore, it violates the 4th amendment. Lalmani explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">APNA G. LALMALANI, Juris Doctor candidate, American University, Washington College of Law, 2006; Masters candidate, School of International Service, Washington, D.C.; Senior Research Associate with the Public International Law & Policy Group in Washington, D.C, .Extraordinary Rendition Meets the U.S. Citizen: United States’ Responsibility Under the Fourth Amendment, VOLUME 5 FALL 2005 NUMBER 1, CONNECTICUT PUBLIC INTEREST LAW JOURNAL </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Under established Fourth ... and personal security.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part B: Inherency. Extraordinary rendition is a policy now. Murray explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Mark J. Murray, 2011, Mark J. Murray is an associate at a Fortune 500 management and technology consulting firm, where he supports senior Department of Defense (DoD) leaders in the countering weapons of mass destruction domain, Extraordinary Rendition and U.S. Counterterrorism Policy, Journal of Strategic Security, Volume 4 Issue 3 2011, pp. 15-28</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Rendition is defined ... filed against them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">And, it's used to send the accused to Europe. Egan explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suzanne Egan, Research Paper No. 05/2012 , UCD Working Papers in Law, Criminology & Socio-Legal Studies, University College Dublin, EXTRAORDINARY RENDITION AND THE QUEST FOR ACCOUNTABILITY IN EUROPE</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In February 2006 ... Council of Europe.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US - Euro Relations</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Euro Relations is at an all-time low now. The EU has no hope in the US. Tribune explains, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Tribune, September 7, 2012, [[http://tribune.com.pk/story/432975/europe-cool-on-obama-after-high-hopes-fade/|Europe cool on Obama after high hopes fade]], [[http://tribune.com.pk/story/432975/europe-cool-on-obama-after-high-hopes-fade/]]</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">Analysts say exceptions ... global economic policy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">And, Extraordinary Renditions destroy EU-US relations. Smith writes,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ms. Julianne Smith, Director And Senior Fellow, Europe Program, Center For Strategic And International Studies, April 17, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition In U.S.Counterterrorism Policy: The Impact On Transatlantic Relations Joint Hearing Before The Subcommittee On International Organizations, Human Rights, And Oversight And The Subcommittee On Europe Of The Committee On Foreign Affairs House Of Representatives One Hundred Tenth Congress First Session, Serial No. 110–28, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2007_hr/rendition.pdf|Http://Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2007_Hr/Rendition.Pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">When it was ... U.S. national security.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Furthermore, policy outcry in Europe over rendition practices harms our image. Smith 2 explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ms. Julianne Smith, Director And Senior Fellow, Europe Program, Center For Strategic And International Studies, April 17, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition In U.S.Counterterrorism Policy: The Impact On Transatlantic Relations Joint Hearing Before The Subcommittee On International Organizations, Human Rights, And Oversight And The Subcommittee On Europe Of The Committee On Foreign Affairs House Of Representatives One Hundred Tenth Congress First Session, Serial No. 110–28, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2007_hr/rendition.pdf|Http://Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2007_Hr/Rendition.Pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Transatlantic tensions over ... war on terror.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">EU-US relations are the defining bilateral relationship for the global security - solves every impact of the world of today. Haas explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Haas ‘2 Richard Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, June 1, 2002, p. http://www.state.gov/s/p/rem/10643.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In the United ... widely as possible.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">EU Stability</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">European Unity is on the rocks now - no support. The PEW Research Center writes, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Pew Research Center, May 29th 2012, European Unity on the Rocks: Greeks and Germans at Polar Opposites,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.pewglobal.org/files/2012/05/Pew-Global-Attitudes-Project-European-Crisis-Report-FINAL-FOR-PRINT-May-29-2012.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The European project ... of the liberals.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, Extraordinary Rendition has created multiple divides across the country. Smith continues,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ms. Julianne Smith, Director And Senior Fellow, Europe Program, Center For Strategic And International Studies, April 17, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition In U.S.Counterterrorism Policy: The Impact On Transatlantic Relations Joint Hearing Before The Subcommittee On International Organizations, Human Rights, And Oversight And The Subcommittee On Europe Of The Committee On Foreign Affairs House Of Representatives One Hundred Tenth Congress First Session, Serial No. 110–28, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2007_hr/rendition.pdf|Http://Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2007_Hr/Rendition.Pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In addition to ... the United States?</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">European unity now is key to convince the EU to co-operate to embrace policies that can evade the euro collapse within the next couple of months—this card has brink analysis. Krugman continues,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/opinion/editorialsandoped/oped/columnists/paulkrugman/index.html?inline=nyt-per|PAUL KRUGMAN]], May 17, 2012, </span><span class="fn" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Paul Krugman</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">joined</span> <span class="org" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The New York Times</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">in 1999 as a</span><span class="Title1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">columnist on the Op-Ed Page</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">and continues as professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University. Mr. Krugman received his B.A. from Yale University in 1974 and his Ph.D. from MIT in 1977. He has taught at Yale, MIT and Stanford. At MIT he became the Ford International Professor of Economics, Apocalypse Fairly Soon, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/18/opinion/krugman-apocalypse-fairly-soon.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suddenly, it has ... to the task.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, the break up of the euro risks total economic collapse, and totalitarianism. Deo writes,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Deo, Paul Donovan, Larry Hathway, September 6, 2011, UBS Investment Research: Global Economic Perspectives, Global Economics Research, UBS Wealth Management Research (WMR) reviews and analyzes the global economy and presents a broad analysis of specific economic topics to provide an understanding of the current and prospective investment environment. WMR also provides an in-depth analysis of a select number of economies, with a focus on large developed markets and large emerging markets. In addition, WMR provides insights and themes on economic growth, inflation, interest rates and foreign currencies. [[http://bruxelles.blogs.liberation.fr/UBS%20fin%20de%20l'euro.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Finally there is ... likely to suffer.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The only way we can change our image is by rejecting extraordinary rendition publicly. Smith continues, </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ms. Julianne Smith, Director And Senior Fellow, Europe Program, Center For Strategic And International Studies, April 17, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition In U.S.Counterterrorism Policy: The Impact On Transatlantic Relations Joint Hearing Before The Subcommittee On International Organizations, Human Rights, And Oversight And The Subcommittee On Europe Of The Committee On Foreign Affairs House Of Representatives One Hundred Tenth Congress First Session, Serial No. 110–28, [[http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2007_hr/rendition.pdf|Http://Www.Fas.Org/Irp/Congress/2007_Hr/Rendition.Pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Assuming the war ... with European allies.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, we solve for the hearts and minds of the people which is key to the reversal. Malinowski explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tom Malinowski, Washington Advocacy Director,Human Rights Watch, Washington, Dc, July 26, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition, Extraterritorial Detention And Treatment Of Detainees: Restoring Our Moral Credibility And Strengthening Our Diplomatic Standing, Hearing Before The Committee On Foreign Relations,United States Senate,One Hundred Tenth Congress,First Session, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110shrg40379/html/CHRG-110shrg40379.htm|Http://Www.Gpo.Gov/Fdsys/Pkg/Chrg-110shrg40379/Html/Chrg-110shrg40379.Htm]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Then there's the ... justification for torture.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, removing extraordinary renditions tells countries we have listened to them. Malinowski continues,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tom Malinowski, Washington Advocacy Director,Human Rights Watch, Washington, Dc, July 26, 2007, Extraordinary Rendition, Extraterritorial Detention And Treatment Of Detainees: Restoring Our Moral Credibility And Strengthening Our Diplomatic Standing, Hearing Before The Committee On Foreign Relations,United States Senate,One Hundred Tenth Congress,First Session, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110shrg40379/html/CHRG-110shrg40379.htm|Http://Www.Gpo.Gov/Fdsys/Pkg/Chrg-110shrg40379/Html/Chrg-110shrg40379.Htm]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The public debate ... absolutist legal properties.</span>

==Negative== 
===Stock Market NC=== 

Lectric Law Library provides the definition for due process rights.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.lectlaw.com/def/d080.htm]], Lectric Law Library, A Library for and By The Top Legal Scholars</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The standard must be **Maximizing Human Welfare** because that's the only way governments can act and we must evaluate the ends of our action in order to determine whether or not they are moral.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Targeted killing is key to stopping terrorism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Subpoint A - targeted killing has been successful in leadership removals. Johsnton explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Patrick B. Johnston—2010[Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University] “Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation in Counterinsurgency Campaigns.” September 24, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The results strongly .... 1 percent level</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Subpoint B - the threat of targeted killing can scare leaders into hiding and demotivate followers. Byman explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel Byman. //Do Targeted Killings Work?// Journal of Foreign Affairs. March/April 2006. Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The ever-closer relationship ... duty to search</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Subpoint C - even if targeted killing is bad, the only other viable option is letting the terrorist go free. Cullen explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peter M. Cullen. //The Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign against Terror.// 2008. Colonol—Staff Judge Advocate, 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">While the apprehension .... attractive moral option</span>

===Not Mine Off=== 


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The conception of punishment is a communal activity. It is the claim one citizen makes against another. Duff explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Duff, Notes on Punishment and Terrorism</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Punishment, on the ... respect and concern.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And non-citizen terrorists are by definition not part of our community view. Duff 2 explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Now the mere ... treatment of prisoners.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thus, this a prerequisite to affirming because if we don't have an obligation to bring them into court, we have no obligation to grant them due process rights.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Chosen One DA </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Obama is in good shape to win the elections. Bartlett explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bartlett, 9/7 (Bruce, columnist and blogger for The Fiscal Times. He was previously a columnist for Forbes Magazine and Creators Syndicate; author of seven books including The New York Times bestseller Impostor: How George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy, The Financial Times, 9/7/12, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2012/09/07/Why-Barack-Obama-Will-Win-the-Election-Easily.aspx#page1]], “Why Barack Obama Will Win the Election Easily,” ADM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">That said, I'm ... on Election Day.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">But, Obama's counterterrorism policy is a major reason for over two thirds of Americans to vote for him - appearing soft on terrorism would destroy his bid for re-election. Wilson et. al explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Scott Wilson and Jon Cohen February</span><span class="timestamp" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> 7, 2012, </span><span class="entry-title" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Poll finds broad support for Obama’s counterterrorism policies, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/poll-finds-broad-support-for-obamas-counterterrorism-policies/2012/02/07/gIQAFrSEyQ_story.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The sharpest edges ... this election year.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, if Romney wins, he would support an Iran Strike. Hunt explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Hunt, 7/29 (Kasie, political reporter for AP, 7/29/12, Associated Press, Yahoo, http://news.yahoo.com/adviser-romney-back-strike-against-iran-072640314.html, “Adviser: Romney would back strike against Iran,” ADM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Mitt Romney would ... approach to Israel.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And Iran strikes causes a laundry list of impacts including terrorism and conventional war. Russell explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Russell -09 (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School, Spring 2009, Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East, Security Studies Center)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Iran's response to ... potential "Armageddon" scenario.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Across the Globe CP </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A. Counterplan Text: The United States Government will send non-citizens accused of terrorism to a new International Military Commission, where they will be given the same due process rights as in Federal Courts. Dickinson explains the plan,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Laura Dickinson, Using Legal Processes to Fight Terrorism: Detentions, Military Commissions, International Tribunals, and The Rule of Law</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">First, the United ... with American Judges</span>

====<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">International Terrorism</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sending non-citizen terrorists to international court recognizes terrorism as an international crime. Dickinson explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Regardless of the ... all of humanity</span>

====<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Governmental Legitimacy</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Sending individuals to the new court would be perceived as legitimate - this is empirically proven. Dickinson explains, </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Finally, an international ... and information campaigns.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And legitimacy is key to hegemony. Nye and Armitage explain,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joseph Nye (Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard, and previous dean of Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government) and Richard Armitage (13th United States Deputy Secretary of State, the second-in-command at the State Department, serving from 2001 to 2005), “CSIS Reports – A Smarter, More Secure America”, 11/6, 2007 </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Soft power is ... to be democratic</span>

===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Purple Dinosaur NC </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(There were a bunch of analytics at the top of this and the following card)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We control the internal link to all conceptions of justice, governmental obligations, and democracy. Christiano explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thomas Christiano, The Authority of Democracy, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/democracy/</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 22.22222328186035px;">Thus, the standard must be **Consistency with Democratic Polls**.</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">I contend that citizens don't want due process for citizens. Knight writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peyton Knight [“Only 20% of Americans Strongly Support Obama Terror Trials.” PRWeb. 25 November 2009. Polls by Zogby International/O’Leary Press. http://www.prweb.com/releases/American_Voters/9-11_Trials/prweb3255354.htm ]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Obama Administration's ... The O'Leary Report.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hide and Seek DA </span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Uniqueness: We use torture now, and it is open to the public. Wedgewood cites Susan Crawford, Authority of Military Commissions,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ruth Wedgwood, Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commisions</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The top Bush ... case" for protection.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Link: Regardless of whether or not we permit torture, it will still occur under the table. Dershowitz explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dershowitz, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Alan M., 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">11, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reuters,The Case for Torture Warrants, [[http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2011/09/07/the-case-for-torture-warrants/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Most of these ... an extreme case.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, this is empirically proven - Obama bent the lines of the rulebook to allow for torture, the aff won't change a thing. Hentoff explains,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Nat Hentoff, Torture Under Obama, the CATO Institute</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Some of the .... hours of sleep.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C. Impact:</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Checks and balances on the government are key to solving racism and other abuses by the government.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dershowitz</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Alan M., 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">05</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Rights from Wrongs: A Secular Theory of the Origins of Rights, pg. 156-7</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps we...that action.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">These checks can’t function in the absence of visibility.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dershowitz</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Alan M., 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Visibility, Accountability, and Discourse as Essential to Democracy, [[http://www.questia.com/read/1G1-193407111/visibility-accountability-and-discourse-as-essential]]</span>
The recent disclosure...openly distributed.

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Lines in the Sand DA </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama claims he doesn’t want Iraqi nuclear weapons, but his actions reveal otherwise. Netanyahu just made his case YESTERDAY for why Iran is a nuclear threat. CBS news explains,</span>

<span style="color: #3b5998; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">CBS News, Netanyahu Brings Fears of Nuclear Strike to UN, 9/9/12 [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-202_162-57521386/netanyahu-brings-fears-of-nuclear-iran-to-u.n/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama has repeatedly … of American Relations</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, giving terrorists due process rights would trigger the strike by making Obama look soft on terrorism – seals our fate. The only way to prevent the strike is crack down on rights, whereas the aff will ensure it. LoBianco explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">LoBianco, Tom. "Giuliani Calls Obama Soft on Terrorism." The Washingtion Times. N.p., 16 Nov. 2009. Web. 24 Aug. 2012. <http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/nov/16/giuliani-calls-obama-soft-on-terrorism/?page=all></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">What the Obama … ABC’s “This Week”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, an Israeli strike would be an existential threat; endanger Middle East stability and the US. Simon explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Steven Simon, Senior Fellow on Middle Eastern Board, “An Israeli Strike on Iran,” Nov. 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As a first … to be persuasive.</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Breaking Out AC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Anscombe defines “ought.”</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">G.E.M Anscombe, Modern Moral Philosophy, Philosophy 33, No. 124, January 1958, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/mmp.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The terms “should” … required by law.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, the modifications to the general rule of ought requires understanding function. Anscombe [2] continues,</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">G.E.M Anscombe, Modern Moral Philosophy, Philosophy 33, No. 124, January 1958, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/~mthompso/mmp.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Our man may … it remains unreason</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Therefore morality is defined by function, and the government’s function is utilitarian. Goodin writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">GOODIN 1995 (Robert E. Goodin, Professor of Social Sciences & Philosopher at the Research School of Social Sciences at Australian National University, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, p. 8-10)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The strength of … officials to adopt.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Therefore the standard is **Maximizing the Expected Well-Being of Citizens in the Contained Universe.**</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Poverty Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">UHC is critical to solving for poverty. Krishna writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Anirudh Krishna, Sept. 27, 2010, Health care’s link to poverty, [[http://www.ajc.com/news/news/opinion/health-cares-link-to-poverty/nQkbf/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. Census … for ordinary folks?</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, poverty constitutes an ongoing thermonuclear war against the poor. Gilligan explains,</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">James Gilligan, 1997, Director of the Center for the Study of Violence – Harvard Medical School, Violence: Reflections on a National Epidemic p. 195-6 (book)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The 14 to … cause to effect.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Economy Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Health care reform is key to economic stimulus, squo policies consume massive amounts of our GDP. Farrel explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/authors/566-chris-farrell|Chris Farrell]]</span>, December 05, 2008, http://www.businessweek.com/stories/2008-12-05/want-real-stimulus-try-universal-health-carebusinessweek-business-news-stock-market-and-financial-advice, Want Real Stimulus? Try Universal Health Care</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yet major health-care … during the recession.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, Taiwan proves. Lu continues,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jui-Fen Rachel Lu, William C. Hsiao,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Does Universal Health Care make Health Care Insurance More Affordable? Lessons from Taiwan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://populationmedicine.net/content/pdf%5CLu%20RJF,%20Hsiao%20WC%20Does%20universal%20coverage%20make%20health%20care%20unaffordable...%20Health%20Aff%202003.pdf]],</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Single-payer NHI produces … of premium revenues.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline magnifies the risk of conflict and the impact it causes. Royal confirms,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10(Jedediah, director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal, and Political Perspectives, pg. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Less intuitive is … to those views</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Otherization Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The lack of health care creates “in groups” and “out groups” within our society. Gladwell continues,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Malcolm Gladwell, August 29, 2005, The Moral-Hazard Myth, Read more: </span><span style="color: #002c84; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/08/29/050829fa_fact#ixzz2BnEeHvto|http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/08/29/050829fa_fact#ixzz2BnEeHvto]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S. health-care … with the pain.’”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, this otherization is the root cause of all conceptions of violence. Chernus explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Chernus, 91. Ira (PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER), //Nuclear Madness: Religion and the Psychology of the Nuclear Age// p 21-22</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This schizoid’s insecurity … do to them.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Deaths Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">One person dies every 12 minutes because of the lack of Universal Health Care. Heavey explains, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Susan Heavey, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2009/09/17/us-usa-healthcare-deaths-idUSTRE58G6W520090917]], Study Links 45,000 U.S. Deaths to Lack of Insurance, September 9, 2009</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Nearly 45,000 people … reducing healthcare costs.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, it causes huge harms to insured Americans as well. Woolhandler explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Woolhandler and David Himmelstein, [[http://content.ebscohost.com/pdf27_28/pdf/2011/SRE/01Sep11/67182020.pdf]], Healthcare Reform 2.0</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The problems in … and uncovered services.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bioterrorism Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The key to preventing bioterrorism is access to UHC. Green explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shane K. Green, [[http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html]], Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without Access</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">But with the … a bioterrorism attack.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bioweapons cause total human extinction. Parson writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Parson, ‘6 – Ed, University of Michigan, “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]]. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">For his fourth … dozens of countries</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oppression Module</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">People are oppressed in the status quo because of the lack of health care. Frank explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Reanne Frank, A Reconceptualization of the Role of Biology in Contributing to Race/Ethnic Disparities in Health Outcomes </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Population Research and Policy Review</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;"> , Vol. 20, No. 6 (Dec., 2001), pp. 441-455</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Over this past … portion of etiologic.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, health care is key to offsetting the minorities lack of rights. Frank writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Reanne Frank, A Reconceptualization of the Role of Biology in Contributing to Race/Ethnic Disparities in Health Outcomes </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">Population Research and Policy Review</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;"> , Vol. 20, No. 6 (Dec., 2001), pp. 441-455</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Culture/nativity forms an … erroneously allocated to.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Furthermore my questioning of the normal racist system is sufficient – critiques of the system open space for discourse. Giroux explains,</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Giroux, Henry – 2011. “Left Behind? American Youth and the Global Fight for Democracy.” Truthout</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042#2|http://www.truth-out.org/left-behind-american-youth-and-global-fight-democracy68042#2]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">These youth movements … justice and equality.</span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 1.1em;">Fiscal Cliff DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Republicans are likely to compromise on fiscal issues --- needs to be completed before the end of the year. Bolton explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bolton, 11/8 (Alexander, 11/8/2012, The Hill, “Schumer applauds Boehner for changing ‘tone,’ expects GOP to back raising rates,” http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/266833-schumer-applauds-boehner-for-changing-tone-expects-gop-to-back-raising-rates</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Sen. Charles Schumer … case,” he said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, Universal health care is unpopular with Republicans and will end negotiations – ObamaCare proves. Holan Wogan continue,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Holan Wogan, 9/1 (Angie Drobnic Holan, J. B. Wogan, PolitiFact, <span style="color: #0025e5;">[[http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2012/sep/01/scorecard-president-obamas-campaign-promises/]]</span>, “A Scorecard on President Obama’s Campaign Promises”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">When Obama turned … boggling,” he said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, Obama must use capital to secure a fiscal cliff solution—key to avoid global depression. Sullivan explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Sullivan, 11/9 (The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” <span style="color: #0025e5;">[[http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">I’m as amazed … magnaminous. And fast.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline and volatility heightens the risk of nuclear global conflict—multiple scenarios. Burrows and Harris explain,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Burrows and Harris - Counselor in the National Intelligence Council, Member at the National Intelligence Council - 2009 (Mathew J. Burrows, //Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World//—an unclassified report by the NIC published every four years that projects trends over a 15-year period, has served in the Central Intelligence Agency since 1986, holds a Ph.D. in European History from Cambridge University, and Jennifer Harris, Member of the Long Range Analysis Unit at the National Intelligence Council, holds an M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University and a J.D. from Yale University, 2009 (“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” //The Washington Quarterly//, Volume 32, Issue 2, April, Available Online at http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf, Accessed 08-22-2011, p. 35-37)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Of course, the … East, cooperation to.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Furthermore, fiscal cliff results in the rollback of health care, means the aff is meaningless anyway. Schoen writes,</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Doug Schoen, How Do You Responsibly Reform Medicair and Avoid the Fiscal Cliff, forbes.com, 11/15/2012</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The so-called “Fiscal … more dog-eat-dog world</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 1.1em;">T-ObamaCare</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation: Universal health care is a system in which the government provides health care to its citizens, not simply insurance. EmpowerNetwork explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.empowernetwork.com/smil2409/blog/obamacare-is-not-universal-health-care/]], November 15, 2011, “Obamacare is not Universal Health Care”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Universal health care ... name a few.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">B. Violation: ObamaCare is NOT universal health care. Prefer my definition and violation in terms of specificity and intent to define. EmpowerNetwork concludes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.empowernetwork.com/smil2409/blog/obamacare-is-not-universal-health-care/]], November 15, 2011, “Obamacare is not Universal Health Care”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Patient Protection ... an abysmal failure.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C. Standards: Textuality and Jurisdiction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">D. Voter: Fairness</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 1.1em;">50 States CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Counterplan Text: The 50 United States and all relevant sub-national actors will guarantee universal health care to their citizens. Williams explains the counter plan,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Geoff Williams, “5 States Resuscitating Health Care”, May 17, 2007, http://entrepreneur.com/management/insurance/typesofinsurance/article178574.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rising health-care costs ... allies of beleaguered.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Competition: Cross-ex, Normal Means, Net Benefits</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Net Benefits: Solves better than the aff - a local approach is uniquely key. Avery continues, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">George Avery, www.cato.org/publications/commentary/dont-confuse-health-care-reform-public-health, Don't Confuse Health Care Reform with Public Health, March 18, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The primary responsibility ... of the vaccines.</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">PICs (Prison Industrial Complex) AC</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part 1: Ethic</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Moral claims must be in reality. Ryn explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ryn Claes G. **Ryn**—1992. “Universality and History:The Concrete as Normative” From [[http://www.nhinet.org/hum.htm|HUMANITAS]], Volume VI, No. 1, Fall 1992/Winter 1993 ©[[http://www.nhinet.org/index.htm|National Humanities Institute]], Washington, DC USA.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> The reasons why… stifling philosophical renewal.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Morality is based on our will to humanize. Freire explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Freire, Paulo. Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Continuum, 2000. Print</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> While the problem … dehumanizes the opressed</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part 2: Plan</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">The United States Federal Government should abolish prisons and destroy the prison-industrial complex.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In the status quo, the United States values retribution over rehabilitation. This value system has led to the explosion of the prison industry and population, thereby creating the prison-industrial complex, whereby prisoners are exploited as cheap labor. This is empirically verified by the United States’ relatively oversized prison population. Pelaez<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Vicky Pelaez, March 10, 2008, Global Research, The Prison Industry in the United States: Big Business or a New Form of Slavery?, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-prison-industry-in-the-united-states-big-business-or-a-new-form-of-slavery/8289]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Human rights organization … variety of colors.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part 3a: Racism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The punitive functions of the criminal justice system are inherently racist because of the prison. Davis explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Angela Davis, 1998, Colorlines, Masked Racism: Reflections on the Prison-Industrial Complex</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Almost two millions … numbers of prisoners</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> The prison-industrial complex perpetuates a cycle of oppression whereby the undesirables of society are denied resources, profiled as criminals, and incarcerated. Davis 2 explains:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Mass incarceration is … of our society</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Part 3b: Capitalism</span>==== 

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The prison-industrial complex exists to the benefit of the capitalist elite. Cheap labor runs so thick inside prison walls that exploitation is inevitable. Hartnett explains,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephen Hartnett, 1997, Prison Labor, Slavery, and Capitalism in Historical Context</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As the correctional-industrial … in their communities</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> The modern underclass in capitalist society is defined by their “unexploitable” nature; because they are denied social resources, they can’t work, and thus cannot be exploited in the system. Because they’re useless, the capitalist solution is to imprison them. Wright explains,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Erik Wright 1997, Class counts: comparative studies in class analysis</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> In contemporary advanced … the underclass lives</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> The racially disadvantaged groups of the previous section make up the members of this “unexploitable” class. While in prison, capitalists turn those who could previously not be used into the most exploitable people possible: prisoners. Smith and Hattery explain,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Earl Smith and Angela Hattery, 2006, Societies Without Borders, If We Build It They Will Come: Human Rights Violations and the Prison Industrial Complex</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> According to Wright … in the US.d</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The modern underclass in capitalist society is defined by their “unexploitable” nature; because they are denied social resources, they can’t work, and thus cannot be exploited in the system. Because they’re useless, the capitalist solution is to imprison them.</span>


Erik Wright 1997, Class counts: comparative studies in class analysis

In contemporary advanced...the underclass lives.


The racially disadvantaged groups of the previous section make up the members of this “unexploitable” class. While in prison, capitalists turn those who could previously not be used into the most exploitable people possible: prisoners.


Earl Smith and Angela Hattery, 2006, Societies Without Borders, If We Build It They Will Come: Human Rights Violations and the Prison Industrial Complex

According to Wright...in the US



The call for abolition not only leads us to the ultimate overthrow of prisons, it also helps us establish steps of reform along the way.



Angela Davis, History is a Weapon, The Challenge of Prison Abolition: A Conversation,[[http://www.historyisaweapon.com/defcon1/davisinterview.html]]

The seemingly unbreakable...resources and services.





The law-making nature of the aff plan makes it that, even if the plan is not enforced or goes into effect right away, it will begin the process of overturning the status quo. This takes out arguments about the on-face solvency of the plan; the fact that the plan is passed via fiat gives it solvency.



Edna Ullman Margalit, Cass R. Sunstein, 2001, Philosophy and Public Affairs, Inequality and Indignation

The disadvantaged...commitment to change.


Talking about the prison-industrial complex is a necessary step in overturning the oppressions detailed in the case.

Same sudbury cite as above.

Of course, the...anti-globalization projects.



Debate has maximal value when we use our arguments to express our personal beliefs as democratic citizens. We move beyond making empty arguments that we don’t believe in.



Gordon R. Mitchell, 1998, Argumentation and Advocacy, Pedagogical Possibilities for Argumentative Agencies in Academic Debate

In basic terms...world around them.



Prison denies disadvantaged youth the opportunity for real education. Debate is key not only to bring education into oppressed communities like prison, but also to give us, the privileged, perspective on real-world issues.



Bryan McCann, 2007, Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies, Vol. 4, No. 4, Fighting the Prison Industrial Complex: A Call to Communication and Cultural Studies Scholars to Change the World

Consider the successful...lead to it.




==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 


[[media type="custom" key="21618214"]]
[[media type="custom" key="22048258"]]