[[toc]]
=Most Recent 1AC= 
The most recent 1AC we've read for Diego Garcia is the **St. Mark's 1AC.**

=1ACs= 
==Greenhill RR 1AC== 
===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Diego Garcia.
===Advantage 1 is Power Projection=== 
American global strategy is shifting—US forward forces will be forced to the Indian Ocean—kick-out from Middle East and South Asia coming now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

The United States …and contingency operations.
Specifically, we’re shifting to a mobility-centric force but that fails without more transportation infrastructure investment
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holtz-Eakin 5 </span>(Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Director of the Congressional Budget Office, text taken from a CBO study titled, “Options for Strategic Military Transportation Systems,” published September 2005. Text found at [http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/66xx/doc6661/09-27-strategicmobility.pdf] by Hirsh)

Since the end … most, future conflicts.3

AND two internals to primacy
FIRST is Regional Access
Kick-out means Diego Garcia is the lynchpin of access to the Indian Ocean region—improving transportation infrastructure is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pehrson 6 </span>(Christopher J. Pehrson, B.S., M.S., and Master of Strategic Studies degree, lieutenant colonel in the US Air Force, has served as squadron commander and other command levels, has served as an Electronic Warfare Officer and Instructor Aircraft Commander, has participated in contingencies in Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, and Indonesia. Text taken from article titled, “String of Pearls: Meeting the Challenge of China’s Rising Power Across the Asian Littoral,” published July 2006. Text found at [www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub721.pdf] by Hirsh)

America’s Role as … in the region.
AND that’s key to maintaining primacy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

The future stability … can be arranged.100
Independently solves China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedman 9 </span>Edward Friedman 2009, a professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, where he specializes in Chinese politic, Winter 2009, (Dissent Magazine, China: A Threat to or Threatened by Democracy?)

PROFESSOR Ross and … years to come.
That goes nuclear
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Glaser ’11</span>**[Charles Glaser is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs – George Washington University, “Will China’s Rise Lead to War?” Foreign Affairs Vol. 9 Iss. 2, March/April 2011, MCCARTY]

THE PROSPECTS for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.

SECOND is Global Readiness
Kick-out will crush readiness in the squo—plan solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

Finally, the region … jeopardize that influence.
That’s key to de-escalation globally
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perry 06 </span>(William J. “The US Military: Under Strain and at Risk”, January, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://globalsecurity.org/military/library/report/2006/us-military_nsag-report_01252006.htm]]</span>)

In the meantime … to some contingencies.
AND Plan makes heg sustainable and effective
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCain 12 </span>John McCain, US military strategist, FP most powerful Republican, Chairman on foreign arms committee,8/28/2012,“LeadingfromtheFront”,http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/08/28/leading_from_the_front?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full, KENTUCKY

First, Republicans would … their high hopes.
AND American involvement is inevitable—effective primacy solves nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brzezinski 12 </span>(Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security advisor under President Jimmy Carter from 1977-81, author of forthcoming book Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power, political scientist, a Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, M.A. from McGill University. Text taken from article titled, “After America: How does the world look in an age of U.S. decline? Dangerously unstable,” published on Foreign Policy online, in the Jan/Feb 2012 online issue. Text found at [http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full] by Hirsh)

Not so long … normally be conflict.
AND statistics prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen 11</span> associate professor of politics – University of Virginia, 2/11/’11 [John, “Don’t Discount Hegemony,” http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]

Andrew Mack and … democracy remains strong.

AND decline creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brzezinski 12 </span>Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security advisor under U.S. President Jimmy Carter, is author of the forthcoming book Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power, JAN/FEB 2012, “8 Geopolitically Endangered Species”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/01/03/8_geopolitically_endangered_species?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span>, KENTUCKY

With the decline … Persian Gulf allies.
===Advantage 2 is Asia=== 
Asian wars coming now—three warrants
A) Senkaku island dispute deterred because of US presence – future kick out means the plan is key to prevent nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pike 8/29 </span>(John Pike, one of the world's leading experts on defense, space and intelligence policy, Director of GlobalSecurity.org, which he founded in December 2000, previously worked for nearly two decades with the Federation of American Scientists, where he directed the Space Policy, Cyberstrategy, Military Analysis, Nuclear Resource and Intelligence Resource projects, frequently called upon to testify before Congress, established the Space Policy Working Group, set up the Military Spending Group, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, has served on a variety of non-governmental boards and advisory committees, including the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the Peace Research and European Security Studies Center, and the Verification Technology Information Centre of London, has been a consultant to numerous groups, including the United Nations Group of Government Experts on Confidence Building Measures in Outer Space, regularly provides commentary and analysis on space and security issues to PBS, CNN, MSNBC, Fox, ABC, CBS, NBC, BBC, NPR, and numerous print and online publications. Aerospace Weekly called him "one of the country's most credible space industry observers," and the Christian Science Monitor wrote that he was "one of the handful of American observers equally conversant with both the technological and political aspects of strategic defense and arms control." In 1986 the National Journal named Pike as one of the 150 "People Who Make a Difference" in Washington. In 1988 U.S. News and World Report, citing his work on space and defense, listed him among the 250 members of the "New American Establishment." And in 1994 he was named one of the 25 "Rising Stars Who Will Lead us into the Next Space Age" by the National Space Society's Ad Astra magazine. 8/29, 2012, “Senkaku / Diaoyutai Islands”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/senkaku.htm)

Beijing is attempting … US forces nearby.
B) East China Sea
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kleine-Ahlbrandt 9-17 </span>(Stephanie T. Kleine-Ahlbrandt, Masters in International Releations, North East Asia Project Group Director and China Adviser for the International Crisis Group, was an International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has worked for the United Nations as their Officer-in-Charge of the Asia-Pacific Region and as the Desk Officer in the Africa Division, term member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Text taken from article titled, “Dangerous Waters: Why China’s dispute with Japan is more dangerous than you think,” published September 17th, 2012. Text found at [http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/09/17/dangerous_waters] by Hirsh)

The wave of … could prove irresolvable.
C) South China Sea
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser 9-17 </span>(Bonnie S. Glaser, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Senior Fellow with the Freeman Chair in China Studies, senior associate with the Pacific Forum on the Center for Strategic and International Studies, text taken from article titled, “Trouble in the South China Sea,” published September 17th, 2012. Text found at [http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/09/17/trouble_in_the_south_china_sea] by Hirsh))

Yet the South … South China Sea.


AND Impact defense doesn’t apply
A) Arms racing
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Fisher ‘8</span>**[Richard Fisher, Senior Fellow on Asian Military Affairs at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, 2008. “China’s Military Modernization,” p. 1-2, MCCARTY]

At the same … made occasional demonstrations.

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">That ensures nuclear escalation</span>
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Rosen ‘5</span>**[Stephen Rosen, Harvard College Professor and Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University, 2005. Foreign Affairs, “After Proliferation: What to Do If More States Go Nuclear,” p. Lexis, MCCARTY]

Historical evidence suggests … nuclear Middle East.
B) Proximity and short warning times
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Cimbala ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[</span>Professor of Political Science @ Penn. State and a consultant on arms control (Stephen, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, MCCARTY]

If the possibility … major interstate warfare.
C) Failed and rising states ensure miscalc
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

The security situation … projection of power.
Plan solves—two internals
A) Deterrence
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

The Indian Ocean … in the world.”32
B) Crisis de-escalation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)

Diego Garcia in … complex at Tuwaitha.54
AND No offense—US draw-in is inevitable—plan makes it effective
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keating 9-12 </span>(Joshua E. Keating, Associate Editor at Foreign Policy, has worked as a researcher, editorial as, and deputy Web editor since joining FP in 2007, has been published in the Washington Post, Newsweek International, and Center for Defense Information, has appeared as a commentator on CNN International, C-Span, ABC News, NPR, and BBC Radio. Text taken from article titled, “Why the Japan-Chiina island dispute is an American problem,” published September 12th, 2012. Text found at [http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/09/12/why_the_japan_china_island_dispute_is_an_american_problem] by Hirsh)

Despite the history, … Washington is involved.

===Advantage 3 is The Strait of Hormuz=== 
Scenario 1 is Deterrence
Hormuz is a powder keg—recent tensions mean any misstep ensures war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klare 12 </span>(Michael T. Klare, Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College, author of the most popular resource wars impact card in policy debate, defense correspondent for The Nation, serves on the Board of Directors for Human Rights Watch, columnist for Foreign Policy, and author of several acclaimed pieces such as //Resource Wars//. Text taken from article titled, “If the Iranian powder keg explodes,” published January 31st, 2012. Text found at [http://www.salon.com/2012/01/31/if_the_iranian_powder_keg_explodes/] by Hirsh)

Ever since December … the months ahead.
AND War now would go nuclear and global
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Avery 7/24 </span>John Scales Avery is a theoretical chemist noted for his research publications in quantum chemistry, thermodynamics, evolution, and history of science. Since the early 1990s, Avery has been an active World peace activist, In 1995, this group received the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts. Presently, he is an Associate Professor in quantum chemistry at the University of Copenhagen, 7/24, 24 July, 2012, “A Threatened Global Catastrophe”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/avery240712.htm]]</span>, KENTUCKY

Possibly as early … in neutral countries.
AND only way to prevent conflict is deterrence
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ 11 </span>(Wall Street Journal, text taken from article titled, “Iran’s Hormuz Threat,” published December 30th, 2011. Text found at [http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204720204577126892281200220.html] by Hirsh)

The episode is … their own survival.
AND Squo forces aren’t enough to deter
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Herb 7-16 </span>(Jeremy Herb, writing for The Hill, text taken from article titled, “Iran restarts threats over closing Strait of Hormuz,” published July 16th, 2012. Text found at [http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/operations/238061-iran-restarts-threats-over-closing-straight-of-hormuz] by Hirsh)

Iranian officials are … a move already."
AND Plan solves deterrence and de-escalation—TI investment is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)
<span style="display: block; text-align: right;">
</span>
The United States … well-equipped naval facility.
Plan’s key to the brown-water navy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pehrson 6 </span>(Christopher J. Pehrson, B.S., M.S., and Master of Strategic Studies degree, lieutenant colonel in the US Air Force, has served as squadron commander and other command levels, has served as an Electronic Warfare Officer and Instructor Aircraft Commander, has participated in contingencies in Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, and Indonesia. Text taken from article titled, “String of Pearls: Meeting the Challenge of China’s Rising Power Across the Asian Littoral,” published July 2006. Text found at [www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub721.pdf] by Hirsh)

The NSS defines … of Pearls” region.

==Greenhill 1AC== 
Same 1AC as the RR with a new plan text:
===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in its portion of Diego Garcia.

==St. Mark's 1AC== 
Same 1AC as Greenhill but we took out the China scenario (Friedman 9 and Glaser 11) on the heg advantage.

=2AC Add-ons= 
==2AC Japan Relations Add-on== 
CP can’t solve Asia war—also kills Japan relations—plan solves
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sato 9/12 </span>Yoichiro Sato is director of International Strategic Studies at Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University. Distributed by Pacific Forum CSIS, 9/12, 2012, “ US must make clear its stance over Senkakus”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1034343/us-must-make-clear-its-stance-over-senkakus?login=1,KENTUCKY]]</span>
During the past …US-Japan alliance solid.

AND relations solve nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wakabayashi 8</span> Hideki (Hideki Wakabayashi is a visiting fellow with the Japan Chair at CSIS. His primary research topics are U.S. Japan relations and Global Security.) The U.S.-Japan Alliance: A New Framework for Enhanced Global Security by the Center for Strategic & International Studies, October, 22
The United States … of common interests.
==2AC India Relations Add-on== 
plan’s key to US-India relations—but certain federal commitment is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)
While some Western … stable regional order.

That solves Indo-Pak war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dugger 2</span> [Celia W., June 10, “Wider Military Ties With India Offer U.S. Diplomatic Leverage,” New York Times, last accessed 7/8/11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2002/06/10/world/wider-military-ties-with-india-offer-us-diplomatic-leverage.html]]</span>] TD
Military cooperation between … potential strategic threat.

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Starr ’11</span>(Consequences of a Single Failure of Nuclear Deterrence by Steven Starr February 07, 2011 * Associate member of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation * Senior Scientist for PSR
Only a single … Russian nuclear forces.
==2AC Africa Wars Add-on== 
Diego Garcia is key to secure telecomm and GPS
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erickson et al 10 </span>(Andrew S. Erickson, Ph. D. and M.A. in international relations and comparative politics, B.A. in history and political science, Associate Professor at the US Naval War College, founding member for the China Maritime Studies Institute there, an Associate in Research at Harvard University’s John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, an expert contributor to the Wall Street Journal, Fellow in the National Committee on US-China Relations’ Public Intellectuals Program, co-editor and contributor to the Naval Institute Press series, “Studies in Chinese Maritime Development,” Walter C. Ladwig III, Ph. D. in International Relations, B.A. in economics and international relations, departmental lecturer in international relations at the University of Oxford, Visiting Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies, affiliate of the Corbett Centre for Maritime Policy Studies, was previously a consultant to the US Department of Defense, has had work published in several IR journals such as International Security and by several news agencies such as BBC and the New York Times, and Lieutenant Justin D. Mikolay, M.A., Instructor of Political Science, International Relations, and National Security Policy at the US Naval Academy. Text taken from article titled, “Diego Garcia and the United States’ Emerging Indian Ocean Strategy,” published on pages 214-37 of //Asian Security// vol. 6, no. 3, in 2010. Text found at [http://users.ox.ac.uk/~mert1769/Diego%20Garcia.pdf] by Hirsh)
4. A telecommunications station … Global Positioning System.

That solves Africa war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brookes 8 </span>Peter Brookes is a Senior Fellow for National Security Affairs at The Heritage Foundation. He is also a member of the congressional U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. These remarks were delivered at a meeting of the University Philosophical Society at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland, November 24, 2008, “Why the World Still Needs America's Military Might”, http://www.heritage.org/research/lecture/why-the-world-still-needs-americas-military-might , KENTUCKY
In 2007, the … those in need.

AND Africa wars escalate—vested interests ensure great power-draw in
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glick ‘7</span> (Dec. 10, 2007 Caroline Glick , THE JERUSALEM POST)
The Horn of … and global powers.

Africa war causes disease regardless of draw-in
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ASC 3 </span>African Studies Centre et al 2003 (The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf)
In the malign … their national security.

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Darling et al 12</span> (Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling Seattle's Big Blog, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment]]</span>, Washington State University)
Catastrophometer Scale 7.5: …could be threatened.

==2AC Terrorism Add-on== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erikson says the plan is key to solve terrorism – that causes extinction </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9 </span>Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race
In a remarkable … of strategic weapons