[[toc]]
email rsadagopal at gmail for anything during the tournament. For anything afterwards, email Mimi

=Round 1 Aff vs Damien MM= 
Asteroids
=Round 2 Neg vs GBN KS= 
1NC:
JV Ptx
ESA CP
Security K
T Beyond


2NR: JV Politics
=Round 3 Neg vs Beacon= 
Framework 
=Round 4= 
Asteroids
=Round 5 Neg vs Dulles= 
2NR JV Ptx
=Round 6 Aff vs Greenhill SU= 
SDE Aff
=Round 7 Aff vs GDS BH= 
New Transhumanism Aff

==Transhumanism 1AC==

Transhumanism is Good


Their terminal impact is non-unique – existence of advanced tech makes risk of extinction high
Bostrom 3/6/12 – professor of philosophy at Oxford (Nick, “ We're Underestimating the Risk of Human Extinction ” http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/were-underestimating-the-risk-of-human-extinction/253821/)

In one of your papers on  [...] can't really have a nuclear arsenal.

Transhuman tech exists – takes out all impact turns – only a question of how we manage it
WALKER 2009 (Mark, assistant professor at New Mexico State University and holds the Richard L. Hedden Chair of Advanced Philosophical Studies, “Ship of Fools: Why Transhumanism is the Best Bet to Prevent the Extinction of Civilization ,” The Global Spiral, Feb 5, http://www.metanexus.net/magazine/tabid/68/id/10682/Default.aspx)

I suspect that those who think  [...] order for a ship of fools.

 
Now is key – have to give more people the chance to be posthuman
Nick Bostrom, Faculty of Philosophy Oxford University, The Transhumanist FAQ- A General Introduction, Version 2.1 (2003), google.

Transhumanism is compatible with a variety  [...] humans have in their current form. 


Transhuman focus means we address existential risks – those outweigh
Nick Bostrom, Faculty of Philosophy Oxford University, The Transhumanist FAQ- A General Introduction, Version 2.1 (2003), google.

Yes, and this implies an  [...] promote efforts to reduce existential risks. 


 
We need more technology—transhumanism breaks all the limits to a new ecologically healthy world
Bostrom 3 PhD from the London School of Economics  (Nick, 2003, “Transhumanism FAQ”, http://www.paulbroman.com/myspace/Transhumanism_FAQ.txt) 

Population increase is an issue we  [...] traditional environmentalists could scarcely dream of.

Policymaking should be evaluated over the long term – only way to prevent extinction
Tonn 04 – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, DH) 

Why tackle 1000 years and not  [...] -of-the-world.

 
Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule
MATHENY 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)
We may be poorly equipped to  [...] the costs of mitigating them.20

Future lives matter just as much – means you have an obligation to stop extinction
Bostrom 3/6/12 – professor of philosophy at Oxford (Nick, “ We're Underestimating the Risk of Human Extinction ” http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/were-underestimating-the-risk-of-human-extinction/253821/)

Bostrom: Well suppose you have  [...] would be tremendous under ordinary standards.

 
Independently, loss of technology is an existential risk – transition is key
Bostrom 3/6/12 – professor of philosophy at Oxford (Nick, “ We're Underestimating the Risk of Human Extinction ” http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/were-underestimating-the-risk-of-human-extinction/253821/)

Bostrom: Well, again I  [...] a very hard thing to do.

 
Their authors underrate extinction – have to account for observation selection effect
Bostrom 3/6/12 – professor of philosophy at Oxford (Nick, “ We're Underestimating the Risk of Human Extinction ” http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/were-underestimating-the-risk-of-human-extinction/253821/)

Bostrom: The idea of an  [...] analysis for certain kinds of risks.


Space is Key

Sadly, space travel isn’t inevitable – have to colonize before it’s too late
Dvorsky 2006 -  Chairman of the Board at the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies and is the program director for the Rights of Non-Human Persons program (March 13, George, “ Space: Not the Final Frontier ” http://www.sentientdevelopments.com/2006/03/space-not-final-frontier.html)

So, it looks like the  [...] themselves from contaminating less advanced societies.

 
Space is key to transhumanism and vice versa – colonization begins the transition
Andreadis 2008 -  Ph.D. is Associate Professor of Cell Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Shriver Center at UMMS (March 13, Athena, “ Dreamers of a Better Future, Unite! ” http://www.starshipnivan.com/blog/?p=60)

Views of space travel have grown   [...] sapiens species and inhabited worlds instead. 

The plan spurs a transition – space demands transhumanism – resolves all issues with space travel
Vita-More 2006 - president of the Extropy Institute, the founder of "Transhumanist Arts & Culture" online, and a member of The Association of Professional Futurists. She is well-recognized as a community leader and true pioneer in the Extropian & Transhumanist movements (July 7, Natasha, “ STAR CHILD Natasha Vita-More on Transhumanism in Space” http://www.americanantigravity.com/files/interviews/Natasha-Vita-More-Interview.pdf)

AAG: Space environments contain many  [...] is my design “Primo Posthuman.” 


 
Psychological needs towards adventure are unfulfilled which prevents transhumanism– space is key
Sowers 2002 -  Vice President, Business Development and Advanced Programs United Launch Alliance, LLC (June 30, George F. Jr., “ The Transhumanist Case for Space ” http://www.georgesowers.com/ Other_pdf/The_trans_case_for_space.pdf)

Frontiers demand innovation. They are  [...] more intelligent transhumans demand such richness? 

 
Transhumanism demands more resources – space is key
Sowers 2002 -  Vice President, Business Development and Advanced Programs United Launch Alliance, LLC (June 30, George F. Jr., “ The Transhumanist Case for Space ” http://www.georgesowers.com/ Other_pdf/The_trans_case_for_space.pdf)

3. The Argument from Resources  [...] to run free across the universe! 

 
Without space we die before we can transition – there are always impacts but colonization is key to avoid them
Sowers 2002 -  Vice President, Business Development and Advanced Programs United Launch Alliance, LLC (June 30, George F. Jr., “ The Transhumanist Case for Space ” http://www.georgesowers.com/ Other_pdf/The_trans_case_for_space.pdf)

4. The Argument from Risk  [...] own stupidity or just bad luck. 


Space is key to resolve overpopulation and transhumanism – technological constraints
Coyler 2010 (December 16, Steve, “ Space Colonization and Transhumanism - Inevitable? ” http://tetrahedral.blogspot.com/2010/12/space-colonization-and-transhumanism.html)

Space colonies will become necessary to  [...] the cosmos, but cosmosform ourselves. 

 
Independently, space colonization reduces existential risk
Gott 11—Ph.D., professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University, recipient of the Robert J. Trumpler Award, an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, the Astronomical League Award, and Princeton's President's Award for Distinguished Teaching [J. Richard Gott, III, “A One-Way Trip to Mars,” Journal of Cosmology, 2011, Vol 13, http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars151.html]

I've been advocating a one- [...] be wise enough to do this?

Solvency

Plan: the United States federal government should increase its exploration for habitation beyond the mesosphere. 



The aff solves through genetic engineering – it works and beats terraforming
Andreadis 2007 - Ph.D. is Associate Professor of Cell Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Shriver Center at UMMS (April 29, Athena, “ Genetic Engineering and Space Exploration ” http://ieet.org/index.php/IEET/more/andreadis20070429/)

Genetic engineering has advantages that outweigh  [...] we will see differentiation much faster.


 
Technological advancement and speciation are inevitable – their impacts are non-unique 
Allenby 2011 -  Lincoln Professor of Engineering and Ethics and the founding chairman of the Consortium for Emerging Technologies (September 13, Brad, “ Debating Extreme Human Enhancement ” http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/features/2011/debating_extreme_human_enhance ment/even_if_we_dont_want_enhancement_we_might_not_be_able_to_stop_it.html)

Two things, I think.  [...] seem to accept that en passant. 


US is the key breeding ground for transhumanism – focus on individual liberty
Hook 2004 ¬-  hematologist, director of bioethics education for the Mayo Graduate School of Medicine (April 10, C. Christopher, “ Transhumanism and Posthumanism ” http://www.gale.cengage.com/pdf/samples/sp657748.pdf)

For others, however, even  [...] matter of the right to life. 


 
Debate about technology is key to check expert takeover
Evans and Plows, 2007, Robert and Alexander, Social  Studies  of Science, Sage publications “Listening without Prejudice? Re-Discovering the Value of the Disinterested Citizen,” JSTOR, KHaze
The positive consequences of recognizing that  [...] bring that under citizen control.39 




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]