[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention one is Hegemony</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **2 internal links –**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **First, commitment to Space - The US has lost global perceptions of space leadership, tanking credibility**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Dittmar 12)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Mary Lynne Dittmar (Dr., the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc. She is a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships), The Space Review, January 3, 2012, "An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5)", accessed May 16, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Whether or not the US HSF program is actually in retreat depends on one’s point of view. But, as long as the US is not flying humans into space, that point of view is largely irrelevant. What matters in this discussion is the point of view of other nations—and from where they sit, the US suffers from diminished prestige relative to earlier times. It is also seen as a labile partner in cooperative HSF efforts.1 The global response to the release of China’s white paper—evident within 24 hours—suggests there is widespread understanding of (and in some quarters, concern about) at least some of the implications therein. The paper details a methodical approach that builds on what has come before.2 By contrast, when looking to the US for leadership in space, for almost two years other nations have borne witness to a community and a government stuck in a squabble about the merits of “commercial spaceflight” vs. “government spaceflight” or about “Shuttle” vs. “future programs”, or even about “whether government should be involved in spaceflight at all,” a point of view that can only be seriously considered if one is willing to dismiss foreign policy as part of the bargain. Other valuable components of the Obama Administration’s space policy, such as technology development and a focus on capabilities—also with positive implications for soft power—are generally lost in the noise. Seen from a national security perspective, these arguments are mostly spurious. The roles played by NASA and commercial spaceflight providers are not the same. From the point of view of other nations, there is a major policy statement and a variety of implications inherent in a government commitment to a national space program (NASA), particularly HSF: the very Value Proposition (VP) this series has focused on. The same VP does not apply to commercial efforts. They have Value Propositions of their own. A key issue underlying these struggles is lack of clarity within the government as to how—or perhaps if—the United States will balance capabilities and responsibilities resident in private and public civil space sectors, in the interests of national security. In the opinion of the author, this was a major reason for Congressional resistance to the policy shift brought forward by the Obama Administration, although certainly not the only one.3 Pundits have been quick to point to jobs, “pork”, and re-election—and only a naïve observer would disregard those realities—but the hole in US space policy suddenly revealed by the joint occurrence of the end of the Space Shuttle program, the cancellation of Constellation, and the shift to new vendors and procurement processes was not caused by the change in policy, it culminated in it.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **No launch pads makes launch costs high, means no private space ventures**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Citizen Space 9/7**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (a project of the United States Rocket Academy, is dedicated to citizen science and citizen space exploration, “Another Vicious Cycle” 9/7/12, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.citizensinspace.org/2012/09/another-vicious-circle/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Yesterday, we published an article on how launch pad shortages are causing customers to bundle satellites to reduce the number of launches. Unfortunately, this creates a vicious cycle. The ultimate solution to the launch-pad problem is to transition from expendable launch vehicles to reusable vehicles, which can be prepped quickly and don’t spend a lot of time on the pad. But bundling satellites onto larger rockets reduces the number of launches, which reduces the apparent demand and harms the business case for reusable vehicles. As a result, the pad problem continues. Vicious cycles like this have prevented the development of reusable launch vehicles for 40 years. Right now, NASA is contributing to another vicious cycle in a big way (both figuratively and literally) with the development of the Space Launch System. An ambitious deep-space exploration backed by NASA, could create a market for many hundreds of smalls launches, or it could support the development a superheavy launch system like SLS – but it can’t afford both. At the same, the development of SLS will mean that any exploration hardware NASA develops will be designed to fit on SLS, and impossible to launch on smaller, more economical reusable vehicles which might be developed in the private sector. Thus, the Space Launch System threatens to lock NASA into high launch costs for another generation while depriving private industry of the chance to compete for a market that could bring about a revolution in launch costs. If America is to have a meaningful future in space, we need to break out of these vicious cycles. The solution is not, as some believe, to get the US government to buy a handful of flights to the International Space Station. (There’s a good reason why NASA’s COTS and CCDEV programs are funding expendable vehicles, not reusables.) To make real progress, we need thousands of launches. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Second, cooperation - spaceport development encourages international law, cooperation and leadership**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Mária Zulick Nucci is an attorney, licensed to practice in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She also is admitted in several federal jurisdictions. Her practice focuses on federal and state appellate litigation. Joanne Irene Gabrynowicz is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law; professor of space law and remote sensing law; Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law; and a Director of the International Institute of Space Law. She can be contacted at jgabryno@ olemiss.edu. 10 The Issue Is: What Is a Spaceport? The Air & Space Lawyer Volume 24, No. 1, 2011 (</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/Forums/Airspace/MO/MemberDocuments/air_space_24_1.authcheckdam.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Initially, states are analogizing spaceports to airports, which can be reasonable, and relationships among local, state, and federal authorities can be forged using the airport model. As spaceports develop, however, it may become necessary to consider factors that are inapplicable to airports, chief among which is Article VI of the Outer Space Treaty, which makes the U.S. government responsible for supervising all U.S. nongovernmental space actors.21 As a result, the federal government may increasingly need to supervise spaceport operations more closely than it does traditional airports, and may need to invoke the constitutional doctrine of preemption to ensure that the United States meets its obligations under that treaty.22 The Future of the Future for Spaceports In August 2009, the U.S. Department of Transportation created the Commercial Space Transportation Center of Excellence, led by New Mexico State University, as part of the FAA’s Air Transportation Centers of Excellence Program.23 Under the program, the FAA works with universities and members of the aviation industry with the goal of increasing the safety and efficiency of the air transportation system. Because commercial space flight is not confined to the United States, its development and, in turn, that of spaceports are likely to affect the development of international law. For example, a spaceport is planned for Kiruna, Sweden. In January 2009, Spaceport America and Spaceport Sweden signed a memorandum of understanding outlining cooperative efforts, and will consider each other to be “Sister Spaceports,” analogous to the “Sister Cities” program between U.S. and non-U.S. cities. In October 2009, seven nonfederal existing or proposed spaceports and three non-U.S. spaceports formed the Spaceports Council within the Commercial Spaceflight Federation.24 Spaceports also have international law implications. For example, in order to reduce travel time, there are plans to operate point-to-point, longdistance commercial transportation using suborbital flights. This could lead to the development of spaceports near large cities, rather than the current preference for remote or smaller city locations, in order to facilitate suborbital transportation on U.S.–foreign city–pair routes. This will also involve the development of the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen), comprehensive improvements to the National Airspace System, and plans to reduce airspace and airport congestion throughout the U.S. air transportation system.25 On May 4, 2010, the FAA announced the inauguration of the Commercial Space Transportation Grants Program and requested applications for grants.26 More significantly, on June 28, 2010, the Obama administration announced a new National Space Policy of the United States of America, including initiatives for increased commercial and other private-sector space activity and public–private sector cooperation. The Space Policy contemplates increases in NASA’s budget of $6 billion over the next five years. NASA had already invested $50 million in five private-sector entities for commercial space flight research and development. The Space Policy’s Second Principle states: A robust and competitive commercial space sector is vital to continued progress in space. The United States is committed to encouraging and facilitating the growth of a U.S. commercial space sector that supports U.S. needs, is globally competitive, and advances U.S. leadership in the generation of new markets and innovation-driven entrepreneurship.27 Most recently, on September 29, 2010, the Senate passed S. 3729, giving NASA a three-year authorization and matching the $19 billion that the Obama administration had requested for NASA for fiscal year 2011. The bill authorizes $612 million for commercial crew and cargo services development in 2011 and $500 million for commercial crew development in 2012 and 2013. Conclusion A range of developments, including current and proposed spaceport projects, the new federal grant program, contemplated international suborbital travel, the Spaceports Council, NextGen, the new National Space Policy, and the NASA authorization, all indicate an increasing role for spaceports in aviation and aerospace law. Taking a long-term view that looks beyond the immediate state of the recovering economy, these developments hopefully mark a revival of the interest in space that was so prevalent during the 1950s and 1960s. This renewed interest in space draws on the support of international cooperation, rather than the competition and hostility between superpowers that characterized the Cold War and its related “space race.” In today’s environment, competition will focus on the business and commercial spheres, rather than solely or principally on political and military aspects. The diversity of issues presented by the planning, funding, development, and operation of spaceports similarly raises a wide, and increasingly diverse, range of legal issues for spaceports and their owners, operators, and users.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Independently – international regimes build up and spill over**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Mutschler 10**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Max M. Mutschler, “Preventive Arms Control in Space: Breaking the Deadlock” Paper presented at ECPR-SGIR 7th Pan-European International Relations Conference, Stockholm 9-11 Sep. 2010. Institute of Political Science University of Tübingen (</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Mutschler_SGIR2010_Arms_Control_in_Space.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">I will start my discussion with neoliberal institutionalism (Keohane 1989; Keohane 1984), one of the most prominent theories of international cooperation. Neoliberal institutionalism belongs to the rationalist approaches to international regimes that conceptualize their actors as self-interested and goal-seeking. States are the central actors in international relations; they have stable preferences and aim at the maximization of their individual utility. States’ preferences about outcomes are seen as stable over time. This, however, does not mean that change on the international level cannot be explained by this approach. Preferences over policy options can change, mostly as a result of a change in the expected utility of certain options. Cooperation within a certain issue-area may seem too risky, but with the establishment of an international regime, cooperation becomes the preferred policy. The central point here is that the interests of the states – conceptualized as their preferences over outcomes that maximize their utility – determine their behaviour and thereby their interaction on the international levels. How do states manage to cooperate within the rather cooperation-unfriendly environment of international anarchy? The answer of institutionalism is straightforward. International institutions, especially international regimes, enable states to cooperate despite the fact that in an anarchic world, there is no power that can hinder the other states from cheating. In an interdependent world, states often have mutual interests. Zero-sum games are the exception, not the rule. However, these mutual interests must not be taken as a guarantee for international cooperation, as there are various collective action problems that hinder international cooperation. The most famous of these is the so-called “prisoner’s dilemma”. The prisoner’s dilemma is a symmetrical game with two players. Each has the option to cooperate (C) or to defect (D), and each player prefers mutual cooperation to mutual defection. However, the best outcome for each player is a situation in which he defects while the other side chooses to cooperate (DC). It follows that cooperating while the other player defects (CD) is the worst outcome. In such a situation, cooperation is highly unlikely because it is rational for each player to choose defection since he will achieve a higher pay-off than with cooperation.7 International regimes help rational egoists to cooperate in situations similar to the “prisoner’s dilemma”, where uncertainty is the central problem. States do not know if they can trust in their partners – if they can expect them to stick to their commitments. At this point, regimes come into play. Regimes reduce this risk of defection by clearly defining cooperation and often by setting up monitoring agreements. These agreements make information available on the compliance of the cooperation partners, lowering the risk of cooperation. Each is informed about the non-cooperation of the other(s) and can change its own strategy, and the probability of being identified as a cheater reduces the expected utility of cheating. However, it is important that the “game” is not played as a one-shot-game, as it is essential that the so-called “shadow of the future” enables states to follow a strategy of reciprocity. This means that a state chooses to reward cooperation of the other side with cooperation in the future and accordingly to punish current defection with defection in the future.8 The explanation for the establishment of international regimes is a functional one, meaning that it “account*s+ for causes in terms of their effects” (Keohane 1984, 80). In the case of international regimes, the positive effects of regimes are the causes that lead to their establishment. “Institutions exist, because they would have reasonably been expected to increase the welfare of their creator” (Keohane 1984, 80). In the literature, it is quite common to analyze the decisions of states to arm or not to arm as a prisoner’s dilemma (Müller and Schörnig 2006, 40–7; Stein 1983, 312–3). The collective optimum would be no armament or at least the control of armament on both sides. However, there is the temptation to acquire a (decisive) advantage by choosing defection (arming). The insecurity about the motives of the other state(s) makes all sides choose defection and arming is the dominant strategy. This basic logic holds for preventive arms control in space, too. Luithardt (2009) analyses the case of space weapons from this perspective. I follow his argument and present some data to support it. </span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Space cooperation equals sustainable use of space – solves debris and space race.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Buxbaum 11**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Peter A Buxbaum for ISN Insights 27 June 2011 “ Taming the Heavens: The New Space Diplomacy”</span>

<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.capfalcon.net/2011/06/29/taming-the-heavens-the-new-space-diplomacy/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The NSSS does not go far enough, in Grego's opinion. She criticized the document for failing to emphasize arms control agreements "as part of a larger scheme for keeping space secure" and for failing to recommend that the United States take the lead on space diplomacy. Well-crafted arms control proposals could lower the risk of arms races or conflicts in space or on the ground, Grego said, and protect the space environment from the harmful debris caused when countries deliberately destroy satellites. "A more robust diplomatic initiative that includes the major space-faring countries would have the potential to increase cooperation with countries that are not traditional US military allies," she added, "and spur other countries to develop realistic proposals that could ensure a safe and sustainable future in space. Diplomatic engagement could help relieve suspicions among countries, reduce incentives for building anti-satellite systems and other space weapons by establishing negotiated limits, and avert space disputes." The UCS released a report last year which called for the US government to "declare that the United States will not intentionally damage or disable satellites" and "press other space powers to make the same pledge." The report recommended that the US make satellites "more resistant to interference and develop ways to quickly replace them or compensate with other measures if they are disabled." The report also called for the US to assemble an expert negotiating team and to "engage in international discussions on space." "The United States should play an active and leading role in engaging the international community to further develop space laws and norms and to keep space free of weapons," said Grego. "A Code of Conduct provides a useful but preliminary standard for responsible space conduct. It should be a first step, but not the last.”</span>







<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **AND, Space operations key to national credibility and soft power**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Logsdon, Poli Sci Professor, 07)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">John Logsdon (Professor of Political Science at George Washington University, former director of the Space Policy Institute), The Journal for Space and Missile Professionals, March 2007, “Human Space Flight and National Power”, Volume 3, Number 2, accessed March 13, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if human space flight has made, and will continue to make, a significant contribution to US national power, that contribution will come in the form of “soft power.” That this could be the case has been recognized from the start of the US human space flight program. For example, the first comprehensive statement of US space policy, approved by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in January 1960, declared, “To the layman, manned space flight and exploration will represent the true conquest of outer space. No unmanned experiment can substitute for manned exploration in its psychological effect on the peoples of the world.” 7 The May 1961 DoD memorandum suggesting to President John F. Kennedy that he set a manned lunar landing as a national goal noted that “Dramatic achievements in space … symbolize the technological power and organizing capabilities of a nation,” that “This nation needs to make a positive decision to pursue space projects aimed at national prestige. Our attainments are a major element in the international competition between the Soviet system and our own. … ‘civilian’ projects such as lunar and planetary exploration are, in this sense, part of the battle along the fluid front of the cold war,” that “such undertakings may affect our military strength only indirectly if at all, but they have an increasing effect on our national posture,” and that “It is man, not machines, that captures the imagination of the world.” 8 The case for the soft power payoffs from human space flight may have most clearly and pungently been stated by former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, who in 1971 was deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Writing to President Richard M. Nixon about recommendations of the OMB staff to cancel the two remaining Apollo flights and to not approve Space Shuttle development decision which would have had the effect of ending the US human space flight program, Weinberger suggested: Recent Apollo flights have been very successful from all points of view. Most important is the fact that they give the American people a much needed lift in spirit, (and the people of the world an equally needed look at American superiority). [Canceling Apollo 16 and 17 and not approving Shuttle development] would be confirming in some respects a belief that I fear is gaining credence at home and abroad: That our best years are behind us, that we are turning inward, reducing our defense commitments, and voluntarily starting to give up our super-power status, and our desire to maintain world superiority. 9 Twelve years later, NASA made much the same argument in the briefing to President Ronald W. Reagan which asked him to approve the development of a space station, saying that “The presence of man is the key to leadership in space.” 10 Unfortunately, neither the Space Shuttle nor the International Space Station (ISS) programs have lived up to their promised performance, and thus it is a fair question to ask whether human space flight as carried out by NASA over the past quarter century has been a significant contributor to US soft power. The recent contribution of human spaceflight to US national prestige is uncertain, particularly given the uneven record of the international partnership on the ISS. However, the ability to carry non-US astronauts on the space shuttle is a useful foreign policy tool. Even so, space achievements involving direct human presence remain a potent source of national pride, and that such pride is the primary underpinning reason why the US public continues to support human spaceflight. Certainly, space images—an American astronaut on the Moon, a Space Shuttle launch—rank only below the American flag and the bald eagle as patriotic symbols, and such patriotism is a foundation of US soft (and hard) power. The self-image of the United States as a successful nation is threatened when we fail in our space efforts, and catastrophes such as Challenger and Columbia seem to tap deep emotions. Space Exploration and National Power President George W. Bush announced a new US “Vision for Space Exploration” on 14 January 2004; that vision aims at “a sustained and affordable human and robotic partnership to explore the solar system and beyond,” with an initial human return to the Moon and the human missions to Mars. The fundamental goal of the vision is “to advance US scientific, security, and economic objectives.” [emphasis added] 11 In what ways can human exploration of the Moon, Mars, and beyond contribute to space power, and thus to national security? This question has been eloquently addressed by the current NASA administrator, Dr. Michael D. Griffin: “The most enlightened, yet least discussed, aspect of national security involves being the kind of nation and, doing the kinds of things, that inspire others to want to cooperate as allies and partners rather than to be adversaries. And in my opinion, this is NASA’s greatest contribution to our Nation’s future in the world.” He added, Today, and yet not for much longer, America’s ability to lead a robust program of human and robotic exploration sets us above and apart from all others. It offers the perfect venue for leadership in an alliance of great nations, and provides the perfect opportunity to bind others to us as partners in the pursuit of common dreams. And if we are a nation joined with others in pursuit of such goals, all will be less likely to pursue conflict in other arenas. Griffin went even further in his analysis: “Imagine if you will a world of some future time—whether it be 2020 or 2040 or whenever—when some other nations or alliances are capable of reaching and exploring the Moon, or voyaging to Mars, and the United States cannot and does not. Is it even conceivable that in such a world America would still be regarded as a leader among nations, never mind the leader?” He asked “Are we willing to accept those consequences?” 12 These remarks have been quoted at some length because they sum up the core argument of this essay—that human space flight, well conceived and well executed, is a valuable source of soft power for the United States. Whether or not direct military or economic benefits flow from having the ability to send people to orbit and beyond, human space flight will continue to make an important contribution to having the rest of the world see the United States as a great country.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Science leadership is key to sustainable hegemony and cooperation**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Coletta, Poli Sci Professor, 09)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Damon Coletta (Professor of Political Science at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University, Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University, Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University, B.S.E.E., 1988), Defense Technical Information Center, September 2009, "Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence", accessed May 22, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly multipolar world, American policy makers will need more than the Kaysen list of advantages from basic science. Dr. Carl Kaysen served President John Kennedy as deputy national security adviser and over his long career held distinguished professorships in Political Economy at Harvard and MIT. During the 1960s, Kaysen laid out a framework with four important reasons why a great power, the United States in particular, should take a strategic interest in the basic sciences. 1. Scientific discoveries provided the input for applied research, which in turn produced technologies crucial for wielding economic and military power. 2. Scientific activity educated a cadre of operators for leadership in industries relevant to government such as health care and defense. 3. Science proficiency generated the raw elements for mounting focused, applied efforts such as the Manhattan Project during World War II to build the first atomic bomb. 4. Scientific progress built a basic research reserve that when necessary could move quickly to shore up national needs. 1 These arguments underscored science‘s contribution to new products and services that provided market or military advantages. The pursuit of physics, chemistry, and biology at the frontiers of knowledge could have direct effects on national excellence. The following sections of this article extend Kaysen‘s list for the present multi-polar world. The United States‘ largest military and economic shares in such a world do not guarantee empire. Soft power from scientific achievement, however, may make up part of the deficit, enough to augment America‘s reputation and American leadership in the international order. The U.S. science establishment is then described and evaluated for its capacity to integrate and leverage the complete list of science benefits: Kaysen‘s nation-based items plus the civilization-based advantages exposited here. Case studies of the Office of Naval Research and U.S. scientific outreach to Brazil illustrate underlying strengths and weaknesses of the U.S. system for maintaining the lead in basic science. Among the weaknesses, democratic regimes tend to suffocate professions, particularly in the sciences, due to natural hostility between democracy and technocracy. The United States might yet find the right balance by inculcating a politically sophisticated professionalism. In other areas of heavy government responsibility—finance, health care, foreign intelligence, and defense—officials and the public have over time placed considerable trust in expert agents. With greater scientific literacy at the mass level and greater political literacy at the scientific level, America‘s state and society may forge a somewhat freer, healthier relationship with American science, accruing benefits for U.S. material power in the long run and, in the short run, for persuasive influence in the international system. Science and International Leadership In their book on Leading Sectors and World Powers (1996), George Modelski and William Thompson extended their analysis of innovation back, beyond the birth of industrial capitalism, to the Sung Dynasty in China at the turn of the First Millennium. 2 Modelski and Thompson mentioned inventions like the compass that helped leaders extract wealth from maritime East-West trade routes, but they also noted the Sung rulers‘ cultivation of knowledge and the influence of Chinese intellectuals on administrative reform. A scientific society has the opportunity to apply methods and models toward political and economic questions. Just before the November 2008 elections, the New York Times’ David Ignatius sat down with two former national security advisers, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft, for a series of interviews on foreign policy. 3 In their discussion of complementary strengths that could lay the groundwork for greater transatlantic cooperation, the advisers noted how impressive it was that the European Union could knit together so many independent states with sophisticated, comprehensive rules and regulations without inadvertently strangling economic growth. It seems improbable that Europe could build the administrative structures for a successful common currency or a single labor market without an ethos that came from scientific competence. Progress in the physical sciences can spill over in a way that supports modern institutions and efficient public policy. Spillover to social sciences reinforces the notion that scientific progress and scientific literacy are civilizing influences. As such they can fortify what Joseph Nye termed a country‘s soft power, its capacity to establish appealing precedents for the rest of the world. 4 Science shares properties with Olympic sport in that it can open avenues for non-coercive cultural hegemony. Foreign emulation in science, though, counts for more than soccer or gymnastics. The demonstration effect in physics may initially appear as man-overcoming-Nature rather than man-versusman, but great scientific advance is more cumulative than victory in the Games. Anyone seeking to take the next step must accommodate the vernacular of the pioneer and accept his tutelage in the universal logic governing scientific concepts. Moreover, the ingenuity and skills on display as a citizen in a specific nation-state, albeit working at university, unlocks another secret of nature register around the world as excellence that could someday be harnessed by government and adapted to the state-versus-state context. That fungibility garners international respect and piques interest in greater collaboration. In his study of American science overtures to Europe during the first decades of the Cold War, John Krige related how overlapping interests and in some instances the overlapping community of scientists and government officials infused pure science aid with foreign policy purpose. The construction of CERN (Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire) for all-European particle research in Geneva. European conferences of the well-connected Ford Foundation and the development of the NATO Science Committee did not simply advance basic knowledge; they also nurtured a special dialogue, unencumbered by normal diplomatic preoccupations. This privileged communication nevertheless facilitated American hegemony and buttressed Western solidarity against intimidation, or alternate offers, from the Soviet Union. In material balance of power terms, the larger economy and more capable nuclear forces of the United States were seen as less threatening to Western Europe than the Red Army, deployed just over the makeshift border with East Germany. 5 Cultural appeal, including scientific prowess as well as liberal democratic ideals, afforded the United States extra diplomatic margin as it simultaneously expanded its own arsenal and its alliances against a technically inferior opponent. Finally, during the late-Cold War, after 1970, the economic rise of Germany and Japan, the larger diplomatic role of China, and the greater international participation from post-colonial governments in the developing world reshaped the global agenda. Problems traditionally managed by the great powers— arms control, arms proliferation, international development, environmental consequences of industrialization and urbanization—were picked up by non-governmental entities who sought to influence state behavior. Given their small budgets and their status as outside observers rather than diplomats or official negotiators, specialized knowledge was their instrument of choice. As transportation and communication technologies improved through the 1980s and 1990s, issue-based groups and public policy institutes proliferated, combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Independently, soft power solves extinction**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Nye, IR Professor, and Armitage 07)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Joseph Nye**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (Professor and Former Dean Of Kennedy School of Government at Harvard), </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and Richard Armitage</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (deputy secretary of state from 2001 to 2005, both are co-chairs of the CSIS Commission on Smart Power), </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CSIS</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (Center for Strategic and International Studies), </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">, “CSIS Commission on Smart Power: a smarter, more secure America”, accessed March 28, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Soft power is the ability to attract people to our side without coercion. Legitimacy is central to soft power. If a people or nation believes American objectives to be legitimate, we are more likely to persuade them to follow our lead without using threats and bribes. Legitimacy can also reduce opposition to—and the costs of—using hard power when the situation demands. Appealing to others’ values, interests, and preferences can, in certain circumstances, replace the dependence on carrots and sticks. Cooperation is always a matter of degree, and it is profoundly influenced by attraction. This is evident in the changing nature of conflict today, including in Iraq and against al Qaeda. In traditional conflict, once the enemy is vanquished militarily, he is likely to sue for peace. But many of the organizations against which we are fighting control no territory, hold few assets, and sprout new leaders for each one that is killed. Victory in the traditional sense is elusive. Militaries are well suited to defeating states, but they are often poor instruments to fight ideas. Today, victory depends on attracting foreign populations to our side and helping them to build capable, democratic states. Soft power is essential to winning the peace. It is easier to attract people to democracy than to coerce them to be democratic. Since America rose on the world stage in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it has wielded a distinctive blend of hard and soft power. Despite nineteenth-century military adventures in the Western hemisphere and in the Philippines, the U.S. military has not been put in the service of building a colonial empire in the manner of European militaries. Particularly since World War II, America has sought to promote rules and order in a world in which life continues to be nasty, brutish, and short for the majority of inhabitants. American sources of soft power are plentiful. Soft power is more than mere cultural power, although the appeal of Hollywood and American products can play a role in inspiring the dreams and desires of others. Sources include the political values and ideas enshrined in the Constitution and Bill of Rights, U.S. economic and educational systems, personal contacts and exchanges, and our somewhat reluctant participation and leadership in institutions that help shape the global agenda. One of the biggest sources of U.S. soft power is quite simply America’s obvious success as a nation. Not everyone looks forward to a more interconnected and tolerant world. These ideas can be threatening to those who consider their way of life to be under siege by the West. Those who feel this divide most strongly are often the very people who seek to fight America and its allies. Yet every year the United States attracts more than four times the number of immigrants than any other country, and hundreds of thousands of foreign scholars and students as well. America’s history as an immigrant nation is an important source of its soft power. There is an enormous strength and vitality in the American civic spirit of opportunity, tolerance, mutual respect, and shared commitment and in an economy that rewards innovation and hard work. For people everywhere, the United States can be a partner for a better life. wHat IS Smart Power? Smart power is neither hard nor soft—it is the skillful combination of both. Smart power means developing an integrated strategy, resource base, and tool kit to achieve American objectives, drawing on both hard and soft power. It is an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships, and institutions at all levels to expand American influence and establish the legitimacy of American action. Providing for the global good is central to this effort because it helps America reconcile its overwhelming power with the rest of the world’s interests and values. Elements of this approach exist today in U.S. foreign policy, but they lack a cohesive rationale and institutional grounding. Three main obstacles exist. First, U.S. foreign policy has tended to over-rely on hard power because it is the most direct and visible source of American strength. The Pentagon is the best trained and best resourced arm of the federal government. As a result, it tends to fill every void, even those that civilian instruments should fill. America must retain its military superiority, but in today’s context, there are limits to what hard power can achieve on its own. Second, U.S. foreign policy is still struggling to develop soft power instruments. Diplomatic tools and foreign assistance are often directed toward states, which increasingly compete for power with non-state actors within their borders. Diplomacy and foreign assistance are often underfunded and underused. These tools are neglected i part because of the difficulty of demonstrating their short-term impact on critical challenges. Figure 1 shows U.S. spending on international affairs over the past 20 years. Note that funding was generally stagnant for a decade. Increases in the early 1990s—due primarily to economic aid to Eastern and Central Europe—were offset by reductions in development assistance and public diplomacy funding. Increases from 1999 to 2002 were driven in part by security concerns following the embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar el Salaam. Recent increases are on account of support to critical countries in the war on terror, the Millennium Challenge Corporation and PEPFAR initiatives, and humanitarian emergencies. It should come as no surprise that some of the best-funded and most appreciated soft power tools have been humanitarian operations carried out by the U.S. military such as tsunami relief in Southeast Asia and the earthquake response in Pakistan, since these operations produced results that were clear, measurable, and unassailable. Wielding soft power is especially difficult, however, because many of America’s soft power resources lie outside of government in the private sector and civil society, in its bilateral alliances, or through its participation in multilateral institutions. Third, U.S. foreign policy institutions are fractured and compartmentalized. Coordination, where there is any, happens either at a relatively low level or else at the very highest levels of government—both typically in crisis settings that drive out long-range planning. Stovepiped institutional cultures inhibit joint action. More thought should also be put into sequencing and integrating hard and soft power instruments, particularly in the same operating theater. Some elements of this approach are already occurring in the conduct of ongoing counterinsurgency, nation building, and counterterrorism operations—tasks that depend critically but only partially on hard power. The United States has in its past wielded hard and soft power in concert, with each contributing a necessary component to a larger aim. We used hard power to deter the Soviet Union during the Cold War and soft power to rebuild Japan and Europe with the Marshall Plan and to establish institutions and norms that have become the core of the international system. Today’s context presents a unique set of challenges, however, and requires a new way of thinking about American power Today's Challenges The twenty-first century presents a number of unique foreign policy challenges for today’s decisionmakers. These challenges exist at an international, transnational, and global level. Despite America’s status as the lone global power and concerns about the durability of the current international order, America should renew its commitment to the current order and help find a way for today’s norms and institutions to accommodate rising powers that may hold a different set of principles and values. Furthermore, even countries invested in the current order may waver in their commitment to take action to minimize the threats posed by violent non-state actors and regional powers who challenge this order. The information age has heightened political consciousness, but also made political groupings less cohesive. Small, adaptable, transnational networks have access to tools of destruction that are increasingly cheap, easy to conceal, and more readily available. Although the integration of the global economy has brought tremendous benefits, threats such as pandemic disease and the collapse of financial markets are more distributed and more likely to arise without warning. The threat of widespread physical harm to the planet posed by nuclear catastrophe has existed for half a century, though the realization of the threat will become more likely as the number of nuclear weapons states increases. The potential security challenges posed by climate change raise the possibility of an entirely new set of threats for the United States to consider. The next administration will need a strategy that speaks to each of these challenges. Whatever specific approach it decides to take, two principles will be certain: First, an extra dollar spent on hard power will not necessarily bring an extra dollar’s worth of security. It is difficult to know how to invest wisely when there is not a budget based on a strategy that specifies trade-offs among instruments. Moreover, hard power capabilities are a necessary but insufficient guarantee of security in today’s context. Second, success and failure will turn on the ability to win new allies and strengthen old ones both in government and civil society. The key is not how many enemies the United States kills, but how many allies it grows.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Science leadership also prevents conflict escalation and resource wars**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Royal Society 10)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Royal Society, AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science, Founded in 1848, it serves some 262 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10 million individuals), January 2010, “New Frontiers of Science Diplomacy”, accessed January 3, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://diplomacy.aaas.org/files/New_Frontiers.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verification sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2).</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Finally, the Terminal Impacts - Leadership leads to liberal cooperation - prevents nuclear war**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Zhang and Shi 11)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Yuhan Zhang (researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.), and Lin Shi (from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C.), East Asia Forum, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”, accessed May 16, 2011, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973).</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **AND, Statistics prove**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Owen, Poli Sci Professor, 11)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">John Owen (Associate professor of Politics at the University of Virginia), Cato Institute, February 11, 2011, “Don’t Discount Hegemony”, accessed March 13, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Andrew Mack and his colleagues at the Human Security Report Project are to be congratulated. Not only do they present a study with a striking conclusion, driven by data, free of theoretical or ideological bias, but they also do something quite unfashionable: they bear good news. Social scientists really are not supposed to do that. Our job is, if not to be Malthusians, then at least to point out disturbing trends, looming catastrophes, and the imbecility and mendacity of policy makers. And then it is to say why, if people listen to us, things will get better. We do this as if our careers depended upon it, and perhaps they do; for if all is going to be well, what need then for us? Our colleagues at Simon Fraser University are brave indeed. That may sound like a setup, but it is not. I shall challenge neither the data nor the general conclusion that violent conflict around the world has been decreasing in fits and starts since the Second World War. When it comes to violent conflict among and within countries, things have been getting better. (The trends have not been linear—Figure 1.1 actually shows that the frequency of interstate wars peaked in the 1980s—but the 65-year movement is clear.) Instead I shall accept that Mack et al. are correct on the macro-trends, and focus on their explanations they advance for these remarkable trends. With apologies to any readers of this forum who recoil from academic debates, this might get mildly theoretical and even more mildly methodological. Concerning international wars, one version of the “nuclear-peace” theory is not in fact laid to rest by the data. It is certainly true that nuclear-armed states have been involved in many wars. They have even been attacked (think of Israel), which falsifies the simple claim of “assured destruction”—that any nuclear country A will deter any kind of attack by any country B because B fears a retaliatory nuclear strike from A. But the most important “nuclear-peace” claim has been about mutually assured destruction, which obtains between two robustly nuclear-armed states. The claim is that (1) rational states having second-strike capabilities—enough deliverable nuclear weaponry to survive a nuclear first strike by an enemy—will have an overwhelming incentive not to attack one another; and (2) we can safely assume that nuclear-armed states are rational. It follows that states with a second-strike capability will not fight one another. Their colossal atomic arsenals neither kept the United States at peace with North Vietnam during the Cold War nor the Soviet Union at peace with Afghanistan. But the argument remains strong that those arsenals did help keep the United States and Soviet Union at peace with each other. Why non-nuclear states are not deterred from fighting nuclear states is an important and open question. But in a time when calls to ban the Bomb are being heard from more and more quarters, we must be clear about precisely what the broad trends toward peace can and cannot tell us. They may tell us nothing about why we have had no World War III, and little about the wisdom of banning the Bomb now. Regarding the downward trend in international war, Professor Mack is friendlier to more palatable theories such as the “democratic peace” (democracies do not fight one another, and the proportion of democracies has increased, hence less war); the interdependence or “commercial peace” (states with extensive economic ties find it irrational to fight one another, and interdependence has increased, hence less war); and the notion that people around the world are more anti-war than their forebears were. Concerning the downward trend in civil wars, he favors theories of economic growth (where commerce is enriching enough people, violence is less appealing—a logic similar to that of the “commercial peace” thesis that applies among nations) and the end of the Cold War (which end reduced superpower support for rival rebel factions in so many Third-World countries). These are all plausible mechanisms for peace. What is more, none of them excludes any other; all could be working toward the same end. That would be somewhat puzzling, however. Is the world just lucky these days? How is it that an array of peace-inducing factors happens to be working coincidentally in our time, when such a magical array was absent in the past? The answer may be that one or more of these mechanisms reinforces some of the others, or perhaps some of them are mutually reinforcing. Some scholars, for example, have been focusing on whether economic growth might support democracy and vice versa, and whether both might support international cooperation, including to end civil wars. We would still need to explain how this charmed circle of causes got started, however. And here let me raise another factor, perhaps even less appealing than the “nuclear peace” thesis, at least outside of the United States. That factor is what international relations scholars call hegemony—specifically American hegemony. A theory that many regard as discredited, but that refuses to go away, is called hegemonic stability theory. The theory emerged in the 1970s in the realm of international political economy. It asserts that for the global economy to remain open—for countries to keep barriers to trade and investment low—one powerful country must take the lead. Depending on the theorist we consult, “taking the lead” entails paying for global public goods (keeping the sea lanes open, providing liquidity to the international economy), coercion (threatening to raise trade barriers or withdraw military protection from countries that cheat on the rules), or both. The theory is skeptical that international cooperation in economic matters can emerge or endure absent a hegemon. The distastefulness of such claims is self-evident: they imply that it is good for everyone the world over if one country has more wealth and power than others. More precisely, they imply that it has been good for the world that the United States has been so predominant. There is no obvious reason why hegemonic stability theory could not apply to other areas of international cooperation, including in security affairs, human rights, international law, peacekeeping (UN or otherwise), and so on. What I want to suggest here—suggest, not test—is that American hegemony might just be a deep cause of the steady decline of political deaths in the world. How could that be? After all, the report states that United States is the third most war-prone country since 1945. Many of the deaths depicted in Figure 10.4 were in wars that involved the United States (the Vietnam War being the leading one). Notwithstanding politicians’ claims to the contrary, a candid look at U.S. foreign policy reveals that the country is as ruthlessly self-interested as any other great power in history. The answer is that U.S. hegemony might just be a deeper cause of the proximate causes outlined by Professor Mack. Consider economic growth and openness to foreign trade and investment, which (so say some theories) render violence irrational. American power and policies may be responsible for these in two related ways. First, at least since the 1940s Washington has prodded other countries to embrace the market capitalism that entails economic openness and produces sustainable economic growth. The United States promotes capitalism for selfish reasons, of course: its own domestic system depends upon growth, which in turn depends upon the efficiency gains from economic interaction with foreign countries, and the more the better. During the Cold War most of its allies accepted some degree of market-driven growth. Second, the U.S.-led western victory in the Cold War damaged the credibility of alternative paths to development—communism and import-substituting industrialization being the two leading ones—and left market capitalism the best model. The end of the Cold War also involved an end to the billions of rubles in Soviet material support for regimes that tried to make these alternative models work. (It also, as Professor Mack notes, eliminated the superpowers’ incentives to feed civil violence in the Third World.) What we call globalization is caused in part by the emergence of the United States as the global hegemon.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **AND, No offense - Elites will inevitably pursue hegemony**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Calleo 10)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">David P. Calleo (Director – European Studies Program and Professor at SAIS), Survival, July 21, 2010, “American Decline Revisited", Volume 52, Issue 4, Pg. 215 – 227, accessed March 13, 2012, Taylor and Francis Online Database</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is not easy for the United States. As its economic strength is increasingly challenged by relative decline, it clings all the more to its peerless military prowess. As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have shown, that overwhelming military power, evolved over the Cold War, is less and less effective. In many respects, America's geopolitical imagination seems frozen in the posture of the Cold War. The lingering pretension to be the dominant powereverywhere has encouraged the United States to hazard two unpromising land wars, plus a diffuse and interminable struggle against 'terrorism'. Paying for these wars and the pretensions behind them confirms the United States in a new version of Cold War finance. Once more, unmanageable fiscal problems poison the currency, an old pathology that firmly reinstates the nation on its path to decline. It was the hegemonic Cold War role, after all, that put the United States so out of balance with the rest of the world economy. In its hegemonic Cold War position, the United States found it necessary to run very large deficits and was able to finance them simply by creating and exporting more and more dollars. The consequence is today's restless mass of accumulated global money. Hence, whereas the value of all global financial assets in 1980 was just over 100% of global output, by 2008, even after the worst of the financial implosion, that figure had exploded to just under 300%.25 Much of this is no doubt tied up in the massive but relatively inert holdings of the Chinese and Japanese. But thanks to today's instantaneous electronic transfers, huge sums can be marshalled and deployed on very short notice. It is this excess of volatile money that arguably fuels the world's great recurring bubbles. It can create the semblance of vast real wealth for a time, but can also (with little notice) sow chaos in markets, wipe out savings and dry up credit for real investment. What constitutes a morbid overstretch in the American political economy thus ends up as a threat to the world economy in general. To lead itself and the world into a more secure future the United States must put aside its old, unmeasured geopolitical ambitions paid for by unlimited cheap credit. Instead, the United States needs a more balanced view of its role in history. But America's post-Soviet pundits have, unfortunately, proved more skilful at perpetuating outmoded dreams of past glory than at promoting the more modest visions appropriate to a plural future. One can always hope that newer generations of Americans will find it easier to adjust to pluralist reality. The last administration, however, was not very encouraging in this regard. III What about Barack Obama? So far, his economic policy has shown itself probably more intelligent and certainly more articulate than his predecessor's. His thinking is less hobbled by simple-minded doctrines. It accepts government's inescapable role in regulating markets and providing a durable framework for orderly governance and societal fellowship. To be sure, the Obama administration, following in the path of the Bush administration, has carried short-term counter-cyclical stimulation to a previously unimagined level. Perhaps so radical an expansion of credit is unavoidable under present circumstances. The administration is caught between the need to rebalance by scaling back and the fear that restraint applied now will trigger a severe depression. Obama's chief aide, Rahm Emanuel, is famous for observing: 'Rule one: Never allow a crisis to go to waste. They are opportunities to do big things.'26 So far, Obama's administration has made use of its crisis to promote an unprecedented expansion of welfare spending.27 Much of the spending is doubtless good in itself and certainly serves the administration's strong counter-cyclical purposes. But at some point the need to pass from expansion to stabilisation will presumably be inescapable. Budget cuts will have to be found somewhere, and demographic trends suggest that drastic reductions in civilian welfare spending are unlikely. Elementary prudence might suggest that today's financial crisis is an ideal occasion for America's long-overdue retreat from geopolitical overstretch, a time for bringing America's geopolitical pretensions into harmony with its diminishing foreign possibilities and expanding domestic needs. The opportunities for geopolitical saving appear significant. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), current military plans will require an average military budget of $652bn (in 2010 dollars) each year through 2028. The estimate optimistically assumes only 30,000 troops will be engaged abroad after 2013. As the CBO observes, these projections exceed the peak budgets of the Reagan administration's military build-up of the mid-1980s (about $500bn annually in 2010 dollars). This presumes a military budget consuming 3.5% of GDP through 2020.28 Comparable figures for other nations are troubling: 2.28% for the United Kingdom, 2.35% for France, 2.41% for Russia and 1.36% for China.29 Thus, while the financial crisis has certainly made Americans fear for their economic future, it does not yet seem to have resulted in a more modest view of the country's place in the world, or a more prudent approach to military spending. Instead, an addiction to hegemonic status continues to blight the prospects for sound fiscal policy. Financing the inevitable deficits inexorably turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **AND, Leadership transition causes apolarity and competition**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Brezezinski, IR Professor, 12)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Zbigniew Brzezinski (Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University) Foreign Policy “After America” January/February 2012</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single preeminent successor -- not even China. International uncertainty, increased tension among global competitors, and even outright chaos would be far more likely outcomes. While a sudden, massive crisis of the American system -- for instance, another financial crisis -- would produce a fast-moving chain reaction leading to global political and economic disorder, a steady drift by America into increasingly pervasive decay or endlessly widening warfare with Islam would be unlikely to produce, even by 2025, an effective global successor. No single power will be ready by then to exercise the role that the world, upon the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, expected the United States to play: the leader of a new, globally cooperative world order. More probable would be a protracted phase of rather inconclusive realignments of both global and regional power, with no grand winners and many more losers, in a setting of international uncertainty and even of potentially fatal risks to global well-being. Rather than a world where dreams of democracy flourish, a Hobbesian world of enhanced national security based on varying fusions of authoritarianism, nationalism, and religion could ensue. The leaders of the world's second-rank powers, among them India, Japan, Russia, and some European countries, are already assessing the potential impact of U.S. decline on their respective national interests. The Japanese, fearful of an assertive China dominating the Asian mainland, may be thinking of closer links with Europe. Leaders in India and Japan may be considering closer political and even military cooperation in case America falters and China rises. Russia, while perhaps engaging in wishful thinking (even schadenfreude) about America's uncertain prospects, will almost certainly have its eye on the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Europe, not yet cohesive, would likely be pulled in several directions: Germany and Italy toward Russia because of commercial interests, France and insecure Central Europe in favor of a politically tighter European Union, and Britain toward manipulating a balance within the EU while preserving its special relationship with a declining United States. Others may move more rapidly to carve out their own regional spheres: Turkey in the area of the old Ottoman Empire, Brazil in the Southern Hemisphere, and so forth. None of these countries, however, will have the requisite combination of economic, financial, technological, and military power even to consider inheriting America's leading role. […] At the same time, the security ofa number of weakerstates locatedgeographicallynext to majorregional powers</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> also </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">depends on the international status quo reinforced by America's global preeminence -- and would be made significantly more vulnerable in proportion to America's decline. The states in that exposed position -- including Georgia, Taiwan, South Korea, Belarus, Ukraine, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Israel, and the greater Middle East -- are today's geopolitical equivalents of nature's most endangered species. Their fates are closely tied to the nature of the international environment left behind by a waning America, be it ordered and restrained or, much more likely, self-serving and expansionist. A faltering United States could also find its strategic partnership with Mexico in jeopardy. America's economic resilience and political stability have so far mitigated many of the challenges posed by such sensitive neighborhood issues as economic dependence, immigration, and the narcotics trade. A decline in American power, however, would likely undermine the health and good judgment of the U.S. economic and political systems. A waning United States would likely be more nationalistic, more defensive about its national identity, more paranoid about its homeland security, and less willing to sacrifice resources for the sake of others' development. The worsening of relations between a declining America and an internally troubled Mexico could even give rise to a particularly ominous phenomenon: the emergence, as a major issue in nationalistically aroused Mexican politics, of territorial claims justified by history and ignited by cross-border incidents. Another consequence of American decline could be a corrosion of the generally cooperative management of the global commons -- shared interests such as sea lanes, space, cyberspace, and the environment, whose protection is imperative to the long-term growth of the global economy and the continuation of basic geopolitical stability. In almost every case, the potential absence of a constructive and influential U.S. role would fatally undermine the essential communality of the global commons because the superiority and ubiquity of American power creates order where there would normally be conflict.</span>






**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.5pt;">Settlement</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Extinction inevitable**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Matheny 7** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">(Jason G., Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">It is possible for humanity (or its descendents) to survive a million years or more, but we could succumb to extinction as soon as this century. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, U.S. President Kennedy estimated the probability of a nuclear holocaust as "somewhere between one out of three and even" (Kennedy, 1969 , p. 110). John von Neumann, as Chairman of the U.S. Air Force Strategic Missiles Evaluation Committee, predicted that it was "absolutely certain (1) that there would be a nuclear war; and (2) that everyone would die in it" (Leslie, 1996 , p. 26). More recent predictions of human extinction are little more optimistic. In their catalogs of extinction risks, Britain's Astronomer Royal, Sir Martin Rees (2003) , gives humanity 50-50 odds on surviving the 21st century; philosopher Nick Bostrom argues that it would be "misguided" to assume that the probability of extinction is less than 25%; and philosopher John Leslie (1996) assigns a 30% probability to extinction during the next five centuries. The "Stern Review" for the U.K. Treasury (2006) assumes that the probability of human extinction during the next century is 10%. And some explanations of the "Fermi Paradox" imply a high probability (close to 100%) of extinction among technological civilizations (Pisani, 2006 ).4 Estimating the probabilities of unprecedented events is subjective, so we should treat these numbers skeptically. Still, even if the probability of extinction is several orders lower, because the stakes are high, it could be wise to invest in extinction countermeasures.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives and comes before any other impact**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Bostrom 11**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. For any fixed probability, existential risks are thus more serious than other risk categories. But just how much more serious might not be intuitively obvious. One might think we could get a grip on how bad an existential catastrophe would be by considering some of the worst historical disasters we can think of—such as the two world wars, the Spanish flu pandemic, or the Holocaust—and then imagining something just a bit worse. Yet if we look at global population statistics over time, we find that these horrible events of the past century fail to register (figure 3). Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.) But even this reflection fails to bring out the seriousness of existential risk. What makes existential catastrophes especially bad is not that they would show up robustly on a plot like the one in figure 3, causing a precipitous drop in world population or average quality of life. Instead, their significance lies primarily in the fact that they would destroy the future. The philosopher Derek Parfit made a similar point with the following thought experiment: I believe that if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. Compare three outcomes: (1) Peace. (2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population. (3) A nuclear war that kills 100%. (2) would be worse than (1), and (3) would be worse than (2). Which is the greater of these two differences? Most people believe that the greater difference is between (1) and (2). I believe that the difference between (2) and (3) is very much greater. … The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these few thousand years may be only a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history. The difference between (2) and (3) may thus be the difference between this tiny fraction and all of the rest of this history. If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454) To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 1018 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 10^18 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. However, the relevant figure is not how many people could live on Earth but how many descendants we could have in total. One lower bound of the number of biological human life-years in the future accessible universe (based on current cosmological estimates) is 10^34 years.[10] Another estimate, which assumes that future minds will be mainly implemented in computational hardware instead of biological neuronal wetware, produces a lower bound of 10^54 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 10^71 basic computational operations).(4)[11] If we make the less conservative assumption that future civilizations could eventually press close to the absolute bounds of known physics (using some as yet unimagined technology), we get radically higher estimates of the amount of computation and memory storage that is achievable and thus of the number of years of subjective experience that could be realized.[12] Even if we use the most conservative of these estimates, which entirely ignores the possibility of space colonization and software minds, we find that the expected loss of an existential catastrophe is greater than the value of 10^18 human lives. This implies that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one millionth of one percentage point is at least ten times the value of a billion human lives. The more technologically comprehensive estimate of 1054 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 1052 lives of ordinary length) makes the same point even more starkly. Even if we give this allegedly lower bound on the cumulative output potential of a technologically mature civilization a mere 1% chance of being correct, we find that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one billionth of one billionth of one percentage point is worth a hundred billion times as much as a billion human lives. One might consequently argue that even the tiniest reduction of existential risk has an expected value greater than that of the definite provision of any “ordinary” good, such as the direct benefit of saving 1 billion lives. And, further, that the absolute value of the indirect effect of saving 1 billion lives on the total cumulative amount of existential risk—positive or negative—is almost certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13] </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Integration and public funding key is widespread space travel**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **ISU 8**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">International Space University GREAT EXPECTATIONS: An Assessment of the Potential for Suborbital Transportation Masters Report 2008 (</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://texasspacealliance.org/docs/ISU-Masters08-GreatExpectations-Report.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The question then remains: will private investment and pubic-private partnerships be enough to create the infrastructure required for viable PTP suborbital transportation? Only time will tell, but if history is any indication, it will take significant public funding to develop the network of spaceports that would function similar to the world’s current network of airports. Moreover, the ability to use the existing airport infrastructure could be a key in developing PTP suborbital travel, but will be limited to specific spacecraft designs that are suitable to existing airport infrastructure.For the industry to be sustainable there will be the need to integrate space vehicle operations with traditional air traffic operations in a seamless manner. The FAA proposed concept of operations for Space and Air Traffic Management System is a step in the right direction. Although its provisions as currently stated will be insufficient to handle full fledged PTP suborbital transportation (as it appears to be more geared towards traditional space operations and space tourism), it will nonetheless be very useful at the nascent stage of the industry when the reliability levels of the vehicles are yet to be fully ascertained. The rules and procedures to be adopted will depend on the characteristics of the vehicle with respect to ATC clearances. It is hoped, however, that the ultimate vehicle will be one that will be more responsive to ATC clearance (notably, horizontal take off and powered reentry and landing). STM as a means of tracking objects in space would be necessary to ensure a safe flight path for the vehicles. This would have to depend on national or international arrangements to provide space surveillance capability which at present is possessed by only a few nations.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **cost reduction jumpstarts the space industry, causes settlement and exploration**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Collins and Autino 10)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Patrick Collins (exceptionally well known and respected authority on space economics, space tourism, reusable launch vehicles, and space solar power), and Adriano Autino (prolific science and space writer/lecturer for leading magazines, journals, and space advocate organizations), Acta Astronautica, July 2010, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace”, accessed August 24, 2011, Volume 66, Issues 11-12, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576509004512]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Costs for the development of low-cost orbital passenger transportation systems are of the order of 10 billion Euros [7–9]. Even 10 times this amount would be less than 5 years of space agencies' current budgets. The economic benefits seem sure to greatly outweigh the cost, due to the much larger commercial markets that would be created as a result, in contrast to the very small markets created with 1 trillion Euro-equivalents invested in satellite and launch vehicle manufacturing to date.That is, there seem to be no technical reasons why rapid growth of space travel services could not be realised: the technology has existed for decades, and companies wishing to develop vehicles are hampered by only one obstacle, which is the easiest for governments to solve—lack of funds. Hence the rest of this paper assumes that over coming decades households will start to purchase space ﬂight services, which will grow to reach 5 million passengers/year, out of a worldwide middle-class population of more than 2 billion people, a few decades from now.Starting from today, in order to achieve the scale of activity shown in Fig. 1 over the next 30 years, government funding equivalent to about 10% of space agencies' budgets, or some 2 billion Euros/year would probably suffice to stimulate private investment in reusable orbital passenger vehicle manufacturing and operations. Thereafter most of the funding would come from private companies, just as airline and hotel companies finance their own growth today. 1.1. Implications of launch cost reduction Reducing the cost of space travel to 1% of existing launch vehicles' costs, in combination with the growth of a new consumer service market in space, would greatly aid the growth of many commercial space activities, thereby creating numerous new business opportunities both on Earth and in space. This process is already at work on a small scale in relation to sub-orbital ﬂight services: in addition to a large number of travel companies acting as agents for sub-orbital ﬂights (including JTB, the largest travel company in Japan), Zero-G Corporation supplies parabolic ﬂight services, Bigelow Aerospace is developing the first space hotel, Spaceport Associates advises on spaceport design, Orbital Outfitters Inc. supplies customised ﬂight suits, spaceports are being developed in several places, and several support organisations have been established. All of this activity is occurring some years before the first high-priced services even start, so a much wider range of different space travel-related businesses are sure to grow in future. In the case of orbital services there will be an even wider range of companies with much larger revenues, including companies supplying various services to orbiting hotels. These will include services which terrestrial hotels typically purchase today, such as catering, cleaning, accounting, entertainment, plus such additional services as space-based window maintenance, air supply, solargenerated electricity, water supply, waste disposal services, and others. As activities in orbit expand progressively, they could grow to include use of materials extracted from the Moon and near-Earth asteroids and cometoids, of which the potential has been researched for several decades [11]. Due to the much higher cost of activities in orbit than on the surface of the Earth, orbiting hotels seem likely to create the first market for non-terrestrial materials like ice, water, oxygen and hydrogen, as discussed in [12]. Another potentially major space-based industry, which has been held back for 40 years by high launch costs, is the supply of solar power from space to Earth. Although the potential of this system was recognised in studies by the US Department of Energy in the late 1970s, and confirmed in the 1990s [13], total funding has remained minimal. However, progress could be rapid once launch costs fall to a few percent of ELV costs [14]. Hence, as passenger space travel activities expand to large scale, a growing range of manufacturing activities in Earth orbit, on the lunar surface and elsewhere could develop spontaneously, driven by entrepreneurial effort to exploit new business opportunities opened up by the growth of new commercial markets in Earth orbit. These will in turn open the door to the large-scale space activities described in [11]. The growth of orbital passenger space travel to several million passengers/year over a few decades would represent a direct commercial turnover of some 100 billion Euros/year. In such a scenario of rapid growth, annual investment in new facilities, research and development might add the same amount again. Indeed, having reached such a scale, there would be no foreseeable limit to further growth—in particular it need not be limited, like terrestrial activities, by environmental or political constraints. Quite apart from the numerous opportunities which such a scenario offers for growth of the space industry, it also offers great potential benefits for humanity, in several different fields, as discussed in turn in the following. 2. Employment In most countries, most of the population do not have economically significant land holdings, and so employment is the economic basis of social life, providing income and enabling people to have stable family lives. The high level of unemployment in most countries today is therefore not only wasteful, it also causes widespread poverty and unhappiness, and is socially damaging, creating further problems for the future. One reason for investing in the development of passenger space travel, therefore, is that it could create major new fields of employment, capable of growing as far into the future as we can see. As of 2001, the hotel, catering and tourism sector was estimated to employ 60 million people world-wide, or 3% of the global workforce, and 6% of Europeans [15]. Hence we can estimate that the passenger air travel industry, including airlines, airports, hotels and other tourismrelated work, indirectly employs 10–20 times the number of people employed in aircraft manufacturing alone. Likewise, passenger space travel services could presumably create employment many times that in launch vehicle manufacturing—in vehicle operations and maintenance, at spaceports, in orbiting hotels, in many companies supplying these, in services such as staff training, certification and insurance, and in a growing range of related businesses. This possibility is particularly valuable because high unemployment, both in richer and poorer countries, has been the major economic problem throughout the world for decades. Consequently the growth of such a major new market for advanced aerospace technology and services seems highly desirable, as discussed further in [16]. By contrast, in recent years employment in the traditional space industry in USA and Europe has been shrinking fast: a 2003 report by the US Federal Aviation Administration stated that employment in launch vehicle manufacturing and services fell from 28,617 in 1999 to 4828 in 2002, while employment in satellite manufacturing fell from 57,372 to 31,262 [17]. Likewise, European space industry employment fell by 20% from 1995 to 2005; the major space engineering company Astrium cut 3300 staff from 2003 through 2006; and in 2005 alone, European prime contractors cut 13.5% of their staff or some 2400 people [18]. Unfortunately, the probability of space industry employment recovering soon is low, because satellite manufacturing and launch services face both low demand and rapidly growing competition from India and China, where costs are significantly lower. It is therefore positively bizarre that government policy-makers have declined to even discuss the subject of investing in the development of passenger space travel services, and have permitted no significant investment to date out of the nearly 20 billion Euro-equivalents which space agencies spend every year! This is despite the very positive 1998 NASA report "General Public Space Travel and Tourism" [19], and the NASA-funded 2002 "ASCENT" study referred to above [2,3]. In the capitalist system, companies compete to reduce costs since this directly increases their profits. However, reducing the number of employees through improving productivity raises unemployment, except to the extent that new jobs are created in new and growing industries. In an economy with a lack of new industries, increasing so-called "economic efficiency" creates unemployment, which is a social cost. In this situation, governments concerned for public welfare should either increase the rate of creation of new industries, and/or slow the elimination of jobs, at least until the growth of new industries revives, or other desirable counter-measures, such as new social arrangements, are introduced. These may include more leisure time, job-sharing, and other policies designed to prevent the growth of a permanent "under-class" of unemployed and "working poor"—a development which would pose a major threat to western civilisation. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Settlement feasible - exponential tech progress**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(David 05)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Leonard David (Senior Space Writer), Space, February 23, 2005, " Space Colonization: The Quiet Revolution", accessed September 21, 2011, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.space.com/813-space-colonization-quiet-revolution.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Advances in such areas as propulsion, power, using space resources, and giving other worlds a planetary makeover through terraforming -- along with public space travel -- are hastening the day of space colonization. Backing that view is Eric Rice, chair of a symposium on space colonization held at STAIF this year. Rice is leader of an American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) technical committee that focuses on space colonization issues. "There are so many things underway now that relate to space colonization. The International Space Station is part of this too, as well as the long-term potential for terraforming Mars into another planet for humans to live on," Rice told SPACE.com. Rice said that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">the growing business of public space tourism "is really the spirit of colonization."</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The giggle factor of citizen space travelers is totally gone, he said. Part of that "de-giggling", Rice said, stems from last year's set of flights by SpaceShipOne. Then there's the work of Las Vegas, Nevada entrepreneur Robert Bigelow in fabricating inflatable space modules to be planted in Earth orbit. Also the pay-for-a-seat travels to the space station of Dennis Tito and Mark Shuttleworth in past years are milestones along the route, he added. Lastly, toss in numbers of firms and organizations now busy making space tourism a growing profitable concern. It all adds up to "a quiet revolution," Rice said. Exponential trajectory The prognosis for space colonization is good, said Edward McCullough, principal scientist for The Boeing Company in Huntington Beach, California. He pointed to numbers of technologies that are on exponential growth curves - that is, showing signs of increasing rapid growth. "During the last half of the 20th century, a host of technologies and disciplines which had witnessed millennia of slow or no growth...suddenly went exponential," McCullough reported at the STAIF meeting. McCullough pointed to photography, chemistry and quantum mechanics that have combined to produce a new industrial revolution. Electrical and mechanical engineering are on courses that appear to indicate unbounded exponential improvement. Delving into the structure of DNA has spurred a better understanding of the cellular processes. The human genome has been sequenced and micro biomechanics has taken off, he said. Furthermore, the centuries old technology of printing has been extended to three dimensions with inks of polymers, ceramics, wood and metals.</span>






**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.5pt;">Plan</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Thus the plan:**</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in domestic space launch sites.**</span>












**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.5pt;">Solvency</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **The space launch industry is marked by uncertainty, mistrust, and lack of launch capacity**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **(Ben-Ari et al, Senior Fellow at CSIS, 10)**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Guy Ben-Ari**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> (deputy director and senior fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Brian Green (director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis), Joshua Hartman (s a Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program), Gary Powell (Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Stephanie Sanok (Senior fellow at CSIS), Tara Callahan, Lindsey Ohmit, Thomas Patterson, Gregory Sanders, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CSIS</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">July 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">, "National Security and the Commercial Space Sector", accessed July 27, 2012, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">C. 1. Lack of reliable access to launch suppliers effectively reduces launch supply. While manufacturing capacity of launch vehicles may be ample, commercial satellite launch customers have a limited range of launch options available. Commercial access to U.S. and Chinese launch services are constrained, leaving Arianespace and ILS as the principal options. In the future, Sea Launch may be a viable option if it emerges from bankruptcy successfully. SpaceX, with the recent successful launch of a Falcon 9 medium-launch vehicle, may also become a viable option—in the long- term, but not now or in the near future. U.S. launch vehicles have an extraordinary record of reliability during the past decade. This has resulted in part from the national security community’s priority on and continued investment in mission assurance. Not surprisingly, given the dominance of the U.S. government as a launch customer and the U.S. government’s focus on mission assurance, the systems and processes for U.S. launch range and operations have been primarily developed around government requirements and culture. Many believe that this has reduced access to launch ranges and added schedule risk for commercial launch customers. These effects can be seen in launch scheduling, the current practice of which often prevents commercial entities from establishing reliable launch dates. The DoD now reserves a launch slot with ULA 30 to 36 months before the launch is scheduled. Typical commercial customers place launch reservations 24 months ahead of the anticipated launch date. Thus, ULA is fully booked for the next three years with government launches, and commercial customers seeking a launch slot are shut out. DoD launches are often delayed, but program offices often release those launch slots very late—a few months before the scheduled launch—thus not allowing commercial customers to take advantage of the newly opened launch slot and leaving valuable launch opportunities unused. As government launch needs change, ULA is provided incentives to meet those changing needs before it meets the needs of any commercial customer. DoD also tends to view specific launch vehicles as committed to a specific DoD launch; when program delays occur, those specific launch vehicles are often not released for commercial use. Finally, commercial launches have sometimes lost launch slots because launch schedules for higher-priority government payloads changed. As a consequence, commercial satellite launch consumers currently have little confidence in their access to U.S. launch or in their ability to hold launch dates even if manifested. Several senior leaders among commercial launch customers and launch providers contend that government and ULA credibility with commercial launch customers is very low. Some suggest that neither the government nor ULA has much incentive to change their practices. Accommodating commercial satellite launches may detract from DoD’s focus on and ULAs support of mission assurance, and some interviewees maintain that the government-ULA contract provides disincentives for ULA to support commercial launches.’4 The lack of structured, constructive dialogue between commercial operators and DoD launch range operators makes addressing some of these problems difficult.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Plan solves hegemony and is necessary to solve regulatory problems that will doom the industry**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Winters 11**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Nathan J. Winters, Nathan J. Winters Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS Naval Postgraduate School, Enabling the Commercial Space Transportation Industry at the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport September 2011(</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA551942]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">The MARS needs to continue to distinguish itself as a leading spaceport. Virginia has led the way in promoting its space industry and will need to continue these efforts. The symbiotic relationship between the MARS and NASA’s WFF will need to continue to evolve. With the declining NASA budget a thriving commercial space industry will be vital in reducing operating costs and ensuring stability and growth during a time of Federal downsizing. NASA has studied the possibility of closing WFF several times. This closure has been prevented by strong political opposition. It is in the best interests of the MARS, NASA, and the commercial space industry to ensure each other’s success and continued utilization of WFF. Since NASA awarded Virginia-based Orbital Science Corporation a CRS contract, a consistent line of funding is in place that must be utilized to the greatest extent possible. NASA will be required to purchase, at a minimum, another 27 cargo flights and 10 crew flights through 2020. The existing contract and the possible future NASA contracts should be used as the anchor tenant to attract more business. The U.S. Air Force Operationally Responsive Space Office has launched four spacecraft from Wallops with the possibility for more launches in the future. This relationship should continue to be developed and MARS promoted as a responsive, lean launch provider. While the orbital market has a much higher entry cost than the sub-orbital market, continued demonstration of MARS as a lean launch provider could attract emerging space companies like Bigelow Aerospace. The sub-orbital market should take advantage of WFF’s existing airport and infrastructure to perform sub-orbital flights. The MARS’ unique location on the East Coast and near the nation’s capital, and other population centers, places it in a key position to offer sub-orbital flights. The sub-orbital tourism, point-to-point, and research markets are likely to be the highest in demand and should be targeted for future growth. Wallops has a long history of suborbital research and could expand this field to include more commercial launches. FAA’s commercial space transportation regulations are in their infancy but are still minimal. The NASA regulations while more mature and far more complex are being adapted for commercial usage. NASA plans on leaving all commercial space licensing to the FAA. In the future even a NASA mission launched from a Federal range would require an FAA license. NASA is likely to still have their own safety requirements that will be redundant to FAA requirements. A key part to enabling commercial space transportation industry at MARS is reducing the uncertainty about how NASA and FAA regulations will coexist. The nascent commercial space transportation industry has been enabled by NASA investment in COTS, CCDev and CRS. This, along with the FAA’s matching grants and other Federal and state incentives, has helped jump-start the commercial space transportation industry. The possible roadblocks of excessive regulation have been minimized by the FAA’s limited Final Rule on Crew and Space Flight Requirements and the CSLAA. By not certifying vehicles as safe, the FAA acknowledges that passengers will fly at their own risk. While this congressional “hands off” mandate will encourage research and development in this emerging market it could backfire if an accident occurs that results in more strict regulation. After December 23, 2012 the FAA may propose new regulations on the commercial space industry without restriction. The amount of regulations will be dependent upon how much the commercial space industry has matured. Industry lessons learned and best practices are needed to determine future requirements. The FAA has already held public meetings to address many of the concerns facing this emerging market. Specifically, the deconfliction of FAA and NASA regulations will be necessary to prevent duplication of efforts. Both regulators need to ensure their requirements are compatible or complementary for both government and non-government organizations. The development of a robust commercial space transportation industry is important to the U. S. and its National Security in many different areas. Economically, a strong space industry and a vigorous space launch schedule will promote space jobs and programs to stay in the U. S. A larger and more experienced space industrial base will greatly benefit National Security Space programs and develop national capabilities in new technical realms. Another important impact to National Security Space is the required expansion and growth of the space transportation infrastructure. Similar to the railroads, interstate highways, and airports of today a space transportation infrastructure will need to be developed and will be a requirement for future growth and expansion. Without this infrastructure National Security Space will be required to maintain its own aging infrastructure and would not be able to benefit from new construction, technology and innovations that the commercial space sector would develop on its own. In a shrinking Global economy the commercial space industry will be vital in maintaining the competitive edge in, and our access to, space. The more developed the U.S. commercial space industry is the more likely it will be able to adapt and overcome any challenges it is faced with. It is in the U.S. Government’s strategic interest to remain a leader in the Global space transportation industry. This emerging commercial space transportation market has the potential to become a thriving industry with proper investment and minimal regulation.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Congress key to spaceports which are key to settlement – attract capital, technology and human resources.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Mineiro ‘8**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">Michael Mineiro - – Legal counsel to NOAA -- Boren National Security Fellow alumnus with unique expertise on China and Chinese outer space law and policy. Currently serves as an international and interagency affairs specialist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service (NESDIS). A former guest Lecturer at the International Space University. Doctoral Boeing Fellow of Air & Space Law at McGill University LAW AND REGULATION GOVERNING U.S. COMMERCIAL SPACEPORTS: LICENSING, LIABILITY, AND LEGAL CHALLENGES- The Journal of Air Law and Commerce 73 no4 759-805 Fall 2008 Ebsco 9/19/12 WE DO NOT ADVOCATE THE GENDER LANGUAGE IN OUR EVIDENCE – </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Congress needs to take the necessary steps to identify and resolve legal and political challenges inhibiting the growth of commercial spaceports. Not addressing these challenges and allowing commercial spaceports to falter would undermine the economic and national security of the United States. Alternatively, resolving these challenges and supporting commercial spaceport development at this nascent stage will position the United States as a world leader in commercial space transportation infrastructure, capable of attracting entrepreneurship, capital, technology, and human resources. One can imagine a future not so far away where spaceports are centers of great economic activity, supporting passenger flights around the world, into orbit, or to celestial bodies. Mankind is reaching out to the stars, and spaceports are where our first steps are being taken. By fostering the development of commercial spaceports today, we build a road to tomorrow.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **USFG is key –**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **1) orbital vehicles**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Handberg 8** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, “State Spaceports: Road to the Economic Future or Hype? State Governments and Predictions of the Future of Technology” presented at the annual meeting of the APSA 2008 Annual Meeting, Hynes Convention Center, Boston, Massachusetts, Aug 28, 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/7/9/5/6/p279568_index.html?phpsessid=627c885416f176d9758e5500d9b1527f]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Space policy retains a peculiar character to it in that the rhetoric is often frontier analogy driven but the economic realities remain often government funded development with the private sector taking over once developmental success has been acquired. This means that the industry is dominated by the desires of the federal government whether the military or civilian, meaning NASA. This mind set reflects the early growth of the field in a time when national security needs drove what was done in terms of space activities. Over the years, that pattern has broken down with regards to many space applications especially in communications and navigation. Space launch however retains that imprint of the national security state. The Ansari X-Prize was a deliberate attempt to break the cycle of government control but that was only partially successful. Sending humans to orbit still remains strictly a government activity, suborbital is now open to private vendors but efforts at orbital flight remain more distant even though there was an earlier America Prize suggested for encouraging efforts at reaching orbit and back similar to the Ansari X-Prize with the prize being set at $50 million. 25 What appears to be occurring is that a separation is growing between the older spaceports located on federal spaceports and the newer proposals. All three, California, Florida and Virginia, remain focused on orbital flights using ELVs presently but are open to RLVs once those are developed especially in the case of Florida with shuttle shutdown looming. That pathway is only possible with the cooperation of the operators of the federal spaceports a reality which remains a hindrance but accommodations are being made. By focusing on processing facilities, the state entities provide a service that lessens the burden on the federal operator. The newer spaceports are more heavily invested in the space tourism aspect of commercial space activities which poses a dilemma. The dilemma is a simple one, what if RLVs do not become economically successful, remember their client base is the private sector, interested in making a profit. Given the cost of purchasing a flight ($200,000 presently), how large the market will be is unclear once you get past the optimism-hype. This reality makes the state spaceport arena more problematic than appears at first glance. 26 Several initiatives are premised on a specific vehicle coming to fruition such as the Rocketplane in Oklahoma; others are in effect being done on spec with no actual tenant identified. As Florida has already found with its RLV storage hanger, that leaves a state in the situation that there is no occupant given the paucity of available tenants. As was mentioned earlier, the death of the VentureStar meant that the many states lost their justification for pursuing a spaceport so their pursuit slackened and in some cases went dormant. The continuing issues with SpaceX regarding successful flight is particularly disappointing for Florida since they have in effect bet their money on the Falcon 1 and its successor the Falcon 9 being successful and being used to supply the ISS. What is more troubling for state spaceport initiatives is the reality that there are international competitors for the opportunity to be the launch port for RLV vehicles. Singapore and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates have been put forth as launch points for the Explorer vehicle, a derivative of the “Cosmopolis XXI (C-21), a multi-passenger space plane designed by Russia's Myasishchev Design Bureau (MDB).” 27 What is more important is that the choice was made among ten different sites including several in the United States. The Singapore spaceport appears to be lagging while the site in the UAE appears more substantial. The economics are that the UAE site is closer to potential customers and is less difficult to enter than the United States with its restrictions on foreign travelers. What is more critical here is recognition that U.S. state spaceports are competing clearly in an international market for a limited roster of potential flight partners. Virginia Galactic is rumored to be interested in both locations especially Singapore but is deferring any immediate plans to build facilities – this reflects the fact that development of SpaceShipTwo has been delayed by an accident during development that resulted in three deaths. The Explorer vehicle was not part of the Ansari X-Prize competition; in fact, the Ansari family is invested in the project after helping sponsor the X-Prize. What this does is further heighten the competition between space tourism vendors and states who wish to service them as spaceports. Even in Europe, there is interest in moving into the spaceport business in support of space tourism in the form of Spaceport Sweden. 28 Even more troubling from a state perspective is the fact that suborbital flight as presently conceived is a dead end in that those flights do not get you to orbit in the end. Reaching orbit remains a much more difficult feat given the realities and physics of space launch. A RLV has to overcome weight issues relative to applicable lift capacity. Those weight issues in the end led to the X-33 cancelation; NASA evaluations were either negative or inconclusive whether the weight issue inherent in a single stage to orbit vehicle could be overcome. Making it two stage to orbit is one option but using a lift plane to be the first stage runs into weight and safety questions including re-entry. If reaching orbit was easy; then it would be done already commercially. Presently, all commercially viable space industries operate on the assumption that you do not have to bring the payload back to earth safely. Once the payload’s useful life is exhausted, you either lift it higher into a parking orbit or you allow it either to slowly descend into the atmosphere to be destroyed or you eject it out of orbit in a controlled crash as it were. The result is a major problem with space debris but that is strictly an international level issue; spaceports are becoming increasingly attractive for a number of states as symbols of technological progress and potential economic growth. Space remains glamorous which draws attention but the economics remain much more daunting than the rhetoric would lead one to understand. There is likely to be a continuing market for suborbital tourism but whether that will grow sufficiently in the United States to justify expanded state investment in spaceports is unclear. The original state spaceports, California, Florida, Virginia and Alaska, arose out of the perceived need for more accessible launch facilities for ELVs. The initial focus was upon small launch vehicles, a market that has not met expectations. The first three also have the potential for conducting human spaceflight in the form of RLVs while Alaska’s future is more problematic since it launches government payloads which are more a function of their present political clout than any economic incentive. However, having a useful facility regardless of who funded it originally gives a state an asset that can be exploited as Alaska remains a player. The newer spaceports such as Spaceport America and the Oklahoma Spaceport also have economic potential since they have launch vendors already on board but in the former case, international competition may reduce the economic impact as Virgin Galactic opens up other launch sites closer to its customer base. Other spaceports such as Spaceport Sheboygan have potential as economic incubators fostering industries related to space activities. Launching vehicles will likely remain a lesser priority. There exists no easy road to success for state spaceports because as was clear a decade ago; too much relies on others to develop the technologies that will facilitate reliable and cheaper space launch whether human spaceflight or payloads of applications. The legislative obstacles to state spaceports have been significantly reduced in impact but the spaceports still operate in an environment controlled by the federal government because ultimately that is what international law and practice demand. Private individuals and ventures all enter space with consent of a national government. Other governments remain reluctant to change that pattern since they, as the United States does, remain very much aware of the military potential of space launch regardless of its ostensible peaceful purpose</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **2) Perception**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Webber 3**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Derek, “Lessons of ASCENT - Messages for Industry, the Federal Government and Spaceport Authorities” September 2003 Presented at Space 2003, Long Beach, CA, Spaceport Associates, Washington DC * AIAA Member, Director, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/lessons_of_ascent_messages_for_industry_the_federal_government_and_spaceport_authorities.shtml]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">MGE)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Final Report of the President's Commission on the Future of the US Aerospace Industry came out with some very strong recommendations. And it did so at a time when the country is re-evaluating its commitment to the further exploration and development of space, in the aftermath of the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia. It is not necessary to repeat here all of the recommendations of the Commission. But instead it is worthwhile to pick out those aspects that derive directly from the ASCENT work, and of which NASA and other government agencies associated with the development of space, need to be aware. The country has already lost its leadership in space. US industry has only 40% of global launches today, and the ASCENT Study indicates that unless there is a shift in focus and priorities, then the figure will be down to 25% twenty years from now. There are ramifications both in employment and in the education of our future generations. Even the financially stretched Russian industry is doing better in terms of market share, and is already taking the initiative in the early development of the new commercial opportunities represented by public space travel. The Europeans are gearing up to use the Russian Soyuz system capabilities for their own purposes from the European launch facilities at Kourou. It seems clear that the Chinese will not be far behind, with imminent launches of their first Shenzhou crews. The message for the US government is therefore no less than a need to seek to bring about a reversal of the relative decline of the US as a space power. One part of doing this is to remove some of the impediments for foreign customers to fly their payloads on US launch vehicles. Another way is by taking steps to encourage those infrastructure-and regulatory- developments that will facilitate the growth of a domestic space tourism industry. In this context one must include both sub-orbital and orbital developments and facilities, although the ASCENT Study focused on the latter. The States seem so far to be way ahead of the Federal government in this regard. Many States are exploring the possibilities of having spaceports within their territories to help in their employment and other needs. The Federal government should play its part in facilitating these first steps as the spaceports are being established. The commercial development of space, and its next logical step of space tourism, is the most American of endeavors: it is a way to make money out of people being free and having fun. Of course, down the road, there are other benefits for the nation, and even the world. But at least the ASCENT Study makes abundantly clear that the US cannot expect to rank itself amongst the world's most thriving civilizations if it does not continue on the road that it set for itself at the start of the space age. The more entrepreneurial parts of the commercial sector have seized the message already, and soon we shall see the first sub-orbital space tourists follow in Alan Shepard's footsteps. The Federal government must also play its part. NASA can be directed to work with these new realities. The Aerospace Commission identifies public space travel as an important new sector "??.that holds the potential for increasing launch demand and improvements in space launch reliability and reusability?.?? and would ultimately support a robust space transportation industry with "airline-like operations"?..?" Perhaps the best way for this redirection of NASA to take effect would be in terms of budgetary resource re-allocation. As was discussed earlier, there is no justification for significant expenditures to be taking place on ideas and concepts that have no likelihood of taking place within the next twenty years. The ASCENT Study provides the guidance for this necessary resource reallocation, as discussed earlier in the paper. By the same token, there is a need to actively support initiatives to bring about the new industry of space tourism. At the very least, NASA needs to create a small Office of Public Space Travel to facilitate the needs of the emerging sector, and to coordinate those needs with the Administration's other long-term plans. A good example of an early role for such an office would be an involvement in the OSP architecture design discussions to find ways to ensure that the resulting OSP vehicle design can play a useful part in the future of orbital space tourism. This can be the way in which the US takes back the lead from the Russians in this area, and/or prevents the Chinese from taking this initiative of providing trips for American space tourists. The ASCENT Study makes it very clear what the implications will be if the US does not develop an RLV that can eventually be used for public space travel purposes. The OSP is the best shot we have at this for the short term. </span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **3) Integration into air traffic control**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **ISU 8**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">International Space University GREAT EXPECTATIONS: An Assessment of the Potential for Suborbital Transportation Masters Report 2008 (</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://texasspacealliance.org/docs/ISU-Masters08-GreatExpectations-Report.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Following the first successful flight of an airplane in 1903, the focus of the aviation industry was on research and development of aircraft technology, not on the development of airfields. A rudimentary set of airfields was established during World War I, but the significant development of airfields in the United States was driven by commerce, such as the need for airmail flights to have refueling and mail drop off sites in various locations. The aviation industry began growing rapidly in the late 1920’s, which then drove the need for improved infrastructure and regulatory frameworks, including licensing. As passenger travel became more commonplace and high capacity aircraft emerged (such as the Boeing 747), the construction of larger airports became a requirement as well as the expansion and improvement of existing airports. This was expensive and required a great deal of government support. Some key dates and events in the development of the airport infrastructure in the United States are presented below in Table 5-1. It is important to note that the overall development of the airport system in the United States was largely reactive, rather than proactive. This was particularly true in the technical and legal regimes. Similarly, spaceport development will likely be driven by the development of the space vehicle industry; however, the additional challenge of integrating spacecraft traffic and infrastructure requirements with that of existing air traffic and infrastructure exists. This will be particularly important for the development of PTP transportation, and unlike the history of airport development, the development and integration of spaceports may require proactive initiatives with regard to legal and technical challenges. The costs of developing the infrastructure to support a growing space industry, particularly that of a PTP suborbital industry, may also have some parallels to early airport development. With respect to demand and public safety, additional construction and improvement of the airport infrastructure was required as the aviation industry evolved. Such improvements were quite expensive and therefore required government support, such as the U.S. Airport and Airway Development Act. Similarly, spaceport construction and infrastructure costs are high, and such ventures often require support from the government. Many spaceports are already supported at least in part by public funding. A selection of spaceports currently under development for suborbital space tourism, their estimated development costs, and sources of funding are shown in Table 5-2 below: As the example of Spaceport America has shown recently, garnering public support and funds can be a challenge (Medina, 2008). Development of a network of spaceports, or integration into the existing airport system, will be an expensive and challenging endeavor. Some savings may be made by using existing facilities, such as decommissioned military bases, and their runways, or by using existing rocket range facilities. Europe in particular, has large numbers of long runways left over from the cold war which would be capable of supporting some suborbital concepts. It may be viable to develop a purpose built spaceport without public funding, especially if it is designed for tourism purposes other than PTP transportation. This is the case with the joint ventures creating the tourism infrastructure for Spaceport Sweden in Kiruna (Spaceport Sweden, 2008).</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]