[[toc]]
=Negative= 
==Elections== 

**Obama will win in a close election because of economic job reports – but continued perception is key**
**Parnes 8/4** (Amie, Staff Writer for The Hill, “As jobs picture improves, so do Obama reelection chances”, http://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/242205-as-jobs-picture-improves-so-do-obamas-chances)

President Obama’s reelection got a boost Friday from the best monthly jobs report on the U.S. economy since February, something that gave his campaign team more fuel in making their argument that the economy is making steady progress. While the good news was coupled with an uptick in the unemployment rate to 8.3 percent, analysts predicted that if the job numbers—however murky—are maintained over the next several months, Obama is likely to win reelection in November against his opponent Mitt Romney. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday the economy added 163,000 jobs in July, more than expected and more than the economy added in May and June combined. To be sure, no sitting president since Franklin Roosevelt has won reelection with a jobless rate above 8 percent, which poses a significant problem for Obama. A recent poll for The Hill shows that 53 percent believe that Obama has "taken the wrong actions and slowed the recovery down." After a series of bad jobs reports for Team Obama, A New York Times/CBS poll last month also showed that two out three registered voters believes the president's policies contributed in some way to the economic downturn. That said, Friday’s numbers are “definitely helpful” to the Obama campaign, said Joel Prakken, a senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers. “Numbers like this for the next three months, will definitely be an encouraging sign,” Prakken said. Political observers agreed with that assessment. While the reviews of the jobs numbers were mixed on Friday, giving a modest advantage to Obama, they point to the market’s reaction on Friday: stocks surged on the news, adding to the sense that the jobs report for once has given Obama’s campaign momentum. “The markets certainly thought the jobs numbers were good,” said Cal Jillson, a professor of political science at Southern Methodist University, adding that the jobs numbers “signal the slowdown is not worsening and that the economy may be picking up a little. “If these kinds of jobs numbers continue, it’s good but not great for Obama… but it’s still positive news for him,” Jillson said. Discussing the jobs numbers on Friday, Obama took the same cautious approach he has used with both positive and negative reports in recent months, emphasizing that more work needs to be done. “Let’s acknowledge we’ve still got too many folks out there who are looking for work,” the president said at the White House. “We’ve got more work to do on their behalf, not only to reclaim the kind of financial security that too many Americans have felt was slipping away from them for too long.” At the same time, Obama heralded the numbers, which he said were part of the 4.5 million new jobs created over the last 29 months and 1.1 million new jobs this year. “These are our neighbors, family members finding work and the security that comes with work,” he said, standing in a room before middle class workers. Republicans on Friday were quick to blast Obama for not having a plan to improve the economy, focusing instead on the higher unemployment rate. “Today’s increase in the unemployment rate is a hammer blow to struggling middle class families,” Romney said in a statement. “We’ve now gone 42 consecutive months with the unemployment rate above eight percent. Middle class Americans deserve better, and I believe America can do better.” Kirsten Kukowski, a spokesperson for the Republican National Committee, acknowledged that, “any jobs created is a positive and a step in the right direction.” But Kukowski said that expectations have been set low for Obama “because the jobs numbers have been so bad.” “The fact is, that the unemployment number is ticking up and obviously we’re seeing so many people leave the job force,” Kukowski said. “We’re nowhere near where we need to be.” Tara Sinclair, an associate professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, said the mixed nature of the jobs report made it easy for both sides to have viable talking points. Sinclair said the numbers on Friday were based on two separate surveys, which happen to disagree. One survey tracks employers while the other survey is based on data from households. “There are reasons to look at both of them and take the other with a grain of salt,” Sinclair said. Sinclair said Friday’s report is “surprisingly good relative to what we were expecting. “But even though they’re better than we were expecting, it isn’t a ‘Yay! Bring out the ticker tape.’”

**Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they fear wasteful planning and don’t see the upside.**
**Orski ‘12**
Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge. Unlike traditional utilities, roads and bridges have no rate payers to fall back on. Politicians and the public seem to attach a low priority to fixing aging transportation infrastructure and this translates into a lack of support for raising fuel taxes or imposing tolls. Investment in infrastructure did not even make the top ten list of public priorities in the latest Pew Research Center survey of domestic concerns. Calls by two congressionally mandated commissions to vastly increase transportation infrastructure spending have gone ignored. So have repeated pleas by advocacy groups such as Building America’s Future, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the University of Virginia’s Miller Center. Nor has the need to increase federal spending on infrastructure come up in the numerous policy debates held by the Republican presidential candidates. Even President Obama seems to have lost his former fervor for this issue. In his last State-of-the-Union message he made only a perfunctory reference to "rebuilding roads and bridges." High-speed rail and an infrastructure bank, two of the President’s past favorites, were not even mentioned. Why pleas to increase infrastructure funding fall on deaf ears There are various theories why appeals to increase infrastructure spending do not resonate with the public. One widely held view is that people simply do not trust the federal government to spend their tax dollars wisely. As proof, evidence is cited that a great majority of state and local transportation ballot measures do get passed, because voters know precisely where their tax money is going. No doubt there is much truth to that. Indeed, thanks to local funding initiatives and the use of tolling, state transportation agencies are becoming increasingly more self-reliant and less dependent on federal funding Another explanation, and one that I find highly plausible, has been offered by Charles Lane, editorial writer for the Washington Post. Wrote Lane in an October 31, 2011 Washington Post column, "How come my family and I traveled thousands of miles on both the east and west coast last summer without actually seeing any crumbling roads or airports? On the whole, the highways and byways were clean, safe and did not remind me of the Third World countries. ... Should I believe the pundits or my own eyes?" asked Lane ("The U.S. infrastructure argument that crumbles upon examination"). Along with Lane, I think the American public is skeptical about alarmist claims of "crumbling infrastructure" because they see no evidence of it around them. State DOTs and transit authorities take great pride in maintaining their systems in good condition and, by and large, they succeed in doing a good job of it. Potholes are rare, transit buses and trains seldom break down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

**Romney election results in Iran strikes --- Obama reelection defuses the situation with diplomacy**
**Daily Kos**, 4/16/2012 (President Obama versus Romney on Iran, p. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran]]</span>)
3. Approach to foreign policy: Romney says he will “not apologize” for America and advocates a return to the Bush cowboy “my way or the highway” approach to dealing with other nations. When John Bolton is an endorser, that scares me. To me, however the biggest contrast is their approach to Iran. Binyamin Netanyahu by all accounts is a hawk who is pushing the United States to bomb Iran and has been doing so for a long time. He appears to see no need for negotiation. Granted, he has a right to protect his nation if he believes that its under threat. However, we all know how flawed the “intelligence” was for the Iraq war. And its important to let negotiations play out as far as possible before rushing to war, which would have many unintended consequences for years to come. (See the Iraq war). Here’s the big difference. Here’s Netanyahu’s recent response to the ongoing P5+1 talks: http://news.yahoo.com/... Netanyahu -- whose government has not ruled out a preemptive strike on Iranian nuclear facilities -- earlier said however that Tehran had simply bought itself some extra time to comply. "My initial impression is that Iran has been given a 'freebie'," Netanyahu said during talks with visiting US Senator Joe Lieberman, the premier's office reported. "It has got five weeks to continue enrichment without any limitation, any inhibition. I think Iran should take immediate steps to stop all enrichment, take out all enrichment material and dismantle the nuclear facility in Qom," he said. "I believe that the world's greatest practitioner of terrorism must not have the opportunity to develop atomic bombs," he said. Here’s President Obama’s response yesterday to Netanyahu (in a response to a journalist's question) at the press conference in Cartagena: But Obama refuted that statement, saying "The notion that we've given something away or a freebie would indicate that Iran has gotten something." "In fact, they got the toughest sanctions that they're going to be facing coming up in a few months if they don't take advantage of those talks. I hope they do," Obama said. "The clock is ticking and I've been very clear to Iran and our negotiating partners that we're not going to have these talks just drag out in a stalling process," Obama told reporters after an Americas summit in Colombia."But so far at least we haven't given away anything -- other than the opportunity for us to negotiate," he said. Obama in conjunction with world powers is negotiating with Iran, trying to prevent a needless war. You can be sure that Mitt Romney would bow to his buddy Netanyahu and attack Iran. He has previously said “We will not have an inch of difference between ourselves and Israel”. As he also said in a debate, before making any decision regarding Israel, he will call his friend Bibi. Bottom line, if somehow the American people elect Mitt Romney, expect more of the bombastic, Bush cowboy approach to foreign policy with a more than likely bombardment of Iran. If the American people are not fooled by this charlatan and they reelect Barack Obama, he will continue in his measured way to deal with the threats around the world, quietly, through the use of negotiation, and force if absolutely necessary, but only as a last resort, without bragging, and scaring the American people with needless terrorism alerts. 

**Iran strikes fail and trigger US-Iran war**
**Melman**, 11 [Yossi, Haaretz (Israeli newspaper, “Former Mossad Chief: Israel Air Strike on Iran ‘Stupidest Thing I Have Ever Heard,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.haaretz.com/news/diplomacy-defense/former-mossad-chief-israel-air-strike-on-iran-stupidest-thing-i-have-ever-heard-1.360367]]</span>, KHaze]
Dagan emphasized that attacking Iran would be different than Israel's successful air strike on Iraq's nuclear reactor in 1981. Iran has scattered its nuclear facilities in different places around the country, he said, which would make it difficult for Israel to launch an effective attack. According to Dagan, there is proof that Iran has the capability to divert its nuclear activities from place to place in order to take them out of the watchful eye of international supervision and intelligence agencies. No one in Iran would have any problems in building a centrifuge system in a school basement if they wished to, he said. The IAF's abilities are not in doubt, Dagan emphasized, but the doubts relate to the possibilities of completing the mission and reaching all targets. When asked about what would happen in the aftermath of an Israeli attack Dagan said that: "It will be followed by a war with Iran. It is the kind of thing where we know how it starts, but not how it will end." The Iranians have the capability to fire rockets at Israel for a period of months, and Hizbollah could fire tens of thousands of grad rockets and hundreds of long-range missiles, he said. At the same time, Tehran can activate Hamas, and there is also a danger that Syria will join the war, Dagan added. 

**Global nuclear war**
**Hirsch,** 6 [Jorge, Professor of Physics at the University of California-San Diego, “Nuking Iran,” Znet, 4/10, http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]
Iran is likely to respond to any US attack using its considerable missile arsenal against US forces in Iraq and elsewhere in the Persian Gulf. Israel may attempt to stay out of the conflict, it is not clear whether Iran would target Israel in a retaliatory strike but it is certainly possible. If the US attack includes nuclear weapons use against Iranian facilities, as I believe is very likely, rather than deterring Iran it will cause a much more violent response. Iranian military forces and militias are likely to storm into southern Iraq and the US may be forced to use nuclear weapons against them, causing large scale casualties and inflaming the Muslim world. There could be popular uprisings in other countries in the region like Pakistan, and of course a Shiite uprising in Iraq against American occupiers. Finally I would like to discuss the grave consequences to America and the world if the US uses nuclear weapons against Iran. First, the likelihood of terrorist attacks against Americans both on American soil and abroad will be enormously enhanced after these events. And terrorist's attempts to get hold of "loose nukes" and use them against Americans will be enormously incentivized after the US used nuclear weapons against Iran. Second, it will destroy America's position as the leader of the free world. The rest of the world rightly recognizes that nuclear weapons are qualitatively different from all other weapons, and that there is no sharp distinction between small and large nuclear weapons, or between nuclear weapons targeting facilities versus those targeting armies or civilians. It will not condone the breaking of the nuclear taboo in an unprovoked war of aggression against a non-nuclear country, and the US will become a pariah state. Third, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty will cease to exist, and many of its 182 non-nuclear-weapon-country signatories will strive to acquire nuclear weapons as a deterrent to an attack by a nuclear nation. With no longer a taboo against the use of nuclear weapons, any regional conflict may go nuclear and expand into global nuclear war. Nuclear weapons are million-fold more powerful than any other weapon, and the existing nuclear arsenals can obliterate humanity many times over. In the past, global conflicts terminated when one side prevailed. In the next global conflict we will all be gone before anybody has prevailed.

==Spending== 

**Fiscal restraint momentum is gathering now- new legislation can undermine cooperation, undermining the economy.**
**New York Times, 6/10** Push for a Fiscal Pact Picks Up Speed, and Power By JONATHAN WEISMAN Published: June 10, 2012
For two years, backbench senators — some of them freshmen like Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and some of them iconoclasts like Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma — have been meeting off and on to try to find a bipartisan solution to the nation’s fiscal woes. What separated the unannounced Wednesday session, organized by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, from the earlier ones was the collective weight of the participants: the Senate’s No. 2 and No. 3 Democrats, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of New York; the chairman of the Finance Committee, Max Baucus; and the chairman of the Budget Committee, Kent Conrad. The hunt for a way to avert a crisis appears to be quickening — and, significantly, it now includes the people who might be able to make it happen. Senators who have been working fruitlessly on a budget deal since 2010, as the so-called Gang of Eight, say their efforts will get nowhere without help from Congressional leaders, especially the committee chairmen with the expertise to draft legislation. Those people are starting to come on board. “We’re making headway,” Mr. Baucus said cautiously on Thursday, confirming the Wednesday dinner, “but it’s important the Senate does not box itself out with legislation on the floor too quickly.” Republican leaders remain largely on the sideline. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican, applauded what he called “grass roots” negotiations, but conceded that neither he nor other party leaders had been directly involved, aside from efforts to stave off automatic defense cuts. Still, even he is making conciliatory comments on raising taxes, the issue that has kept Republican leaders from the table. The automatic tax increases and spending cuts are products of Washington’s failure to resolve its fiscal straits. Because Republicans could not win enough votes for permanent tax changes in 2001 and 2003, they used parliamentary maneuvers to enact the tax cuts, with an expiration date at the 2010. Rather than reach a permanent resolution then, President Obama and Congressional leaders punted the issue in December 2010 for two more years. The automatic spending cuts were mandated last August as a backup plan if negotiations in Congress on long-term deficit reduction failed. They did. About $100 billion needs to be found to cancel the first round of defense cuts, Mr. Kyl said. “Democrats want taxes to be a part of that,” he said in an interview. “Well, we think that’s a bad idea, but let’s sit down and talk.” With what the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, calls the “fiscal cliff” less than six months away, concern is growing. Last Tuesday, about 35 senators from both parties discussed the problem with the departing president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick, and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William C. Dudley, in a meeting previously reported by Politico. The dinner on Wednesday featured Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, and Robert D. Reischauer, a former Congressional Budget Office director and past president of the Urban Institute. On Monday, Mr. Baucus will deliver a speech to the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington on the path toward a simpler tax code that could generate more revenue. Later in the week, the Senate Finance Committee will meet on a host of tax issues. Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, has begun drafting legislation on entitlements and tax policy that he hopes will be a template for talks in the coming weeks. “There’s broad agreement on platitudes, but we haven’t seen any legislative language,” he said. “What we need now is to start talking about a tangible piece of legislation that people can read, that people can amend, that people can negotiate with.” But senators involved in the negotiations cautioned that a deal remained a ways away. Even as some lawmakers spoke of compromise, Senate Democrats gathered on Thursday with Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, to look over polling on their political strength defending entitlements like Medicare and Social Security. If Democrats head to the ramparts to defend entitlements, Republicans are likely to dig in against revenue increases. “We’ve got a lot of talking to do in the next few months,” said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia. He would not divulge the contents of the talks, saying that even discussing the efforts in public could set them back. The stakes are only now beginning to dawn on lawmakers, several senators said. Critical to the new push was a report last month by the Congressional Budget Office that predicted a recession if Congress allowed all of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire at the same time a host of other tax breaks lapsed and automatic spending cuts went into force. “That’s a big deal,” Mr. Kyl said. “Everybody’s starting to get worried about this, Democrat and Republican.” Mr. Zandi has run numbers on options for heading off a plunge over the cliff while beginning to address the trillion-dollar budget deficit. If nothing is done, several measures taken together would slow economic growth by 4.6 percentage points and thus set off a recession, according to Moody’s Analytics. They include the end of the Bush-era tax cuts, the beginning of the automatic spending cuts, plus an expansion of the alternative minimum tax. They also include the expiration of Mr. Obama’s payroll tax cut and emergency unemployment insurance and cuts to Medicare provider payments. But if the tax cuts are extended for households with incomes below $250,000, Medicare payments remain the same, the alternative minimum tax is kept at bay and the automatic spending cuts are cut in half, the economic hit could be held to 1.5 percentage points. Deficit reduction would be substantial and build confidence, Mr. Zandi said, and if Congress could reach a “grand bargain” on a long-term fiscal path forward, the impact on economic growth would be “huge” because a burst of business confidence in Washington could set off a wave of investment and hiring. Democratic leadership aides said top Democrats like Mr. Schumer had been wary about the negotiations of the Gang of Eight for more than a year, fearing that in their zeal for a deal, freshman Democrats would give away too much on Medicare and Social Security without getting real concessions from Republicans on revenues. But in recent weeks, enough Republicans have shifted their tone to give hope that a true compromise can be found.

**Fixing current infrastructure will take at least 45 billion dollars**
**Hammerman 6/18** [Luke Hammerman, writer for the observer, Wasted Money, “Wasted Time: U.S Lags Behind on Infrastructure”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://observer.com/author/luke-hammerman/]]</span>
Who wants to spend tax money on new roads and bridges and infrastructure? Not the U.S.! We hate taxes here, after all. The U.S. slowed down to from fifth to 24th in a ranking of infrastructure quality on a global level, according to a report released by the Council of Foreign Relations. And quality is not the only thing slowing down. Time and fuel wasted in traffic congestion cost the country $101 billion—or $713 per commuter in 2010. The percentage of economic growth in 2011 would have been .2 percentage points higher had the necessary infrastructure maintenance and improvements been made, according to the report, which was the first first installment of the Renewing America Report and Scorecard series. The answer? More money! The immediate cost of fixing the roads, bridges and railroads cannot be done with the $48 billion the government invests, but needs an increase of at least 60 percent. The report warns that the longer the government waits to fix the transit systems in place the cost ticks upwards.


**Spending kills the economy in this climate**
Conor **Murphy**, graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University with a degree in political science, **8/7/2011** ["Dark economic times ahead," http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/political-pro-con/2011/aug/7/debt-federal-reserve-bernake-obama/]
While it is obvious that this market uncertainty is almost exclusively related to the national debt, the Treasury Department chalked it up to a flawed analysis and a 2 trillion dollar error. It appears that the new debt deal has scared investors and convinced the S&P that we cannot pay our bills. They're quite right. In an ideal world, this crisis might provide our elected officials enough evidence to realize that current policy is not working, but these are the same people who voted for TARP, the bank bailouts, the auto bailouts, and the stimulus bill. It should be no surprise that they assumed the debt deal would solve all of our problems. This is the kind of incompetence that Washington has seen from both parties for many years, and anyone who claims that the two parties are different should take a look at public policy for the last decade. The fix to this problem is no secret. Economists from the Austrian school and supporters of the free market know exactly what needs to be done, but no one is listening to them. Congress needs to make real cuts to spending, and not just cuts to proposed increases. Those are not real cuts, and yet we keep getting told that this deal will help reduce the debt. We may have avoided a default, but we are well on our way to an even bigger problem; a collapse of the dollar. With the Federal Reserve weakening the value of the dollar, the chance of a depression grows more likely everyday. Ben Bernanke and the rest of those at the Fed believe that keeping interest rates low is the best medicine for this ailing economy, but it is actually the poison making us grow weaker and weaker. When interest rates are below natural market value people make decisions that they wouldn't make normally, and when the crash comes it'll be too late. Printing money out of thin air will also do nothing but devalue the dollar and place an unseen tax on the American people who don't have the advantage of being bailed out by the federal government. If the dollar crashes, hyper inflation will set in and money will no longer even be worth the paper it is printed on. Assuming the United States wishes to avoid what happened to Germany in 1923, elected officials will have to look long and hard at fiscal policy and the role of the Federal Reserve when it comes to monetary policy. President Obama will almost certainly continue to downplay this action taken by S&P. There will be name calling, back stabbing and lies that will circle around this incident. The President is very much in danger of losing public support, and if he is not careful he will lose in 2012. Obama needs to understand not just what the problem is, but what is causing the problem. This event will most likely result in even more market regulation, the very cause of the financial meltdown. But unless the President wakes up tomorrow channeling the spirit of Barry Goldwater and suddenly understands free market economics, nothing will change. In the last few months, the S&P has begun to figure out what Austrian school free market economists have known for a while. The United States cannot keep going further into debt and expect to walk away unscathed. This action will only make the next economic downturn even worse. Kicking the can down the road has prolonged our economic problems for a while, but President Obama and the Congress are running out of road and they still don't see the cliff at the end.

**Economic decline causes war**
Mathew **Harris**, PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council, **and** Jennifer **Burrows**, Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit, April 2009 [“Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]]</span>]
Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]